ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e44	The representative, Kari Henriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate for Eastfold, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is now taking the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Ingarill Olsen from 10 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Steinar Karlstrøm, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e74	Steinar Karlstrøm is present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 6 March 2020: ‘The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 6 March 2020 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Anne Karin Olli shall be appointed, with effect from 16 March 2020, acting as State Secretary to the State Council, Linda Hofstad Helleland, Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. Self-employed Raymond Robertsen is appointed State Secretary for the State Council of Linda Hofstad Helleland in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, with effect from 16 March 2020.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. As a result of the changes made by the State Secretarys, Anne Karin Olli is proposed as an alternate representative to meet under the authorised parental leave granted by Marianne Haukland from 16 March onwards. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e104	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e109	On behalf of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I will make proposals to evacuate children and vulnerable refugees from Greece to Norway and to support and contribute to the humanitarian solution announced by the German government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e114	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e119	Red suggests relieving Greece and helping children in refugee camps in the Greek islands.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e124	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e142	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e157	Let me start by thanking you for the opportunity to come to Stortinget to explain the status and management of the outbreak of the coronavirus. On 31 December 2019, the health authorities of Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China, notified a build-up of cases of pneumonia of unknown origin. On January 9th this year, the PRCI reported that a new coronavirus was the cause of the pneumonia. The World Health Organisation declared on 30 January this year that this is an international public health crisis, but the World Health Organisation has still not defined the outbreak as a pandemic. Globally, the number of confirmed infections this weekend was 100,000. The disease now covers almost the whole European region of the World Health Organisation. Over 100 countries have reported confirmed cases, and the number is increasing. Italy has the largest ongoing outbreak, but the number of cases is also increasing in large countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Austria, Germany and Spain. In line with the National Health Emergency Plan, the Health Directorate was given responsibility for national coordination of health sector response on the day following the WHO declared the international public health crisis, 31 January. On the same day, the new corona virus was defined as a public infectious disease. It granted extended powers to the Health Directorate and to the municipalities under the IPD Act. This was more than three weeks before the first person in Norway tested positive for a test after having been in the affected area of China. To date, the Public Health Institute has tested more than 3000 people in Norway. The new coronary virus is a previously unknown virus, but has certain genetic similarities with the sars virus, which also belongs to the coronary virus family. The disease, as we know, is caused mainly by drip infection – as in cold and influenza – by the transmission of viruses from the airways of infected persons with symptoms of disease. The new coronary virus leads to respiratory infection and can cause anything from mild symptoms to more severe disease. Fever and sore throat have been reported in people with mild disease. Some have been diagnosed with pneumonia. Serious lung failure and death occur. Information on risk factors in the sick is currently limited, but serious illness and death are most often seen in the elderly and people with underlying diseases. The World Health Organisation estimates the incubation period from 1 to 14 days. International cooperation is central to the national management of the epidemic. The World Health Organisation manages and coordinates the overall global response in line with the International Health Regulations. Norwegian health authorities manage the outbreak in dialogue with the World Health Organisation, the EU and in line with the sector’s contingency plans. Norway’s participation in European health preparedness cooperation is important for our response. The European Agency for Disease Prevention (ECDC), of which Norway is a member, is central to the monitoring of infectious diseases in Europe. Through the EU Health Safety Committee, Norway participates in telephone meetings where countries provide information on the status of the outbreak and the national measures taken. The Committee is also working to harmonise communication measures aimed at the population of the various Member States. There is also close cooperation at Nordic level. The public health institution has close contact with its counterparts in the Nordic countries on professional assessments, case information exchange, the introduction of new measures, etc. Global health security depends on the availability of emergency response capacities in all countries. Norway has so far contributed to the Global Response Work of the World Health Organisation. The government is working for more countries to strengthen their efforts in this work. But the international research effort on the coronary virus is very extensive. Through the vaccine organisation CEPI, Norway has taken a leading role in the development of a vaccine against the virus. CEPI has established four different partnerships on vaccine development and plans to start the first human safety study this month. The government has increased support for CEPI by 36 million. kr in connection with this outbreak, and I myself have been in telephone contact with foreign colleagues to try to get more money for the CEPI. We still don't have a full overview of how much of the infected people get seriously sick of this virus. Preliminary figures may indicate that approx. 80 pst. of those who get sick, have a mild course of disease. In particular, the elderly and those with underlying diseases are at high risk of serious illness. The Public Health Institute has so far asked the health service to prepare for a medium pandemic scenario, i.e. the same scenario as in the national emergency plans since 2014. The Public Health Institute is now working on a new, updated risk assessment and a more precise planning scenario to estimate the nature of the burden that healthcare should be prepared to handle. On Monday, yesterday, a web seminar was held for the intensive settings in Norway, and the new scenarios were discussed. In this scenario, it is outlined that it should be planned that 22,000 people will be hospitalised and that about 22,000 people will be hospitalised. Intensive treatment is required for 5 500 patients. The same scenario says that at the top 1 700 will be inserted, 600 of these in intensive care. I will come back to the capacity of our hospitals later in the presentation. It is underlined that this is not a forecast, but a scenario it is considered appropriate to plan for. There is currently no vaccine or specific treatment against the disease. The last update from the Institute of Public Health, 9 March at 9 a.m. 18 shows that 192 people have tested positive for coronaviruses in Norway. 134 of these cases have been infected abroad, 55 cases have been infected in Norway, and for 3 the site is under investigation. Most people have mild symptoms. The Health Directorate confirmed at 1 p.m. 08.30 today that six patients are hospitalized. Although Norwegian healthcare is well organised and has good competence, an epidemic or a large-scale pandemic will lead to a challenging situation. We are currently working to ensure adequate supplies for the service, and we are planning for increased capacity in the service, especially in intensive care. For example, we see that access to protective equipment is a challenge that was early identified as a risk area and is now being addressed both nationally and internationally. In accordance with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, we have also started cooperation with industry nationally to find solutions. Health authorities have been prepared for the virus to come to Norway. The Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate have prepared themselves with the healthcare system and have put in place planned measures to monitor the situation. Regional health establishments are responsible for providing specialist health services to those who become ill by the virus. Municipalities have similar responsibilities for providing the necessary health and care services to all residents of the municipality. The municipality must also track down the infection and take measures to prevent further spread. The Public Health Institute advises and assists the municipalities in this work. In addition, the Public Health Institute keeps an overview of the epidemiological situation at national and international level and is the reference laboratory for testing for coronaviruses. On 1 March, the new Board of Quarantine for Health Care Professionals came. All health care staff who have been in areas with persistent spread of the corona virus shall be at home from work for 14 days after returning. The Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute and the health authorities of the other Nordic countries focus on the protection of vulnerable groups, extended testing of healthcare professionals with patient contact and testing of all those coming from areas with persistent infection. Work on the epidemic takes place along two tracks: a path of infection protection to reduce the spread and a track of treatment to prevent deaths among the seriously ill. The aim of the anti-infectious strategy is to postpone the national spread of covid-19 for as long as possible and to try to slow down the spread, so that the epidemic spreads over a longer period of time and less infection. Travel advice has been issued to areas with a high spread of infection. Furthermore, home quarantine has been introduced for all those who have been in the outbreak areas during the last 14 days. Persons who are diagnosed with coronavirus infection are isolated at home or in hospitals, depending on the severity of the disease, and close contacts are placed in home quarantine and followed up. The course of treatment is followed by preparing health and care services to treat a larger number of seriously ill people. We scale up capacity, especially in the treatment of intensive patients. We are also postponing planned treatment to extend the capacity. Just as with the annual influenza, we cannot avoid death, but the aim is to avoid death because we cannot provide good enough health care. Hospitals have a good initial capacity to deal with serious illness. However, we need to plan for what can happen in serious cases. A mapping under the direction of the Health Directorate shows that it is approx. 400 to 450 intensities in daily use in Norwegian hospitals. 200 additional places may be provided in an emergency situation. 1200-1400 is the maximum number of available intensities in a critical situation where all available respirators are used, which at the same time will mean a temporary stop in planned operations in all hospitals. There will be a difficult situation for healthcare, but by mobilising and disposing of available resources, the services seem to be able to cope with the scenarios described by the Public Health Institute so far. The municipality is a local infectious authority. This means that it is the responsibility of the municipality to assess the situation and take measures to limit the prevalence of an outbreak, to take measures to limit the further spread of infection and to take care of those who have been infected. Municipalities have specific powers to control infectious diseases such as the imposition of isolation and quarantine, the closure of schools, kindergartens and other establishments and the closure of events with many people, if deemed necessary. The Public Health Institute advises and works closely with the municipalities on this. Municipalities should also provide treatment for those who become ill and do not need hospital treatment. Especially important to think about in this context are patients and users at home and at home. These are individuals who are particularly vulnerable to the coronary virus because of old age and because they already have many diseases. The Institute for Public Health has given advice in the article «Health and infectious diseases against covid-19». Dedicated physicians are a very important part of municipal health and care services in the treatment of sick people and in providing advice to patients belonging to the risk groups. The government has therefore suspended the requirement of medically certified absence, the so-called absence rule, in school, in order to reduce the burden on the medical examiners. On 31 January, the Health Directorate asked the county councillors and the regional health establishments to follow up the obligations of local authorities and health establishments to draw up a plan for the protection against infectious diseases under the infectious diseases law. The Health Directorate then asked the country's county councillors to obtain an overview of infectious plans in the municipalities and provide assistance where necessary. At the same time, regional health establishments were asked to ensure that health businesses have updated their infectious diseases plans. The Directorate also asked the county councillors to take immediate action, possibly providing assistance to municipalities that do not have an updated and effective infectious protection plan. In the first round of February 19th, the county officials reported that there were deficiencies in the plans for the protection of infectious diseases in between one and seven municipalities per county. As too few municipalities had coordinated emergency plans with the nearest health companies, the counties were assigned to follow up the municipalities with a lack of plans in their counties. The Health Directorate is now holding weekly meetings with the county officials, who are also taking part in the Employment Service. Attention is paid to the levelling status of municipalities, in particular that they have infection protection equipment and competence for sampling and cooperation on emergency plans with the nearest health care establishment or hospital. This work has meant that the plans are now in place in most municipalities. Svalbard Emergency Council – Longyearbyen Hospital, Longyearbyen Local Government, Employment and relevant local actors – has started planning to develop a plan for the management of possible corona virus infection at Svalbard. The Longyearbyen hospital carries out the tasks of the local authority doctor under the Code of Disease Protection, and these shall be carried out in consultation with the Longyearbyen local government and the Employment Officer. This means that the hospital is responsible for individual medical follow-up, including contact with voluntarily isolated at home, in order to follow up and monitor the state of health. In a situation where the infected person needs intensive health care in hospitals, either because of the risk of infection or because of the complexity of the disease and the need for medical devices or monitoring that the Svalbard hospital cannot offer, these shall be evacuated to hospitals on the mainland. Work is being done to put in place a procedure for transporting Norwegian citizens living abroad to Norway. This procedure will also include evacuation from Svalbard to mainland. The outbreak of the coronary virus in China affects both the availability and consumption of medicinal products, medical devices and protective equipment. Norway is dependent on imports to meet the need for medicinal products, medical devices and protective equipment. The market and supply chains for all these products are global. On 28 February, a Royal Resolution was adopted authorising the Ministry of Health and Health to lay down rules for ensuring the availability of medicinal products, medical devices and other devices, such as: orodispersible, as a result of the outbreak of the coronavirus. The Royal Resolution allows the Ministry of Health and Welfare to introduce notification obligations, rations, restrictions on sales or export bans in order to have an overview of and ensure access to those products. Access to medicinal products is, in general, a challenge in Norway and Europe, and it was also before the outbreak of the coronary virus. A significant proportion of the production of active substances and intermediate products takes place in China and other low-cost countries in Asia. The EU Agency for Medicinal Products, EMA, informed on Friday 6 March that, at present, access to medicinal products in the EU/EEA is not affected by the coronavirus, but access to medicinal products is, as I said, a general challenge. Nevertheless, there is a lot of uncertainty, and we can see that the availability of medicinal products is affected by the outbreak of the coronary virus and by the fact that much of the drug production is in China. In order to respond to trends in the build-up of drug stocks in Europe and the world as a result of the coronary virus outbreak, the Ministry of Health and Welfare adopted on 6 March a regulation in the Royal Resolution of 28 February. The rules help to ensure that the medicinal products that are actually in Norway and intended for the Norwegian population remain in the country and are distributed as equally as possible when necessary to ensure that the Norwegian population has access to medicinal products. The obligation to notify medicinal products wholesalers for certain medicinal products may be imposed before parallel exports can take place. The Agency may prohibit parallel exports on the basis of the total stock status of the country. The Agency also has access by regulation to the provision of medicinal products from wholesalers and pharmacists. The need for rationalisation is continuously assessed by the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Directorate-General for Health. Increased demand and consumption of medical devices and protective equipment mean that the need for this type of product cannot be met either nationally or globally. We also see examples of countries with production, or with international stocks of such goods imposing export bans in order to satisfy their own needs. For the purposes of access to tests, the Ministry of Health and Health has today established changes to the existing legislation whereby self-made medical devices in health care establishments can now contribute to the joint testing and analysis capacity of the country. Hospital HF is designated to purchase medicinal products, medical devices and protective equipment both for municipal health and care services and for specialist health services. In this way, both acquisition and delivery will be coordinated in a more appropriate way. Following the last Friday release of the mandate provisions of the Health Protection Act, the healthcare service has the possibility to take over protective equipment that is available for sale in the retail trade or for business use. On March 3rd, I invited you to a meeting with the business community to identify what is available from protective equipment in Norwegian companies, and discuss the possibility of Norwegian production. Many Norwegian establishments use protective equipment that can also be used by health and care services. NHO, Serke, Norway Health Tech, Melanor and Roche participated. Business is positive and wants to contribute. It was stated in the meeting that there are no large stocks of such equipment in Norwegian businesses. Several businesses, after the meeting, have said that they are able to transform the production and manufacture protective equipment for health and care services. Health Directorate and Hospital Purchases HF will follow-up these initiatives further. Furthermore, we are now also looking at the possibility of joining the EU's joint procurement initiative for medicinal products, medical devices, protective equipment and other health measures, The Joint Procurement Agreement for medical countermeasures. As mentioned above, according to the IPD, the Health Directorate and the municipalities have very wide powers for, among others. to impose restrictions and bans on assembly, to impose isolation and quarantine and to close down establishments. The threshold will be high for interventional measures involving the closure and closure of, for example: schools or kindergartens, and a proportionality assessment shall always be carried out. This could be done, for example, by: have major societal implications if people have to be at home from work because of closed kindergartens and schools. It will also weaken the ability of health services to deal with the situation, as more people have to be at home with young children. The relevant infectious disease protection measure shall be based on clear medical grounds, be necessary for the protection of the infection and appear appropriate after an overall assessment, and shall focus on the voluntary involvement of those affected. Nevertheless, such measures will also be used if deemed necessary. We have seen more examples of this, for example: in Holmenkollen this weekend and a number of other major events that the municipalities have chosen to say that one should not carry out. The Biocidal Incident Emergency Committee will discuss the restriction of audiences at events later today, and new advice may follow. In line with the National Health Emergency Plan, as said by the Health Directorate on 31 January of this year, responsibility for national coordination of health sector interventions was delegated. The Directorate-General for Health and the Institute for Public Health cooperate closely and coordinate their efforts with other sectors, including: through that Biological Incident Preparedness Committee. On the same day, 31 January, the new corona virus was defined as a disease of general concern, a decision granting the Health Directorate extended powers under the IPD Act. The Act on the Protection of Infectious Diseases is a Emergency Act and has many powers to lay down rules if necessary. One example, as I have already mentioned, is that by the Royal Resolution, it was decided to delegate powers under the Code of Disease Protection to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in order to be able to take prompt action to ensure access to medicinal products, medical devices and protective equipment in Norway. In order to ensure that health authorities have sufficient means to deal with the situation, the government triggered the last Friday mandate provisions of the Health Protection Act. This means that if it is necessary, the provisions will allow for, among other things. to request, order personnel and dispose of the resources of the health and care service. This also applies to: on the acquisition of civil capacity for healthcare use. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides official travel councils based on an overall assessment of the situation of travellers in the country as a result of the outbreak of the virus. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Travel Council builds, inter alia: on expert advice on infectious diseases from the Institute of Public Health. The public health institute shall provide disease protection councils for the purposes of travel, maintenance and overview of countries and areas with widespread transmission of coronaviruses. This list shall be used, inter alia: as a starting point for advice and follow-up measures to health care staff. Globally, the situation is evolving and, therefore, the advice will be updated on an ongoing basis. It is important to engage at any time in the relevant infectious control councils for the area to which any intention to travel is addressed. The aim of these recommendations is to reduce the risk of infection by the Nordics and to take the virus home to Norway. If an infected person is suspected on board an aeroplane, the Public Health Authority normally contacts the carrier directly to gain access to the passenger list in order to detect any infected person and then initiate infection protection measures. This practice has been based on the voluntary provision of the information by airlines, but some airlines have requested the basis of their decision. Accordingly, the Ministry of Health and Welfare laid down on 2 March a separate regulation, based on the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, to enable the Institute of Public Health, without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy, to require the necessary contact details and seating positions of passengers and employees of transport companies for the purpose of detection of infection. The responsibility for preparedness in healthcare is governed by the Health and Social Protection Act and the Protection against Infectious Diseases Act and other health legislation. Municipalities and regional health establishments are required by law to have contingency plans, including vector plans, in order to ensure sound health and care services in the event of crises, disasters and wars. The legislation also contains specific powers for use in emergency situations that have now been triggered. The roles and responsibilities of the authorities and other actors, as well as their interaction, are described in the national health emergency plan, which is the national framework for all types of health crises. The plan describes how the efforts of the health and care services can be managed and coordinated at national level, so that the overall resources can be given a holistic priority. The IPD provides broad powers for, inter alia: the local community and the National Health Directorate in a situation such as this. The coronavirus is legally defined as a general dangerous infectious disease and the outbreak is defined as serious, which means that the extended powers of the infectious disease law are now applicable. While the national emergency plan against outbreaks of serious communicable diseases is aimed primarily at managers, doctors and other health professionals in healthcare services, it is also relevant for other sectors affected. The national contingency plan for outbreaks of serious infectious diseases is a generic overall plan for the management of serious outbreaks of infection. It is based on existing legislation and is subordinate to the national health emergency plan. This plan was established in the autumn of 2019. Outbreaks of serious infectious diseases can have major societal implications across sectors. The need for national coordination is therefore high. On 2 March, the Ministry of Health and Welfare was appointed as head of department responsible for coordinating the departments. The Ministry of Health and Welfare established in 2019 the Emergency Committee against Biological Events. The aim of the sample is to facilitate the convergence and coordination of key actors in their efforts to protect life, health, the environment and other important societal interests in biological events. The Emergency Committee has members from the health and care sectors, the justice sector, the Defence and other important sectors. The preparedness committee had its first meeting on 27 January and is now meeting twice a week. In addition to these plans, we benefit from the experience gained in dealing with other serious infectious diseases, such as the Ebola crisis and the influenza pandemic in 2009 and 2010. The experience from that time was thoroughly discussed here in Stortinget, in Melding. Article 16 for 2012–2013, Prepared for pandemic influenza. Following the Ebola crisis in 2014 and 2015, Norway has taken the initiative to review the organisation of the World Health Organisation in the event of major outbreaks of infection. We have also taken the initiative to establish the previously mentioned CEPI. We have developed national contingency plans for outbreaks of serious infectious diseases, and we have established the Emergency Response Committee against biological incidents. This should make us better rusty to deal with these kinds of situations. The Directorate for Health and the Institute for Public Health have been concerned with providing knowledge-based and up-to-date information to the population and that the measures are based on professional advice. The situation is constantly evolving, both nationally and globally. Councils therefore need to be updated on an ongoing basis. This means that advice can be changed from one day to the next, which is, of course, challenging to communicate to the population. The impression then may be that health authorities have not been consistent. However, as both the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute have always clearly communicated: information and advice will be adjusted and updated according to the development and knowledge of the outbreak and infection. Health authorities have informed in several channels to reach out to the population as far as possible. The Health Directorate sent out early information material on the corona virus and relevant measures to airfields, ports, train stations, customs, police, pharmacies, schools and kindergartens. Throughout the period, the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate have updated their own websites and health Norway.com with information on the outbreak of the virus with advice to the general population and to health professionals in particular. This also includes the Roadside Infection Council, as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' continuous monitoring of the situation and updating its travel councils. Information is available in several languages. Since the first case was discovered in Norway, the Public Health Institute has sent out daily news reports on the number of people infected. For the past few weeks, both the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health have had daily press conferences. This is how leaders and professionals have been available to the media with the latest news. They have also participated in a number of newscasts and debates. The Health Directorate established on 28 February a telephone service for the public where one can ask questions that are not answered via healthnorge.no or fhi.no, but one cannot consult about illness. On Monday 2 March, the Health Directorate released a film on YouTube with children and young people as a target group. Here Hermine asks 13-year-old questions about the corona of Helen, who is a doctor in the Health Directorate. The film has been sent to all schools in Norway, and they have been invited to do so. to show it in educational, parent and social media contexts. It has also been sent to health companies and county officials, so that it can be disseminated in municipalities. Information to the population — and dialogue with the parties involved — has been a priority from day one. But we are in a difficult situation where much is uncertain and new knowledge belongs to us daily. Health authorities are closely monitoring the situation and are constantly assessing the need for new measures to limit the spread of infection and to ensure the capacity of the sector. There is still a very unresolved situation, also linked to the financial burden on those who have to deal with the health consequences of this situation. At the same time, health and care activities need to keep an overview of resource use. The government will return to Stortinget with any budgetary implications at a later date. But there may be deficiencies, so that we cannot diagnose and treat patients effectively enough. I will therefore put forward a royal resolution on Friday to ensure that there are two important reasons in particular. Firstly, the Health Directorate’s assessment is that funding for the analysis of the coronary virus is too low. We can't risk putting the laboratory capacity at risk. The relevant rate should therefore be amended as soon as possible. Secondly, Norway must prepare to build up stocks of critical medicinal products for health care and ensure the availability of reagents and other medical devices. With a Royal Resolution mandate, proper reimbursement may be provided for laboratory analyses and medicinal products, and medical devices may be purchased even if there is no budgetary coverage for this in the current budgetary decision. The virus has come to Norway. The Institute of Public Health now also considers that there is a high risk of spreading in Norway. The time for further development is uncertain, but it is planned for a scenario in which the current phase will continue for a few weeks before we move into a new phase with ever more import cases and clusters of domestic infection. After a while, we're getting a sustained local spread, and the main wave of the epidemic will be on and maybe last for a year. The overall objective of the protection of infectious diseases is to reduce the size of the epidemic and, in particular, to protect groups of the population at increased risk of severe progression. In the first stages, the goal is to postpone the onset of the epidemic of covid-19 as far as possible. In later phases, the aim is to slow the spread, so that the epidemic curve is deflated, the epidemic spreads over a longer period of time and fewer infections become total. At all stages, the perceived benefits of infectious diseases prevention measures must be balanced against their secondary effects on individuals and society in general and on health and healthcare in particular. At the current stage, the main focus is on preventing imports with travellers, detecting and isolating cases early, tracing and follow-up of contacts and good hygiene measures in the population. Measures to reduce contact frequency are most relevant once the epidemic has started. Good contingency plans are an important prerequisite for dealing with a challenging situation. At the same time, any situation we have not faced before will present new challenges. Norway and healthcare services are prepared to address such a challenge. Now we get to test this out. Every time we deal with these situations, there will be learning points and follow-up points, and we will also be able to make improvements along the way. It's still a time for everything. The overall evaluation we need to take at a later stage. Many people have wondered why we have not implemented more stringent and interventional measures in the past. The answer to this is that the measures must be based on professional advice, while at the same time explaining why the measures are taken. If the authorities choose to apply the most interventional measures early, we may be at risk of the population asking questions about the necessity and impact of these measures. This may lead to a lack of respect for the measures at the time when such intervention is actually necessary. As politicians, I think we all know that it may be tempting to come up with more stringent advice and measures to act – or on the other hand, it may also be tempting to give less advice to mitigate the consequences and reactions of the population and business. Both parts will be wrong. It is important that the measures are based on the best advice from our top professional authorities. In such a situation that we are now in and will be for a while, our society is also vulnerable to false news and attempts to influence from outside. Both the Police Security Service, the Intelligence Service and the National Security Authority have pointed out in recent years in their annual threat assessments the possibility that alien actors could try to spread false news and influence the population, which may weaken public confidence in the authorities. It is important that both we as governments and the population are aware that this can happen, and that it is used in a situation where our society is perceived as extra vulnerable. I have now given a thorough account of the situation and what are our plans for the future. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will hold a press conference on the economic impact on society later today. We have been committed to reaching the population with important contributions on what individuals can do to prevent disease. The vast majority will not experience it as very serious to get this disease, but it can have major consequences for the vulnerable groups. Societal preparedness in such a situation is also dependent on solidarity and good work among the whole population. It's about something as simple as washing your hands, coughing in the paper towel or the elbow hole and avoiding handshaking. We are all going to do this in solidarity with those of us who will not be able to get infected, and not least in solidarity with all those who work in the healthcare system who are now preparing for a very demanding and extraordinary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e325	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e330	I thank the Council of State for the presentation. It's a serious situation, with the spread of viruses. The spread is global, it has reached Norway, and it affects all parts of the country and all parts of Norwegian society. The knowledge we have today, as confirmed by the Council of State, is that it can take a long time, and it can be more serious. I would like to start by saying that in this situation, the government should know that it has the support and expectation of the Storting to take all measures to limit the spread of infection and to ensure that the infected and, most importantly, the vulnerable who become seriously ill are given the help they need. In response to written questions from me, the Prime Minister wrote on 4 March that the government ‘has what we need from powers, plans and financial resources to meet the challenge’. I assume that the government will come to Stortinget if this assessment should change. In Norway, health services are our main resource. It's for the caretaker, the medical officer and the hospital we go for advice, recommendations and, if necessary, treatment. I would like to express a special recognition to the staff in hospitals and in other parts of the health care system for the efforts they make at this difficult time. It can be more demanding in time to come. People with a health background outside the health system may be called on – they deserve our support. The Health Minister’s statement updated the situation and announced new measures by the authorities. I would like to comment on some issues based on the experience of handling up to today. Firstly, the question of the country’s preparedness to cope with epidemics and pandemics. Modern preparedness is not just about being equipped to face terror or military situations. A pandemic, a global spread of infection, has emerged in recent years as both possible and probable. Nevertheless, there is now a serious shortage of testing and protection equipment and the necessary medicinal products in Norway. The vulnerable situation was addressed by the Workers' Party and several other parties as late as last year. Nevertheless, we have experienced great vulnerability. Now the Council of State is asking for an authorisation to build up national stocks of medicines. You could ask yourself, why haven't we done it before? We will ask for a concrete plan to provide sufficient testing and protection equipment and to ensure the necessary medicines when we can now expect a strong increase in the number of infected. Secondly, hospital, municipality, enterprise and individual feedback is reminiscent of growing concerns and uncertainties associated with the issuing of various professional advice from different teams and the lack of uniform information from the authorities. The frameworks for testing vary from municipality to municipality. Quarantine practices may vary between municipalities and different workplaces. While Norwegian citizens are not advised to travel to Italy, they have flights with passengers from just northern Italy at Norwegian airports. In some places they are tested in tents; in others people are sitting in the waiting room of the municipal bodyguard. I want to bring up the words of State Council Höie from the time he was in opposition and commented on the handling of the swine flu in 2009. He said, ‘The question is whether it has been right for the municipalities to have all of this implemented in their own way, so that it is now very unclear to the population how they should deal with this.’ The report of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness at the time concluded that there was a need to improve uniform and clear communication. Experience leaves the impression that there is still room for improvement in these areas. There is too much variation between municipalities in terms of both capacity, experience and resources, but it is not too late to adjust the price. Stronger instruments and more marked advice and commitments may be required for people in Norway, for work and for private use. It is now announced that there will be clearer national leadership. It is time, and we expect this to be clarified quickly to the population, local and regional authorities and the different parts of the health system. We have to expect that the spread of the virus will move into a new phase where it will be more difficult to control its spread. Yesterday, the Public Health Institute presented a scenario that allows for up to 1700 cases in hospitals at the same time and needs up to 600 intensive hospitalisations at the same time. This will shift other planned treatment in hospitals, as the total capacity does not extend to. It's a very demanding situation for our hospitals. They need consistent management, clear leadership and – if necessary – financial support to carry out such tasks. Governments referred to many plans, regulations and regulations. What is needed now is a clearer uniform management. In addition to its health consequences, it has an impact on the economy, society and workplaces. The development requires clear answers from the authorities. The working party expects concrete measures that can relieve uncertainty and the fall in activity in exposed industries. Provision should be made for rapid changes to the legislation on laying-off which may prevent unnecessary dismissals. The liquidity of banks and businesses must be ensured, and municipalities and hospitals must be guaranteed financial freedom to discharge their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e361	Although health services in Norway are well organised and have a high level of competence, an epidemic with a large scale will, of course, create a challenging situation. As the Council of State has just stated, the government is working both to ensure adequate supplies for the service and to plan for increased capacity in the service — especially in intensive care. It is obvious that this requires considerable resources both financially and not least in terms of staff. Many health professionals already feel a greater burden, and there is reason to believe that it will be more. I expect the government to follow this up in the further work, which they have also announced. Norwegian authorities work closely with Nordic and European colleagues in the fight against the epidemic — and along two lines, as explained. The coronavirus, which is now defined as a general dangerous disease, results in the application of several powers of the infectious disease law and the possibility of several measures being taken. At both social and individual levels, different measures to prevent or discourage dissemination are now available. It is important to make proportionality assessments of the measures in order to ensure the use of appropriate tools. The measures are to be based on clear medical grounds, according to the Code of Disease Protection. It is necessary, for the protection of infection, that it appears appropriate and proportionate. Much of the discussion that is now going on, and some of the questions that appear, is in light of this. What measures are being taken? Why? And how? It's a balance art to hit so it really works right. There are many considerations to take, and here it is important to listen to our professional expertise, who work closely with international partners. In particular, clear communication is important. National health preparedness plan is the national framework for all types of health crises. In addition, there is a national emergency plan for outbreaks of a serious transmissible disease. It is directed primarily at teachers, doctors and other health professionals and was set in the autumn of 2019. Outbreaks of serious diseases can have major societal consequences. The need for national coordination is therefore great. As a result, the Emergency Response Committee was set up in 2019. The aim is to facilitate the convergence and coordination of key actors. The action plan for better infectious diseases, aimed at reducing health-related infections, is also aimed at improving the protection of infectious diseases. That plan was also established in 2019. So there is no lack of plans. Preparedness is to be prepared for the unforeseen. I'm drawing up various plans to show that we're prepared overall, but you can never quite know what's going to happen. The Council's presentation gives a good picture of the current situation, but no one knows what happens in the course of the process. What is the job now is to ensure that we are as secure as possible, and that is what we do most safely by learning from those who until now are harder hit by the epidemic, and by listening to our professional expertise. But there are learning points to include in the further work. When more people think that communication needs to be clearer, it's worth listening to it. It is only the recipient who can determine whether the message is clear enough. When there is such a large flow of information and news, even greater precision is required in delivery. It may seem that someone is already looking for scapegoats. So far there's only one, and we have to fight it together -- the coronary virus. Then we get to sum up what went well and less well in the fight against the virus, when the time is ripe for it. Then it is good to read what Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum wrote yesterday, which I put myself fully behind: "We who sit on the Storting are put there to serve people. One strength in our rule of the people is that, when necessary for the country, we help each other across party boundaries." Finally, I would like to wish the government, and not least all those who work in the healthcare system, to continue to be happy and to thank for their efforts so far in the fight against the virus outbreak – a virus outbreak we so far cannot see the scope of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e390	Let me first thank the Minister of Health for a good account and then thank all those who are now working night and day to deal with this situation. It is fully possible to understand that it is demanding, but there is also a serious situation that we all want to deal with with with with good measures to prevent further spread of infection. We also all have a responsibility not to raise the mood and let party politics go into this. Rather, the time has come to have confidence that the authorities are doing their job in a good and reliable way. Nevertheless, the main concern of the Progress Party is the absence of overall management. The handling seems – unfortunately – a bit random. There are too many examples of tackling similar problems from municipalities to municipalities. We know that there has been varying quality in the emergency plans of the municipalities, and that many municipalities have not had plans in place either. I noticed that the Minister of Health now said that it had become significantly better, and that in that case is absolutely necessary and good. It is in any case that the population, the population, becomes uncertain when the advice is not clear. It seems a little random who gets tested when. The quarantine councils that are being given appear to be a bit random. The events that are cancelled appear to be a bit random. An example was Holmenkollen this weekend, where one decided that one would not have the audience up for fear of too high density on the T-course. But there's also a very high density on the T-course in rush traffic. So it's a little bit difficult sometimes to understand the advice given. Then I notice that someone thinks this should be a discussion about making more plans. I disagree. Plans we have more than enough of, now it's primarily about management and effective exercise of management. It simply cannot be up to each individual to make these types of assessments. We must have clear, clear advice and leadership from the authorities, as the rest of us follow up in everyday life. This is really what this is all about: security in the everyday life of the population. Then we have to look at similar practices across the country in all municipalities, in all hospitals, at all airports. I will also be allowed to express an additional concern for vulnerable groups and the age of the country. They are, as the Minister of Health said, particularly vulnerable. Then it's about giving clear, clear advice on going to health services or nursing homes. But it's also about what kind of advice and guidance you give to the local elderly who may need more clear professional advice on how to act now to avoid getting into a situation of infection. Several health professionals express concerns about the lack of infectious disease protection equipment, perhaps in particular lack of respiratory protection. It is absolutely essential that we get control of quickly. But as I said, in such situations, it is important that we have confidence that the national authorities are doing their job. There is a situation now where this trust is fragile in many places, and it requires the government to take clear action now. We all understand that these advices must be ongoing and that they can be changed continuously, but it is even more important that they are unambiguously and equally throughout the country, so that media postings, where different practices are seen, do not create uncertainty among the population. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I look forward to the press conference for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance later today. I expect that there will be very clear, clear measures to limit the impact of the country's businesses now in the process of being affected. Many now see blood red numbers on the bottom line, and then it is absolutely necessary for the government to come up with measures such as more flexible permitting rules, to look at the possibilities of making changes in taxes and taxes and to speed up projects that can create activity around the country. We expect that the measures are now ready and presented, and that they can be dealt with quickly by the Storting, if necessary, so that they can be operationalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e409	Thank you to the Council of State for a realistic and good outcome. I would like to stress that, in such a situation, we should and must have confidence in the health authorities and the health services that underpin the various decisions that have to be taken in this situation. We also need to have great respect for how demanding this is, both for health authorities and, of course, for all those working in health services. We are reminded that infections pose a significant threat to global public health, and that outbreaks of infectious diseases occur more frequently and more frequently. Then it is important to have a good health care, which is something other than patient treatment. This means that we should protect both individuals and society against unnecessary illness, and that we have the capacity to deal also in a crisis situation. I think we in Norway have a well-developed public health system that means that we are in a different situation than a good number of other countries when it comes to dealing with such epidemics. At the same time, of course, it will also challenge us when we have such an epidemic. It's said, as it's true, that it also challenges each of us to take a joint responsibility to act in such a way that we don't infect others. It is also said that we even have an industry that sets up. One of these is Janus, who has said that they want to re-prioritize their production to if possible produce mouthbands in large quantities. This factory was otherwise an emergency plant for the authorities until the 1980s – perhaps something to think about in retrospect. In 2009–2010 we had swine flu, and after that we received a big message of preparedness for pandemic influenza. There's a bunch of things there that I want to record again. The evaluation found that one of the concerns was that the relationship between the Ministry of Health and Health, the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health was too little elucidating, and one also noted that the role of the staff was ineffective. Clear action was taken in the main messages, including: that the government should ensure the coordination of information from central health authorities to the operational health service, which is also being discussed now, I note. It was said that one had to draw up updated emergency plans both in municipalities and in health care companies, as I understand from the Council of State is seen in the work. It was also said that one should do a screening of emergency facilities for hospitals with exceptional needs for intensive respiratory treatment and for laboratory capacity. I notice that the Council of State agreed that the number of intensification sites could be expanded by a priority, and I am delighted. I could want him to also say something about the respiratory capacity itself, how it is assessed, and the laboratory diagnostics capacity, if not mapped beforehand. Then we also had up to treatment change in the infectious disease law. Then the Center Party was concerned about the feedback that came in, that the promise was still not clear enough about the division of roles between the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute. It is now the case that the Directorate for Health is taking advice from the Institute for Public Health and is to make a self-assessment of the advice itself. It can go very well, but there might be something lying there that you might have to look at, at least in retrospect. We also had a proposal for a national action plan on non-health care. But all in all, we are going to complete all the measures that the Council of State has announced, and I want both him and the health service to close down in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e426	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good deal. We in SV have full confidence in the health services provided by health authorities at all times. We also want to be aware that we are ready at any time, at any time, to step in if necessary, with measures, promises, etc., which can remedy the situation. We agree that it is a good strategy to take measures that prevent the spread of infection to a large extent and that it is spread across the longest possible period to avoid the most negative consequences. Our questions and concerns are linked to more structural things – because there are some challenges. We can say that we're missing equipment. And we can say -- that's a constant problem -- that we're missing drugs. Therefore, it is positive that the government is now proposing that one should increase the lab capacity and that one should establish a medical emergency room. This is something we in SV have suggested over a longer period of time, and we think that one should go even further to deal with the current crisis when it comes to medicine. The State should lead and produce medicine itself, and a StateMed should be established. We think that the situation we're in now, it'll update the problem further when we see the capacity and the big shortages we have here. Capacity is also very small in hospitals and in primary hospitals. The budget has ensured that hospitals have been underfunded over a long period of time, which means that the capacity to handle these types of events is weakened. The same applies to the state of primary care. We asked a few weeks since questions about the state council would be willing to establish a system, a security, for the municipalities, so that they could get funds beyond what they have today, that they have a certainty when they are planning. The answer from the state council to that was no. When one sees the very decentralised structure we have on this issue, where professionals locally have to make a lot of decisions, it is especially that the municipalities are not better able to meet this extraordinary situation by knowing that they have been given exceptional means of access. The alternative for them is to plan according to today's situation. We are concerned about municipalities like this. The Moscows, who initially have a very serious economic situation – what will happen if they become part of this problem and have to deal with it locally? There are several cases where we see that the decentralised decision-making authority is problematic. What happened at Ullevål was unclear, one that took unfortunate decisions, the advice was unclearly handled. A plane from North Italy came to Tromsø with one person, and it turned out that it was the municipal doctor in Tromsø who was responsible for handling that situation and possibly stopping that plane. The health director was surprised that the municipal board allowed the plane to land. And it wasn't clear if the local councillor realized that it was that person's role to take that kind of decision. We have challenges when it comes to having clear lines, which have appeared in several of the articles here – clear information from health authorities, so that one has clear advice that one can follow around the country. The alternative is that one local is aware that one has this role, that one is able to handle the role, and that there is capacity to do it. We're going to follow developments carefully, and I'll once again stress that we're ready at any time. We also have great confidence in health assessments. We are concerned about the capacity and understanding of roles, understanding of responsibilities, in this system. This comes at the same time as crises in other sectors, which makes the need for wide-ranging action very important. We also look forward to addressing the economic challenges that this entails in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e441	I would also like to thank the Minister of Health for a very solid, thorough and comprehensive statement, which is credible and reliable by the fact that the emergency response system we have is mobilised, based on the plans available. Then there must be an assessment later, based on an evaluation, whether the plans we have been good enough, whether they have been good enough in all municipalities, and whether there has been good enough access to medicines, protective equipment and other medical devices. There has to be an assessment and an evaluation we have to look at afterwards. I am pleased that the Minister of Health also attaches as much importance to what has been done early in the situation we have been in, to update and make the plans that exist, as good as possible, and also to mobilising the municipalities, and that we are now also looking at opportunities to expand access to protective equipment, which I believe is a global concern many have. But I have great confidence that the government is doing what is possible in this field, where we are now. As the Minister of Health also pointed out, given what is not a forecast, but a scenario, we are still early in a situation that can quickly develop into something quite different in just a short time. I think there are many people who feel a lot of uncertainty, so the flow of information we need is important – that it's up-to-date, that the system knows what it's doing, that we're putting the health advice, which is highly trusted. But I believe that the people, and not least those who are responsible outside the community, need good advice on what to do when they are going to make their choices, whether there are events or meeting activities – or how to make the best possible contribution to avoiding a pandemic and keeping this virus infection as low as possible. Information will be crucial, especially as it evolves, and as the measures to be reviewed will also need to develop. Then I assume that the press conference that comes after is the first feedback on what is a broader societal consequence of what we're up to. It is clear that both the measures implemented internationally, the resources put in place and the economic consequences of this will have a much greater societal significance over time, which must be managed jointly by the government and also in cooperation with the Grand Duchy in the future. I will end by saying that I think it was a reliable and solid statement. There's a lot of uncertainty out there, so it's absolutely vital that the flow of information is good, especially as the situation escalates. It is important to stress the seriousness of the situation, especially for vulnerable groups, who with this pandemic are really at risk of life and health. And then we have to, both as a population and as a society, follow up on the situation ahead and follow up on how it evolves. We have to put all the effort into being able to achieve the goal of dealing with this pandemic, ready to keep the rate of infection down and keep it down over time, so we get through this situation. Then we also have to learn from it afterwards to stand even better rusted when new situations arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e456	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a thorough and good presentation. We're in an international public health crisis and a fight against an outbreak of coronavirus. The outbreak has already had social consequences. We are now in a situation that requires a lot of health services. Italy is in a situation where they cannot treat everyone, where they must give priority to patients with the greatest chance of survival. It's tough, and an Italian intensive game compares it to a warlike state. I therefore find it reassuring to hear the Minister of Health's statement on the situation in our country. I understand the Council of State so that our health and care services can cope with the scenarios that the Institute of Public Health has so far described by mobilising available resources. On 31 January, the Directorate for Health was delegated responsibility for national coordination of health sector action. On the same day, the new corona virus was defined as a ‘generally contagious disease’. The decision granted extended powers to the Health Directorate and to the municipalities under the IPD, and the country’s citizens have gained access to a lot of information in the post-day period. Good information, general information and advice is what creates security and counteracts undue fear. Fear is very contagious, and loss of trust reinforces the need to have someone to trust. That is why I am pleased that most municipalities now have plans to protect against infectious diseases in place. International cooperation is now important, and I am pleased that Norway has taken a leading role in developing a vaccine against the virus. Norway is actively participating in the Nordic, European and global cooperation in the fight against the outbreak. And as I understand it, we are well equipped to meet the challenges here. Trust is something you can't decide. “Trust is the god drug that keeps the patient and the doctor together,” said social physician Per Fugelli. Now the task of the health authorities is to create such trust in the people, and the conditions of trust are tested every day. Health first, but I look forward to the briefing of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance on the economic consequences. Of course, the Christian People's Party shall be involved and contribute to making the necessary adjustments and putting in place the measures that will enable the social wheels to continue to roll and walk. Finally, I would like to encourage the following: as far as it is sound, keep the wheels of society going. We're going to listen to and follow what's being given by health services. We must avoid spreading unnecessary fear. And not least, we must be solidarity with those who are most exposed to a serious course of coronary infection. The top of egoism today must not be to follow the quarantine and other advice given if you have been in an area of chronic infection. We need to acquire the knowledge that is necessary, and we need to cooperate. We're going to cough in the elbow or in paper towels, wash our hands and avoid handshaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e475	There is now a great deal of concern among people for the coronary virus. It's an open question whether we have enough capacity in the healthcare system if the infection continues to spread. In our view, it took too long for the Minister of Health to notify us of the arrival of national advice. Infection detection in Norway showed that more than 50 pst. the cases can be traced back to the Nordics who have been in Italy. While the Norwegians are then advised not to travel to Italy, aircraft land on Torp that comes directly from a region shut down by the Italian authorities, without any infection measures being taken against the passengers arriving on the plane. There is good reason to believe that people are worried when they read on the one hand how dangerous the virus can be, and on the other hand, such a lack of action in Norway. The manufacture of medicinal products is very low in Norway. We have become increasingly dependent on imports from other countries. In November, the opposition on the Storting would change this, but all the proposals we made were voted down by the bourgeois parties. The current crisis shows how unwise and shortsighted this was. There is also a lack of intensive caregivers to care for patients. The government has been aware of this defect for a long time. The National Audit Office pointed it out in a report of 2019, and the trade unions have repeatedly notified it without any changes. The combination of government's lack of commitment to intensive caregivers, the lack of drug production in Norway and the lack of a national infectious disease protection plan because of a civil vote-down may have serious consequences for people in Norway. At the same time, many workers are now affected by the permissive nature of businesses. Permits mean thousands of dollars in reduced income per month. Yesterday, Jan Tore Sanner said that they work high-tech, and that they have had close contact with the business community and the banks. Red supports measures to combat economic crisis. We have to think at least as much of the employees as of the company owners in such a situation. The first thing that should be done by the government is to increase the length of leave to 52 weeks, so companies don't have to cancel their employees. This came into being too late in the last financial crisis. Then the bankruptcy occurred while the crisis package was being presented. Now the first wave of lay-offs has hit many employees in travel, hotel and catering. The wages in this industry are low. It would be grossly unfair if the lowest wages had to pay the highest price of an economic crisis. Permits only get 62 pst. of wages and salaries. It's dramatic for people who earn badly from before. Therefore, we ask the government to consider increasing the coverage of low pay that is now being outsourced. In addition, the period of leave is three days without pay before they receive a daily allowance. We believe that the government has to cover these three waiting days. We have a government that has made it easier to hire people temporarily, and that doesn't clean up the job. What will the government do to secure the income of callers, freelancers and others who are not on leave but who lose work and income when the crisis strikes them? In fact, the government’s employment policy can contribute to increasing the risk of infection. In hotels and restaurants, unemployment is so widespread that we risk people going to work even when they are ill, in fear that the employer will stop offering them guards and they will be without any income. We are also at risk in the health sector. Many health professionals have so little jobs that they are looking for guards to get enough money to cover their rent. There is a danger that they will take on guards even if they are in the risk zone of having corona, to have income at all. Thus, a promise to ensure full and permanent jobs in the health and care sector will help lower the risk of infection in this sector. Today, it is Höie who explains to the Storting. But since the government has called in to the press conference with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance afterwards, I would like to ask Höie on behalf of the government here and now guarantee that measures will be targeted specifically at the lowest wage, which is now being particularly hard hit by the crisis that arises in the wake of the korona virus.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e501	I will not let the last article destroy what I experience as the main impression of the Storting feedback in this context, namely that there is broad political support for the health authorities' handling of this matter and further work, not least very strong support for those who are now in this job, who are very demanding, both in the municipalities, in our hospitals and in the national health authorities. And we're just in the beginning -- this is going to be tougher gradually -- and it's very important for those who are going to be in this for a long time, knowing that they have a united political Norway in their backs in the job they're going to do. I am very happy to hear so clearly here in the hall today. It provides strength for Norway in a difficult situation. I will comment on some of the questions that have come up along the way. What I experience is the review theme not only here in the hall, but also in the media and outdoors among people, the concern is that things are being practiced differently in different parts of the country. In such a situation, of course, some of it is due to the fact that things are not doing as they should, but it is important to stress that essentially this inequality is due to the fact that there are different situations in different parts of the country, and we will still be able to be there that there are different situations in different parts of the country. We are now in a situation where we have followed each individual case of infection. Norway has a monitoring system called the Lighthouse System, where 70 opted-out permanent practitioners with a representative sample of patients across the country are testing all patients who have symptoms of this disease. It will give us the first warnings that we have a spread of infection in the country, and it can happen at any time. It may well be that if infection is spread only in one part of Norway, there will be significantly more stringent measures in that part of Norway than in the rest of the country. We must be prepared for that. We have to have the people's confidence that the measures we are taking are actually in line with the situation. But, as I also said – as the situation develops, there will be clearer national responses and recommendations. The representative Gahr Støre mentioned a quote from me. It's a very good quote, and it's about dealing with vaccination in the situation you were in when you had a vaccine. That weakness was followed up by Jonas Gahr Støre as Minister of Health in Meld. Art. No. 16 for 2012–2013 and later for me through the 2016 National Health Institute established a National Planlor for Mass Vaccination in such a situation. We also had a thorough evaluation after 2009 and 2010 under the auspices of the previous government, which provided a separate survey message with a number of actions and good learning points after the situation, which has been followed up in retrospect. We enjoy that today. That's the way it's going to be when we're through this situation. There will be learning points, and there will be improvement points that will be followed up. It gives us strength through experience. That's what our society is built up. It's made up the impression that we in Norway don't have a medical emergency room. That's not right. We have an emergency kit for drugs and especially for antiviral drugs. But it's a question of whether we're going to have a preparedness stock for a larger scale of drugs, and that's a question of whether we, for example. shall be prepared for the production or pre-storage of active substances in Norway. Several from the opposition have produced it as if the government parties have voted down these proposals because one thinks they are unwise. That's wrong. They were dismayed because this was a work that had already been started by the government in concrete, specific assignments to the Health Directorate. They have been partially followed up, but some of that work is in the middle of it. It is not that the government parties have voted in favour of wise proposals in this area because one was against, because the government was already doing this work. Work has also been done since 2009 and 2010, as the representative Toppe mentioned. I perceive that the way in which the Institute of Public Health, the Directorate of Health and the Ministry of Health work together in such situations just to avoid confusion is good, but that is something I as Minister of Health naturally follow day by day, hour by hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Health on the corona virus be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e536	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e545	In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes several amendments to Law No 18 June 1965. 4, Road Traffic Act. The proposals concern changes in the rules on driving licence-right training, professional driver training and training of expressive drivers. The purpose of the changes is, inter alia, to: to ensure more precise statutory codes of conduct for current regulations relating to approval and supervision. The need for an indication of the origin of the goods in this area is, among other things: pointed out by the Civilobbodsman. In addition, it is proposed to establish a legal basis for some new regulatory regulations. These shall contribute to ensuring that driver training is of good quality and that supervisory authorities have the right tools to respond to regulatory violations, including against illegal traffic training activities. The overarching aim of these changes is to strengthen road safety. Some changes to the practice instructions are proposed, including: a permit to set requirements for elephants and guidance staff. Recruitment requirements for, e.g.: registration could contribute to raising awareness of the role and responsibilities of the person concerned and to preventing illegal training for remuneration from being camouflaged as a private exercise. These changes open to the requirement of continuing training and re-approval of training staff and professional teachers. In the field of traffic education, the competence of both professional leaders and traffic instructors is currently very different. The proposal provides a clear opportunity to establish new regulatory arrangements for periodic training of traffic teachers and professional leaders. The home of today's supervisory reactions is made clearer by this change in law. In addition, an authorisation is proposed to impose the periodic penalty payment. An authorisation and supervision fee is also proposed, as is done in similar areas of the Road Traffic Act. The corresponding changes are proposed for professional driver training and training of expressive drivers as appropriate. The Committee is concerned that the driver training should be preventive and contribute to achieving the zero vision for serious damage and killing in traffic. The Committee believes that it is right to ensure more precise statutory codes for current regulations relating to approval and supervision. Finally, the Committee expresses concern that the introduction of registration requirements for counsellors could become bureaucratic, but the majority in the Committee would point out that the registration requirement should be made as simple as possible, for example. through a user-friendly mobile application, and trusts that this will be well-managed by the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e568	In the proposal, the Ministry of Transport proposes several amendments to the Road Traffic Act relating to the rules on driving licence training. We need to ensure that driver training is of good quality. It must be preventive and contribute to achieving zero vision for heavy damage and fatalities in traffic. We therefore believe that it is right to ensure clearer legal frameworks for today's regulatory regulations relating to approval and supervision. On the other hand, we are sceptical about introducing requirements for registration, training or guidance for escorts in addition to the requirements of today. We believe that this will go beyond the necessary quantification training, become more bureaucratic and expensive and not work as intended. Sweden and Germany have legislation requiring the registration of escorts and training courses for escorts before exercising. They claim that some have significantly less quantifiable training than they had in the past before. The argument in this case is to prevent illegal training activities for remuneration from being disguised as private practice. We believe that the only way to prevent this is to increase control through tax authorities and increase control on the road. An illegal training activity will not register in the system, so that the authorities can sit in an office and pick out those who are accompanied by too many. We have to get out of the way. We cannot oblige parents and families throughout the country to register to solve a challenge that exists only in other parts of the country, and especially here in Oslo. We think that either one should inform the students why one should not use unprofessional, non-approved driving schools. The Labour Party will therefore vote against the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 26 of the Road Traffic Act in the case of amendments to the Road Traffic Act, which reads as follows: «The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the exercise of certain motor vehicles, lay down additional requirements for the exercise of certain motor vehicles and impose requirements on pupils and accompanying persons.» Then our dissenting vote is described.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e586	In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport proposes several changes to the Road Traffic Act. The proposals concern changes to the rules on driving licence training, professional driver training and training of call drivers. The overall objective of these changes is to enhance road safety. These changes open the way for the re-training and re-approval of traffic instructors and professional managers. At present, individuals have made considerable efforts to update their own competences. Today's regulations require professional development and continuing training to be taught in certain classes, but it is not a general requirement for continuing training for all traffic teachers and it is very important. The proposal provides a clear basis for establishing new regulatory regulations on periodic training of traffic instructors and professional managers and stricter requirements of competence for those who are required to perform particularly demanding tasks, such as: managers contributing to the training of new traffic instructors. Course organisers are also required. The proposal proposes to require the registration of accompanying persons. It will contribute, in the Ministry's view, to raising awareness of the responsibilities of the escorts and to preventing illegal training activities for remuneration from being disguised as private practice driving. Such a registration obligation will not only prevent operators from engaging in illegal training activities. The centre party, like the Workers' Party, questions whether such a registration as is described in the first sentence of Section 26, fifth paragraph, would have such an effect. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the exercise, lay down additional requirements for the exercise of certain motor vehicles and lay down requirements for pupils and accompanying staff. The central party will inform us that we will vote against the first sentence of Section 26 of the fifth paragraph of the Act. The home of current supervisory reactions is made clearer by this amendment. In addition, a new authorisation and supervisory fee and the possibility to provide periodic penalty payments – i.e. a broader range to respond to irregularities – are proposed. We think that's good. Corresponding changes are proposed for professional driver training and training of call drivers as appropriate. With today’s demanding traffic view, it is essential that driver training is of good quality and that the supervisory authorities have the right means to respond to regulatory infringements and prevent traffic training activities that are illegal. The centre party believes that road safety work is an important part of transport policy. A zero vision if no one killed or seriously injured in road traffic is one of the main priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e605	The Progress Party is concerned that we should have the least possible bureaucracy, so one proposal someone now wants to vote against can ask questions. In fact, I believe it is important to be concerned with road safety and to open up the illegals, who are not going to do this. This is probably not perfect, but it's at least an attempt to open up the unprofessionals who drive private for remuneration, which means that students can see that they actually have good people running around. This is something that we in the Progress Party are concerned about and want to live, but we are concerned that it should happen in an efficient and rational way that makes it little bureaucracy for ordinary people, because we see that there are some challenges in that everyone has to register now. But I think it's so important in road safety work that we actually do. I'm a little surprised that one of the parties that always says they're concerned with the cleanliness of work and by taking those who run unprofessionally, here won't be involved in a little action that might allow you to open up some of those you can't open up today. It's a little bit special. But the Progress Party is concerned about this. We want cleanliness, and we want those who need training to actually have it in a proper and proper way. That is why we support the comments of the majority. It's a little weird that you're against it and you write in a comment that you have to have other tools, while there's no proposal for any other tool. I think it's nice. But I think it's good that SV agrees with what the majority is about to do, and that it should be easy to fix this, and that it should be easy to do it. I'm assuming that the Council of State is going to say that it's quite possible to do it in a way that's not very intrusive, that you do it once. It may be that this measure alone will not ensure that you open up the unprofessional ones, but if you can open up some unprofessional ones and prevent someone from getting practice driving by people who shouldn't give practice driving, and who even charge for it, I think it's a good proposal that lies here from the government. As I said, I agree. We should check, we should make sure to close these out and have more controls, but I think it's a bit of a strange approach from a party that says they're concerned with cleanliness and order in the world of work. This is to unwind unprofessionally and make sure that it's the serious ones that make sure that we're still one of the best traffic training countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e620	I would also like to comment on the fifth paragraph of Section 26 of this bill on the possibility of giving instructions in connection with driving exercises. There's simply a strange situation here in the hall. Where the Progress Party argues against possible undeclared work, the Labour Party and the Center Party therefore believe that they will not be in it because it is not effective enough. It's absolutely right that it's not effective enough. We are also involved in a joint statement by the opposition that there is a need for other instruments. But it is a sin of failure, as has also been said by the Progress Party here, that we in the opposition have not managed to make any concrete proposals on it. I just have to admit that. It's a sin of failure, for we should have done that, but it's often up to the Council of State and his hope to make such suggestions. We'll see how it goes after 2021. I have another sin of failure. There is a lot I should confess in this case. I could well have thought to have been in the government party's comment where it is said very clearly that it should be a simple mobile app – or that one must at least make it very easy to register in one way or another. This is a little bit on the road to get rid of the unprofessional – those who drive a private car and perhaps take on a job, charge and get income for the job without registering. This, I think, is the first time in my period at Stortinget that I have heard a representative from the Progress Party mentioning workers. It's not often a listener here in the hall. The two councillors we had before the councillor Hareide, have at least never taken that word in their mouths. There may be a few exceptions, I have to admit, but I don't remember. What I want to announce is that I will follow the majority's vote and vote for the proposal. But it has weaknesses, and I would like to remind the Council of State that the regulations and measures in that case must be so simple that ordinary people can easily access them. There must be a very low threshold to enter the registration procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e633	Practice driving in Norway at all is done in a good way, except in some cases. Driver training was extended by six months — i.e. the period before the age reached in order to be able to take a driving licence — e.g.: those who are going to go up to Class B at the 18th year limit may run from 16 years of age. It was introduced many years ago, and I am almost sure that the conversion we did at the time has helped to improve the driver when you are 18 years old. But then this registration has become the point you disagree with in the hall. It also surprises the Left and I that the Workers' Party and the Centre are on the line they are now. In this respect, it has been found that there are some unprofessional players in the industry, and efforts are being made to provide measures to provide more information on who is driving this exercise. If you connect it to the student, I'm sure it can be a useful tool to check if it's the same trainer on several points. This is black work. This is pirate driving, pirate training, which we have to deal with. It is quite clear that we have to keep it in mind when we adopt a law, which is not at all known to be used in such a way that it can be seen as negative bureaucracy. We point out that this has to be done in a good way. We have received feedback that this can be done in a digital way, that these are solutions that are in the process of getting a good order. The left very much subscribes to the majority proposal today, and it surprises me that the Labour Party and the Center Party are not in the same position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e642	The zero vision, i.e. the vision that no one should die or be seriously injured in traffic, has a high priority for the government, and as I experience the debate in the Stortinget, he also has a high priority for the Storinget. I would like to thank the Stortinget for the cooperation, and I am pleased that the majority advises the Stortinget to adopt this amendment, such as the amendment of the law. shall contribute to precisely better road safety and working life. High quality driver training is crucial to ensure that new drivers have the necessary skills to travel safely on our roads. The legislative changes will help to increase the quality of driver training, including through: requirements for the re-training and re-approval of traffic teachers, measures to prevent illegal traffic training and new instruments for the supervisory authorities in which a regulatory breach is detected. We know that there is a provision for exercise for remuneration outside approved traffic balls today. In addition to the fact that this is unfortunate in terms of competition with those who operate legally, it poses a great risk to road safety for all of us. Such actors have neither the recognition nor the training and competence necessary to be traffic instructors. But such illegal driver training is difficult to detect, especially because it is often camouflaged as a private exercise, which the police confirm in their hearing statements. The proposal therefore proposes a code to be able to apply more stringent requirements to elephants and tutors, to facilitate the control of practice and to raise awareness of the counsellors. For example, a requirement to register before starting a drill will make it easier to check the location if the execution is general private practice or illegal training for remuneration. A requirement to impose a requirement on the instructor to commit himself to the responsibilities arising out of the exercise could give greater insight into the importance of such a role and the duties that follow. I agree with the members of the Committee that if such a requirement is to be introduced, a single registration system must be set up for elephants and trainers. It is important that this is not perceived as a burden and thus reduces the scope of private practice. A simple registration system is also the intention of the Road Administration, and how this can be done will be further elaborated in the forthcoming regulatory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e653	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e659	The basis of the proposal refers to a number of investigations, reports and opinions. They are from 1998, 2001, 2009, 2013 and 2015. When the Road Directorate sent this proposal to the hearing, it was 3 July 2016, with a reply in October 2016. Only now will the matter come to Stortinget, and much may have changed in four years. Does the Council of State believe that these investigations are sufficient grounds for the information we receive to be timely in view of the time perspective that has now been mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e664	I feel that the basis for this matter in Stortinget is very good. These are known problem settings. We know that it has, among other things, illegal running, which we do not want. As I also mentioned in my post, the police have been very clear that there is a real challenge with controls. We are now in 2020, and this with a simple registration is easier in 2020 than it was in 2005 or 1998, as the representative of Leirtrø, mentioned at the beginning of his speech. So yes, I feel that this problem is thoroughly addressed. This has been working for a long time, both from the Vegvesen side and through the hearings that have been in progress. It makes me secure on the basis that Stortinget has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e671	When introducing new schemes and imposing costs on people, one must be sure that it works as it is. It is also clear from the case-law that a change of regulation may be sent to the hearing. Will the Council of State take care of it so that we get up-to-date knowledge? Does the Council of State see any other measure that can be taken to eliminate the unprofessional, illegal driving schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e676	Such a rule may be imposed. And yes, we want a hearing. The state road service will have it if we start that work. What I mean is, I'm natural, also to make sure that the size of what we're dealing with now, that if we introduce this, it should be simple and not bureaucratic. There is a majority in the Committee on this, and the Socialist Left Party has also joined it during the debate. Several instruments are open in this proposal. It is a proposal to supervise compulsory training. One also enters with a mullet system that I think is a good measure. It's possible with coercive payments. There are several tools that we want to watch, but we will also look at what the Stortinget now opens for: a registration system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e683	I am very pleased that the Council of State confirms that a simple and effective solution is to be found if you want to do this, and use that opportunity. But there has been some concern that the changes proposed can mean that you get less intensive training, and that there is more trouble for people. I would like the Council of State to confirm that this does not mean that between parents and children – or others as trainers – you will experience less intensive training than you are doing today, and that quantitative training is not going to be more difficult, because there is no doubt that quantification is very important and very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e688	Now there is a possibility that we can do this – that's the promise today. I want to be very clear: if we do this, it's just so that we don't have to reduce the amount of exercise. We have a good practice tradition in Norway. This ensures that traffic safety is maintained. We have to do it in a good way. But there are, as the representative Hoksrud said very well in his previous post, some challenges with, among other things. control. We'll look at this, and I promise that if we come up with this, we'll do it in a simple and unbureaucratic way that doesn't have any consequences for the quantitative training in the practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e693	Based on the signals we get from the Council of State, everything suggests that the regulations that are drafted take up the signals that come out of the hall, and of course come from the majority in the position. Then we expect it to be easy, and it will be easy for people to register. I wanted to ask the Council of State about the following: the entire opposition in the committee points out that this is not enough. There can certainly be other steps that would have been taken to get at least black work to life. Does the State Council have any thoughts about any other action that could bring down the unprofessional exercise drive or the camouflaged training drive that the police have revealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e700	I heard the representative Nävra mention this in his post, and I felt that he gave me time almost until after 2021 to come up with that kind of proposal. It could be I've done it before, because this is something we should definitely follow closely. There are several tools in what the Storting decides today. I would like to point out some of them: after the proposal, it should be possible to supervise the training which is subject to approval, even in the case of operators who have not received approval and thus operate illegally. Law changes open so that you can force them to that type of actor. Furthermore, the type of operation could also be reported to the police. So here there are possibilities for better supervision and a better authorisation system. All in all, Stortinget makes very wise decisions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e707	I thank you for your answer. I think there are some interesting signals coming from the new Council of State on Transport. For a number of years, we have had two government councils that have not been particularly concerned with controls on unregulated work, for example. We've taken it up many times in the hall. I'm very excited about what councillor Hareide will take forward in areas that are bordering on this matter, which are going on cabotage driving or pay and employment in transport, which are quite serious. This is probably almost more a comment than a question from me, but if it is to be rounded up with a question, it must be: does the Council of State see that part as a serious and important part of Norwegian transport policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e714	I would like to add that it was former state councillor Jon Georg Dale who presented this case. That's what I thought he was tinging praise for. It is a matter that is well developed and for which there is a good basis. When it comes to the cabotage challenge in this sector, I have experienced – even when I was not the Council of State – that there is a strong commitment to the Storting. These are things we should work with more. We should work towards the EU with this kind of problem setting. It is our responsibility – we who work with this sector – to do so, and I am pleased with the signals that the Storting is also making on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e721	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e729	There is no doubt that the Progress Party has been involved in road safety and controls both within and outside the Government. I think Nävra and SV can notice that, and maybe they've also got along, but it's quick to forget. Every time we discuss transport policy in this room, we are concerned with road safety – it says at least all parties. That's why the Progress Party says it's okay, as long as there's a simple mobile application that can help to avoid unprofessional and simply road-hazard training. The Labour Party is talking about a decent, serious and safe working life. It is also the Progress Party for this. That's why we don't think it's bureaucratic with a simple mobile application, which I'm pretty sure the Council of State and the government will take this further work with them. The centre party talks about road safety and that zero vision is the main priority. It is for all parties here on the Stortinget, I think. Then it's also a little strange that the Center Party doesn't think it's okay with a small, simple mobile application, that it might prevent unprofessional traffic training. If there's something we can do to ensure good traffic training, it's that those who are going to teach people how to drive a car in traffic have good competence. That's the first bid. In fact, the party of progress is for it to be safe and sound. It is also very much about, I see it in many places, that students are sent up to the traffic station with insufficient competence and ironing, thus imposing large queues and long waiting times for those who have received safe and good training. So for the Progress Party, this is not a problem. A simple mobile application takes a few seconds to input, and then it's all right. It is the least we can do for the sake of road safety work and a safe, good, decent and serious working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e742	When I heard the contributions of Hoksrud and Stordalen, I came to think of the legendary poignant Olav Oksvik, who was well the one to make contributions, and in the margin of his manuscript wrote the following: weak argument, raise the voice! It was then violent as it was supposed to swing about a slight disagreement in the committee. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party and the Centre are in favour of all the legislative changes, with one exception, and that is the possibility for the government to decide in the form of regulations that there should be a registration obligation for accompanying drivers in practice, i.e. those who have driving licences and exercise driving. I just want to stress that the legal text says: «The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the exercise of certain motor vehicles, lay down additional requirements for the exercise of certain motor vehicles and impose requirements on pupils and accompanying persons.» It's almost a blank warrant for the government. There's nothing in the legal text or in the proposition, as Stordalen now says, that this has been done in a mobile application in a few seconds. There's no model for this. Would it not then have been more sensible to produce a model? We are not opposed to making a model, and if necessary, to making changes to the law, if necessary. I think there'll be a lot of noise out of this. With regard to the problem with those who are paying to practice, because there is a problem, I just want to say to Jon Gunnes, who used the term ‘user actors in the industry’: No, that’s not the point. These are not actors in the industry. These are people who are operating illegally, as the Minister for Transport also said. And if that's the case that the Vegvesen and the police don't have the opportunity today to intervene against the people who drive against illegal practice in return for payment, we'll probably do something about it, then. I have not realized that this is a problem around the country. Is that a problem in Sveio? Is that a problem in South Reisa? No, I've registered that this is primarily an Oslo problem. If I'm wrong, I'd like to be corrected, but the question is, are we going to put in place a system for the whole country where everyone who is going to be accompanied by practice driving has to register? Now, at least I'm sure that the Minister of Transport and his people in the Department and in the Directorate have noticed the commitment to the Storting, and that if there is an arrangement, it becomes a simple and practical arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e760	The system of having someone on practice runs has worked very well all around the country for many, many men's years. It's almost like when people are going hunting for the first time and have a grandfather, father, or someone you're safe with. They're going to show how to do it, how to control the car and control the traffic. This has been a relationship of trust between the accompanying person and the driving person. I have understood – and I was not really aware that it was a big problem, as the representative Myrli said – that there are people who scoff at it and try to hide a business they do not have the authority to do, by charging them from some people. Is it really like this when it's in 95 pst? Of these cases, it's all right to make a rule with great powers, as the representative Myrli also described, and to say that only we register it on an app is that okay? The Council of State itself said that there are a lot of instruments in this law other than this paragraph that allow you to go in and check whether these businesses are operating illegally or not. Making a bureaucracy that will apply to everyone, just because a few break the rule, and making it a big deal that the Central Party and the Workers' Party are not occupied by the workers, is with all due respect just customs. It's just nonsense. It's not like we're going to make rules for everyone to be able to get them. It must then be possible to find out in other ways whether people are engaged in illegal activities in this country. Otherwise, I think the rest of what is proposed in the law is very good. What is perhaps most worrying is that there have been no laws and regulations that allow people to follow up on the education they might have taken 30 years ago, with a completely different traffic picture. There is a clear possibility that there are people who may not have followed completely in the swings, and here you have the opportunity to give them a better offer, and that the professional leaders will be able to follow up the employees they have at their driving school. It is very positive and much more important than just this companion registration on a simple mobile app.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e769	The President would draw attention to the fact that ‘customs’ and ‘customs’ are not to be regarded as good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e774	The representatives from the Workers' Party and the Centre have not heard that this is a problem. No, but if you have talked to the National Association of Authorised Traffic Schools and read a little from the hearings and from the meeting with them, you may have heard that it has just been a big problem, because they are concerned that there are too many unprofessional actors. It's demanding, and you compete, among other things. not on equal terms. And when the traffic schools themselves demand it, I think there might be reason to listen a little bit. And then you have to find the balance, and that's what the majority here is doing. It is possible that there was a problem before the Progress Party, which used digital solutions and thought digitally, came into government with the other bourgeois parties, because we look ahead and use the technology. If you were to deal with the policies of previous governments and continue to work out the plan, at least nothing happens with regard to the conditions of the traffic schools and the pupils who are going to drive up, or with regard to cheating on tests. You might also have had even longer queues in the future, because you still have to figure out and make new plans to figure out what to do instead of acting. This is not a blank authorisation, as is claimed by the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. I am quite certain that the Council of State has received the signals from the Committee. Nor does it say that this is something you should, but something you can, in regulation – which the Council of State itself has explained here. The majority are clear on one thing: these are simple solutions and approaches that the industry itself is asking for. The majority are also concerned with road safety, not least for the young drivers who are going to work. I am absolutely sure that being able to use a few seconds to register might also increase the focus, so that parents and students are focused on getting safe and good training from serious actors in a decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e785	I can start with the quote from Olav Oksvik, e.g. – I’m not sure if I got it with me, it went a little fast! I don't think either the representative Myrli or the representative Hoksrud completely understands that we're low-key when we're standing in the Stortingen pulpit, but it may be because we're happy to make sure that everyone hears what we're actually saying. So to the difficult thing about this app: it's kind of fun to go in and look at a couple of the insurance companies -- they have an app if you're going to practice. Among other things, If and Versatile have an app where you can go in. So it's probably not that hard to fix this -- I think it's going very well. The young generation is very good at apps, they fix things like that. In a couple of short seconds, this is on your mind. Then I register that the representative Myrli says this is an Oslo problem. I'm not sure whether Telemark is defining as Oslo, but we have at least had a big problem there with this, that you come to the traffic stations and have to drive up, and so you don't have the skills and have been trained by someone who isn't going to run it. It's the unprofessional working life, which I actually think it's important to try to do something about. So I agree that it's not certain that this is the complete solution, that you solve everything, but at least it's an attempt to do something. The representative Myrli said this was not a big problem. In any case, both the State Road Service and the police say that this is a problem, and at least it is strange that you do not have your own suggestions, but just think you should vote against them. I think this is a good solution for a party that is not really happy with bureaucracy and that kind of thing. We are satisfied that a solution is now to be found that is effective and easy to handle. There will be little bureaucracy, and youth and adults today will fix this incredibly easily. Like I said, there are apps there today. I am sure, and the Council of State has also guaranteed, that there will be a good solution if it is introduced, and I am absolutely sure that it will be. This is about road safety, which the representative Stordalen was concerned about. We're going to continue to be one of the best countries in the world on training, we're going to make sure you're working towards zero vision, and then we have a little bit of different tools sometimes in terms of what's going on in order to achieve that vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e798	The representative Bengt Fasteraune is trying to say that we're not talking completely credible about our situation description of what we're experiencing as the Central Party's position on this issue. Bengt Fasteraune talks about there's only a few we're going to include this registration. Then I am a little surprised that Section 27 talks a lot about the supervision of the training institutions that we have today. You actually have to be careful, because not everyone has a legal set-up around their training. That's why I'm surprised you're going on a private exercise drive. It's very important, I think, that you now also have a higher degree of supervision in driving schools. Most of them are definitely serious, but we have to take the exceptions. We have to take them in view of the legality of their training – and not least black work, which is work crime, which I see very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e803	I fully agree with the representative Hoksrud that it is perfectly right to use the vote and show engagement from the pulpit, but there must also be some content in what we present from the pulpit. I must say that I am surprised that this was such a big debate. If people run so-called exercises and charge for it, there's a huge problem in Oslo, in Telemark and elsewhere, it's incomprehensible to me that it's not turned down hard. The Progress Party has had the Minister of Transport for six and a half years – if this is a big problem, why aren't those people taken? They obviously operate completely unlawfully and contrary to all laws and regulations. That's what's my point and the Labour Party point. There is clear research that quantity training is very important when taking a driving licence and becoming a good driver. Our concern is that there will be a system that will make it more difficult to practice, and that this will reduce the amount of exercise, less exercise. We're not sure if it's a point to give this to the government when it's obviously not a model. There is no app out there that can now be used for this, and there is obviously no problem for parents who are going to run with their son or daughter, and who are going to do it many times, because they will obviously register. But will anyone else who is going to exercise for a shorter period of time want to register to practice one or two with a neighboring youth or someone in the family who is interested in practicing? First of all, I am surprised that the Progress Party has made such a big number of this, and then I am surprised that they have not put in any more tools to take the basements that are involved in this organized practice drive for payment. And then I would like to underline once again that the Workers' Party is far from being opponents of finding the means to take those who are doing, whether it's in Telemark or elsewhere. So we're afraid there's going to be a system, and the result is that it's going to be less exercise, less quantity training. At least road safety and driving skills of young people required to take driving licences are not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e812	First of all, we in the Labour Party are criticized for not making our own proposals. We have made a number of own proposals at Stortinget in the fight against black work, among others. in the case of tax authorities and major roadside checks. When we're going to put in place a system, we have to make sure it works. If it had been that if all the parents and companions registered, all the black work would have gone away, then it would have been okay. But Sweden's experience suggests that there is no less black work there. There they register, and we have received feedback from parents and those who are going to drive up, that this is heavy and will make them less quantifiable. That's why we're skeptical about this introduction. Then we are reassured that the Council of State says ‘if such a requirement is to be introduced’ and that there will be a consultation on the regulatory changes that may occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e819	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e824	The representative Sverre Myrli is standing here asking why the Progress Party – with the Minister for Transport – has done nothing about this before. That is precisely why this matter lies here today, it is promoted by just Jon Georg Dale, who was Minister of Transport of the Progress Party of the Government. And that's exactly why this is one of many measures that have been taken in recent years since 2013 to fight crime along Norwegian roads. When it is highlighted and done here that this goes beyond quantity training, the Labour Party has very little confidence in Norwegian citizens and Norwegian parents, who are mainly driving with their children. Being able to register the individual on a mobile app has confidence that parents will do so in order to practice with their children, who are the ones who do this mainly. This is one of the measures for which driving schools are also involved, in order to ensure that there is a new tool in the toolbox to combat and get rid of unprofessional actors engaged in illegal training for remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e832	I won't pull out the debate, but when someone asks why we haven't had more controls, why no more is taken, there's one of the problems, and it says the police themselves. They do not know if this is a private practice or if there is illegal training for remuneration. That's the background for us to want this. Then I would also like to say that this sector has now shown a ability to – and I would like to refer to example as a Entour and driver card on the app – to get good solutions. I think there are very few 16-17-year-olds who are not willing to help their parents download an app in order to be able to run driver training with the help of parents in a good way. Then I want to underline, as I have said before, that we have now been given a possibility by the decision of the Stortinget today. Then I sent it out on the phone and took the tapes, and I promised a very simple system if we introduced this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e841	The representative Bengt Fasterale has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e846	President, I'm sorry to say that people are engaged in 'customs talk' – I'm not going to do that anymore, because people in this committee don't. That's for sure. I just want to comment a little on what Gunnes' representative was talking about. As for what he describes, Paragraph 27 says something about the illegal activities of people who are engaged in driving training, read: so-called serious actors, which perhaps people perceive as serious actors, too, we fully agree with all that the representative said in his post. That's not our point. Our point is this registration obligation for the general citizen who is going to be with his daughter or son and have some driving hours to make them better at driving a car. Of course, everything that goes into illegal activity is also entirely in agreement, just as the representative Gunne explained in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e853	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e858	I could not help myself when I heard the representative Myrli, because he was surprised that nothing had been done. As the representative Stordalen said, that is exactly what we did – that is why the matter lies in Stortinget today. So I think that through the debate that has taken place, there have been some clear clarifications from the Council of State, and I hope that the Workers' Party and the Centre will think again and turn around, because it is never too late to turn around before decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e865	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e884	First of all, I would like to say that in this interpellation, I will neither polemise nor attack the new Council of State, seafaring, sail if he now represents the government in matters of transport. The relationship that I am discussing today, which has also been clarified in a Document 8 proposal that is now on the Transport Committee, is very serious, and that is important. So it's about road construction, sizes, needs and priorities. The matter is about the environment, about climate and about a lot of money, and it is about new knowledge, both from the research communities and from the department's own trades union, the State Road Administration. The choice of early stage road construction concepts is important for costs, greenhouse gas emissions and for environmental and land loads. So I want to draw a little bit of history: the basis for the current NTP, the 2015 National Road Survey, added a sort of sobering expansion with a mix of two- and three-field roads and some four-field highways. But the then State Council of the Party of Advancement and the sitting government dismissed the investigation and set up its highway plan instead. I believe to remember that this grip increased the cost by about 550 billion. NOK by 2050. Enormous swimmer! So it was the highways that were to be given priority, not the railway, not the county roads, not the safe roads in the districts. There were four-field roads for 110 km/h to connect the country, not modern, two-track high-speed. New Weier AS was created as a tool for implementing the dream of four-field motorways in the major corridors, while the State Road Service was in a way clipped. The construction of four-field motorways in the major corridors, against Kristiansand and Stavanger, in the case of E18 and E39, and northwards towards Trondheim, and towards Sweden, i.e. E18 and E6. This happens before modern, two-track railway is built in the same corridor, and at best the railway is built at the same time as the four-field road. Then we can think about the joint project along Mjösa, and we can think about the joint project Ringeriksbanen/E16. Do you think this will increase or decrease car traffic? Of course, there's going to be a huge incentive for more traffic on these roads. Of course it does. SV has been of the opinion that we should first get a modern two-track railway in these corridors, and then scaled the road – as needed – afterwards. It should be a normal, logical ending. Of course, I have no difficulty in understanding that it would be unsustainable with a two- and three-field road down into Westfold, and downwards towards Telemark, without the railway being built first. Everyone who's been rowing down to Southland understands this. Thus, in addition to an increasing awareness of the climate and the environment in society, new investigations have been carried out that make it absolutely necessary to rethink the construction of four-field motorways. In October 2019, last year, two thorough investigations were carried out by the State Road Service on the speed and profitability of narrower four-field motorways in relation to two- and three-field roads. The conclusion was that the two-field road with some additional pass-by field, also to three fields, was much more reasonable and yields a marginally lower performance than narrow four-field roads when the average traffic is up to 12000 ÅDT. Both the construction of 120 km/h motorways and the replacement of 110 km/h narrow four-field road for 90 km/h by two- and three-field roads are therefore not economically viable, according to the State Road Administration’s investigation. This has to be noted by the Transport and Communications Committee, which the Council of State has to note, and the majority of the population must take note of these conclusions. We are handling huge sums of money on road development in this country. One of the most important conclusions was that on distances of less than 15 000 ÅDT, a two- and three-field solution will be able to cope with traffic disruption, i.e. up to 15 000 ÅDT. One might try to remember it in the future, it's good to have that number. NTNU’s research director Gro Holst Volden pointed out in a presentation of a research report in Oslo on 4 February this year that the main way to reduce costs is to select the right concept at an early stage, with the understanding of the size of the road at the KVU stage. This was based on an accompanying study carried out by New Veier’s E18 extension Dørdal–Grimstad. Nevertheless, Nye Veier AS has been given more and more new tasks, so they're rigged for the task they're assigned to, to build four-field highways. One has decided, in a way, in advance, with potentially high costs for climate and environment, the state fund and toll payers, without the benefit being close to weighing it up. It's going to be four-field highways. It's the mantra. The drivers pay a large part of the costs to new motorways. Only in June 2019, I think most of the Transport Committee remembers that they guaranteed over 20 billion. kr in tolls, on four projects, here in the hall. The Council of State has answered two written questions to me over the past few weeks, both on the history of road sizes and on what is planned for motorways ahead of traffic. As far as I can understand, it is clear from the answers that on the 22 sections that are open from 2013 until now, four are under 12 000 ÅDT and eight are under 15 000 ÅDT. Future projects that remain clear can also indicate that four-field roads are selected for five to six projects under 15 000 ÅDT in the coming years. So at the top of it all, New Weier AS has recently arranged for narrower four-field roads to be implemented as low as 8 000 ÅDT. Are we on wild roads? We have to ask ourselves that question. So future road projects can get even more oversized if we don't sit down and think about what we're doing. As an explanation of the overview, the response of the Council of State emphasises that one always assesses the forecasts of the traffic scene 20 years in advance. But then I have to ask: Will you not take any action – no grip – to bring down traffic, so that the forecasts are somehow made to shame? Because that's exactly what we have to do. So how are things in other countries? That's a nearby question. Two and three-field roads are used in many countries in Europe — and the ÅDT is much higher than in Norway. In Sweden, two different types of 2+1 roads are in use. Around 300 km are classified as a motorway. These have level-free crossings and middle parts, in which case they have a similar level of safety to that of four-field motorways. In Germany, 2+1 roads have actually been widely used over time for the ÅDT between 15 000 and 25 000. Think about it! The maximum observed value is 30000 vehicles per day. So for traffic safety: the state road service says that two and three-field roads with a speed limit of 90 km/h on daily routes give about 10 pst. lower accident risk than narrow four-field motorways. The investigation also shows that when Sweden increased the speed of some existing motorway networks from 110 to 120 km/h, the personal injury accidents increased by about 10 pst. on these routes. It's still the way speed kills. We're not going to forget that, we're going to take that further. Research in general shows that there is a physical distinction between the driving directions that are important, not the number of lanes. As speed increases, there will be more and more serious accidents. Therefore, a four-field 110 km/h motorway is more hazardous to traffic than a two- and three-field 90 km/h route, when both have middle parts. For this reason, my conclusion, which follows on from a question: Will the Council of State assess the scaling up of new national road projects in the light of the clear conclusions and important environmental considerations of the State Road Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e918	I would like to thank the interpellant Arne Nävra for inviting you to an exciting and important debate for the Stortinget. My intention is not least that we should build the right roads for the future. Then I agree with the representative Arne Nävra, who says that the benefits of these roads are of great importance. Of course, road safety means something, we need to focus even more on the future, and, of course, costs are of great importance. And then I just wanted to start here by drawing out three dimensions that show that this is also really going to be important to focus on. So now we see that the first driver-free cars are coming. What does it mean for what standard we need, for what capacity do we need? There I'll be honest to say that we haven't all answered today, but there's every reason to believe that some of them will give us the coming years, and that's what we have to take with us. We have also had a history in our country where the growth in car traffic has often become significantly greater than we had foreseen. One area I know well about is the distance between Lwigtal and Flekkefjord. There was an OPS project that was opened in 2006, and now we're already in the process of planning a new path in that area. It seems to me that we have not hit quite well, when we have to look at a new road already 14 years after. It's also important to look at the developments we have in the case of zero-emission vehicles in our country. The number from January shows that 43 pst. of all the new cars in this country were zero-emission cars. The number was even higher for February. It's also a development that continues. The challenge of the toll situation in June 2019, which we all experienced, was demanding, which also the interpellant pointed out in his post, shows that we have to build on a proper level. It's for the good of everyone. There is no doubt that considerable funds have been provided to build up the road network in Norway, among other things. to improve traffic performance and safety. We will continue to invest in the development of our roads to facilitate an efficient and forward-looking transport system in Norway. When we look at such large resources for investment in the road sector, I think it is important that we think carefully about how we get the most back for these funds. In recent years, the Ministry of Transport has been actively looking at how we can get the most out of the money we invest, with particular emphasis on reducing costs and increasing the benefits of future road projects. On the basis of recommendations from the Statens vägvesen and New Vegar AS, the Ministry of Transport in March 2019 asked the Statens vägvesen to find out more about 110 km/h narrow four-field roads as a separate standard. The idea includes, among other things: whether narrow quadruple roads can be a reasonable alternative to two- and three-field roads on medium-traffic routes, and whether narrow quadruple roads can also replace full four-field roads on routes with slightly higher traffic. Small quadruple roads can be used on sections that bind cities or regions together and where the extra cost of a two- or three-way path is considered to be small or that high speed and high standards can contribute to socio-economic profitability. The Ministry of Transport has therefore asked the State Road Service specifically for narrow, four-way access at a speed limit of 110 km/h to be introduced as an alternative to two-/three-field road at a speed limit of 90 km/h on the road in the ÅDT range of 6000-12000 cars. At the same time, the State Road Service is asked to find out if such a narrow four-field road can be introduced as an alternative to a full four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h where the ÅDT range is 12000-20 000 cars. At the same time, the Ministry of Transport has made it clear that evaluations have to be made in each project if the option of narrow four-field roads has a higher socio-economic salary than the alternative of full four-field roads or two-/three-field roads. The idea has been that this opens up more flexibility in the practice of road normals than we have today, just to get the right roads. The Ministry of Transport asked that these questions be answered on a public hearing, and the Swedish Road Administration sent out a statement on narrow four-field roads on a hearing in October 2019, with a hearing deadline of 10 February. Now the State Road Administration is working on putting together the hearing statements, and then the matter will be sent to the Ministry of Transport for treatment as soon as the department has completed the work. I will not prejudge what the Ministry of Transport is landing in this matter, and what the government is landing on. There are arguments both for and against introducing the possibility of narrow four-field roads into Norwegian roadnormals. On the basis of the statements from the State Road Administration and the hearing statements, I want to be thoroughly involved in all aspects of the matter before I take a decision. But I can assure you that issues relating to road safety, costs, user benefits and environmental considerations will be given great importance in the assessments that are being made. Then Arne Nävra takes, among other things: raise the national road map in 2015, which concluded that two/three-field roads meet more important societal needs than four-field motorways on many routes. In the 2015 national road map, the choice of road standard was based on the road standards in force at that time. Therefore, the arrangement does not compare the two/three-field path and the four-field motorway on the same sections. Although no direct comparisons were made in 2015, this was done in the 2016 motorway layout. The distribution showed that motorways provided as good a social economy as or better a social economy than two/three-way roads for four projects, but in all cases the estimates showed that two/three-way roads had the best social economy. I mean this is an important debate to take. How we build right for the future is our responsibility. We now have big stakes in the way. It's important that we make the wise judgements. As I say, that's exactly the perspective that goes on economics, what brings the best benefits, outcomes, road safety and environmental considerations, what we have to take with us. We are now building for a new time, where there may be other growth prospects, where – as I also say – our car fleet is fortunately getting better and more environmentally friendly, but where there are also technology shifts that mean that the kind of questions can actually be even more difficult and challenging to answer, and then it is important that we also have more flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e954	I thank the Council of State for the answers, sail if he might not quite comment in what direction he will go. But I like that the council has an open position, and I'm told he's signaling that he's going to build the right roads. And then we'll see what that means. I may have missed that the Council of State made a small comparison with regard to the road in relation to the railways in the same corridors, and that he commented on the order in which we have witnessed the development of the railway and road. These are pretty important questions. Governments also mentioned new technologies, and this is clearly crucial. We're going to be pre-conquered and not backward, we're going to think about new technology, what it means. And I think we can say that it's not necessarily autonomy, that's self-driving, that's the important thing, but that the cars talk to each other, that can mean a lot, a lot. It could mean, as everything indicates, that the cars need less space on the road. So it will in some way underpin some of the attitudes I have on these questions. It is also part of the picture that non-priced costs are not concentrated on social analyses. These relate to land degradation, major emissions, higher energy use, etc. Regardless of the energy source, cars will cause a lot of particulate matter and a lot of microplastics from the tyres. New figures have recently emerged: 5,000 tonnes of microplastics are emitted from Norwegian car decks each year. It doesn't matter whether it's electric cars or fossil cars; it emits 5,000 tons of microplastics from our tires. This is seafaring to a great extent at the end of the sea. It is also the case that energy consumption is increasing enormously with increasing speed, exponentially almost over 90 km/h – the president sees me looking at the representatives of the Progress Party in the hall. And it's clear that there will be a fight for energy in the future, no matter what cars we have. It'll be a fight whether it's electric cars or fossil cars. That's it. Also speed means a lot in the models of social analysts, what is socio-economically profitable – 110 or 120 km/h means mass. Then the representatives Hoksrud and Johnsen and the others quickly come forward: it provides a better social economy. But there is a lot of work to do, both in terms of road safety and in terms of emissions. And I have to ask again: Shouldn't such decisive factors, unpriced considerations, actually count more in road planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e967	I agree with the representative just when he points out that this is not only because cars can be self-propelled, but also because of the technological developments that are leading, and because of the capacity we need. This means that we really get new possibilities and have to look at our analyses in a new way. There is no doubt that I thought this with narrow four-field road is exciting, because it is a real possibility to hit better. Today's stretch is Grimstad-Kristiansand. It was completed in due course as an OPS project. Then I want to make it clear that the width of the road is exactly the same, but it's also the difference between the two paths that meet. I also notice that both the State Road Service and the New Roads point to the possibility here. The signal from me is that here we haven't concluded, but that I just thought the perspective with new, narrow four-field paths is absolutely giving us some possibilities we should look at. Now we're going to get the work done by the State Road Administration before we deal with it. The narrower four-field road is also about using less land, which is a real challenge that the representative Nävra addresses and which also deals with soil protection issues related to development. So to the question of road and rail: Yes, we have now had some projects. We had the Mjøs project where we built roads and railways together, we have the Ringeriksbanen joint project, on the west we also have the Arna–Stanghelle K5 project and on the way from there, building roads and railways together. We just have to make evaluations of it. But the structure as he is in Norway today is that we need both more roads and more railways to be happy with this. To sum up: this I think is a very important and exciting work, and it's more demanding than there were just a few years back in time, through the developments we see. It makes it all the more important to prioritize this work. That is why I look forward to addressing the work that the State Road Service has completed, which has been listening, to conclude around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e980	I'll be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an interesting debate. It is an interesting debate both from a professional point of view and also from a priority point of view. Then I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for so clearly stressing the massive effort we have had on transportation since 2013, on the railway, but not least on the road, with over 80 pst. increase during that period. We also see that we have received a draft representative from the same representative, with several submitted to the committee, so this is a debate to which we are given ample opportunity to come back to committee work. One of the major challenges in the transport sector has been significant cost increases for projects from their entry into the national transport plan until they are implemented and completed. Therefore, it is not enough to provide more money for road construction, we also need to implement reforms so that we can get more for each krona that is used. The establishment of New Roads has been such a measure, which has shown that there is scope for new thinking. Predictable appropriations and increased involvement of entrepreneurs in the early planning phase have contributed to increased innovation, reduced risk and lower costs. So it's useful to think new and challenge both existing road standards and established ways of working. The state road system is now changing its organisation, and the aim must be that professional environments in both New Roads and the State Road Service can challenge each other and contribute to the further development of Norwegian road construction. I have great faith that this will produce good results for both organisations and contribute to increasing the social benefits of projects. We also see that the use of public-private cooperation, OPS, provides significant savings and contributes to the return of each krona used for road construction. Then it is important to see investment, operation and maintenance in the context. It provides a better and more comprehensive picture of the life-cycle costs of the project while contributing to longer-term investment with a higher overall benefit. However, such an approach requires the expected long-term development of traffic to be taken into account in the dimensioning of roads. Building undersized roads is not a good social economy and new measures need to be implemented only a few years after the projects have been completed. The right-hand starting point is that the roads need to be dimensioned according to the need. That means that four-field roads are built where there is a need, and two- and three-field roads where that is right. In our opinion, there needs to be a concrete assessment in each project, where the solution that brings the greatest benefits to society is chosen. It is positive that both Statens vägvesen and Nye Vejer AS have investigated narrow four-field road of 110 km/h as an alternative to today’s two-/three-field roads of 90 km/h where the traffic base is more moderate and that it is assessed whether this should be established as a separate standard in road standards. We're positive to establish increased flexibility in road standards at this point. It requires, of course, that road safety is well maintained and that the social benefits of the projects are improved, i.e. that the increased benefits of the narrow four-field route are higher than the potential increased cost. There is an assessment that must be made in each project. Then I record that the interpellant is opposed to four-field roads and wants to build two- and three-field roads without taking sufficient account of the future need. Our approach is based on the need to dimension roads according to a long-term need and that the regular four-field or narrow four-field path can be a good alternative to two-/three-field roads, but this must be based on concrete dietary/benefit assessments in each project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e997	The representative Nävra addresses a problem. I understand that he is very concerned that he will not build a quadruple road. Actually, you might think that he would rather be called ‘Snap’, because it’s actually about that he wants to narrow down and have less four-field highways in this country, and he wants two- and three-field roads. When you talk about percentageing or averages, it's kind of funny, because percentageing is about what you're starting from. 10 pst. might sound very much, but if you look at the accidents, it's very small. Or to put it like that, if you have 20 degrees in the freezer and 20 degrees on the stove, at least it gets very cold, and it might get a little bit hot, but the average is that it's zero. I'm not sure if it would be okay to use 60 degrees instead, it would put more guy in the person than 20 degrees, because that's okay. I think you have to see what this really is about. I think it's fantastic to get narrow four-field roads – it's just as good road width, it's a little narrower in the middle and a little narrower on the side – if the alternative is to build a two- or three-field road. It sounds like if you just build two- and three-field roads, there's no problem. Then I dare remind this assembly of what it was like to drive down in Buskerud, to come to the Drammen and stop about when you drove into the tunnel, for there was only one field further on, or to drive down in Westfold when under the red-green governments they built a little clumsy and divided. But now we've got someone who thinks completely and really. It's just to go to Bamble and see how you build there, how you finally build it when the Progress Party sits with the Minister of Transport. Then you build a really four-field road – a little narrower, but a good road. Yesterday I met a couple who had just driven on that road and thought it was a wonderful way to drive. You think a little bit differently and you build a little bit differently. Now the committee is going to Telemark. I am happy to take the representative Nävra with me, because then we will look at the old Breviksbrua there. And then it's the bridge that finished in 1996, which was built like a two-field bridge instead of a four-field bridge, because the forecasts said that there was not so much growth in traffic. The reality was that ten years later the road was too bad, and you had to build a new road next door. Now you're going to build a new bridge next to the bridge that's there today. That means we're going to have three bridges. I'm not sure it's very good, neither for the environment nor for those who are concerned with cultivated land. It may be smart to do it properly right away, and that's what the Advance Party is concerned about. That's why we say that in some places you can actually build a narrow four-field road with good standard and provide road safety. I believe that there will be more and better road safety as well. I hear what you're saying, but I think there's a lot of models, and the reality is that the new E18 through Westfold has been very few accidents with serious outcomes. It's great, and it shows that it's important to build a proper road. The Progress Party will continue to fight for it in this Chamber because we believe it is important. We strongly disagree with Mr Nävra's proposal on narrow roads. I think it's wonderful every time the representative reminds us that we're happy to build real four-field highways in this country, because it's actually about building for the whole country. The special thing is that the Center Party is also a bit skeptical about building proper four-field highways or a little narrow four-field highways and rather would build two- and three-field roads. This is about the districts. In the Oslo and Oslo areas, good quadruple highways with wide road liabilities etc. are being built, but the Senter Party will ensure that people in the districts, where a proper narrow four-field highway could be built, will not have the opportunity to get elsewhere. Then I just wanted to refer to E134. When the Progress Party in Stortinget for a few years ago – quite a number of years ago – proposed to build a four-field motorway over E134 between east and west, we suffered a bit. Then it is funny that Nye Weier, who is the new company, says that it is completely possible, they look at that possibility. It shows that it is possible to provide people with proper, safe, good and traffic-proof quadruple roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1008	The size has set five objectives for the development, operation and maintenance of the road network in Norway. It's ‘feasibility’ means a simpler travel day and an increase in the competitiveness of business; more for the money efficient use of technology; zero vision for dead and hard damage contribute to the achievement of Norway’s climate and environmental objectives; The objectives, as everyone here knows, are laid down in the national transport plan. Societal economic profitability is often produced as a professionally neutral response to what is best for society and measured with willingness to pay for the measure less costs. This means that a measure can be very expensive, but nevertheless become the most profitable. What is measured is what society as a whole is willing to pay for a measure, and does not respond to what is best for society in a broad sense. Such calculations alone are less suitable for deciding which road classes should be included in road standards. Therefore, the basis for the decision should be supplemented by other assessments. That is what this debate is about. Distribution concerns are very important in decisions on transport projects, not just socio-economic analyses. In this respect, allocation considerations should have a more prominent place in professional investigations, otherwise geographical differences will continue to increase. Consider two road projects: One cuts the travel time for commuters in the vicinity of a big city and, according to the cost-benefit analysis, provides a socio-economic surplus of 30 øre per krona invested — a typical high-standard quadruple highway. The second project provides faster and safer roads in a district where many depend on cars, but analyses show a socio-economic loss of 20 øre invested. That way never comes. What should be a priority? Many transport projects are unprofitable and it is difficult to identify what reasons actually govern geographical distribution. What analyses are to be made by professionals is the point of leaping. Distribution reasons are political, but professionals have to take more responsibility. A differentiated road standard is a good example of professionals taking responsibility and pointing to societal projects. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport in March 2019, a four-field roadway of 110 km/h was requested by the State Road Administration, to which reference was made earlier. The design of such a road and the quantities of traffic for which it may be appropriate shall be determined. A combination of two/three-field road with a speed limit of 90 km/h and a narrow four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h shows that investment and accident costs will actually be lowest with a two/three-field road. Of course, time costs will be lowest for the four-field option. For the projects tested, the main conclusion is that a four-field motorway with a speed limit of 110 km/h will have a lower net benefit – be less profitable – than a two-/three-field road with a speed limit of 90 km/h. But that's the capacity that's interesting here. It is clear that the two/three-field road is of good quality for operation up to ÅDT 15 000. The quadruple road has a good closure up to ÅDT 45000. It's the ÅDT that has to decide what to build. That's what's important, because it has something to do with costs. Other compilations have been made between a four-field road, 20 m, and a standard four-field solution with ÅDT 12 000 to 20 000. Both roads have a speed limit of 110 km/h. The 23 m wide roads entail increased investment, operating and maintenance costs and increased land use interventions, but have lower accident costs than the narrow four-field road. An estimation example shows that the socio-economic benefits are approximately the same for the two four-field options. In order to ensure a consistent standard and cost-effective solution on the overall road network, solutions with quadruple roads and traffic volumes lower than ÅDT 12000 should be approved by the national road authority. There has to be someone who says where we're going to build the different roads. New ways are in the same way of thinking. They want a narrower four-field road. There are slightly different standards than what the Road Service has set up. But they are also clear that here it is ÅDT that is important for which choice to make, and the choice should be between two/three-way and four-field, large or small.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1056	I would also like to thank the representative Arne Nävra for a good interplay. There are clearly very different views, even among traffic researchers, on the usefulness of four-field, two-/three-field and the problem around it, both wide and narrow. I would have liked the SV to be a little bit more concerned about going into the different projects and looking at the challenges you have with the roads that are there today, what challenges you would have had you chosen a two- or three-field, and what you achieve with, for example, the two- or three-fields. a four-field. My two examples are from Trøndelag. The representative Nävra mentioned them in his introduction. New Roads had received two projects in Trøndelag, which we decided last June, that's right. SV voted against, and it amazes me a little bit. The left and I have at least no bad conscience because we voted in favour of these four-field roads. First to Melhus–Ulsberg: Melhus–Ulsberg is in the category that Arne Nävra is talking about. Yes, it does not have an OWT of more than 15 000 cars, but today it is a very dangerous route, which passes through many densely built strips and has an average speed over the seven to eight miles. 60 kilometers per hour. The state roadway service had a project with two and three lanes. And then you might be able to get about 75 kilometers per hour. So, New Veier came in and got it into his portfolio, and based on the socio-economic criteria and calculations they did, it was very, very, very low on the list. Then they turned around and found some cheap solutions, some cross-resolutions, etc., in good dialogue with local politicians and local authorities, while expanding to four. It was to increase speed -- Arne Nävra is quite right that it was primarily to increase speed. But when we look at the evolution on that path, it's an industry path. Over 25 pst. - maybe up to 30 pst. in a few years from the traffic using that road, large trailers. It is salmon going to Europe, which is either slaughtered on Hitra or Frøya or further north in Trøndelag, or also in Northern Norway, which is going down that road. A very large volume of traffic is made up of these vehicles, and we expect it to just increase. Then I think it is absolutely right to build a four-field road, so that you get a much more traffic-proof road. Nor do you prevent private cars or other commercial traffic, because then you get a pass-by field. The other route is from Trondheim into Åsen, and you pass the airport at Værnes. There's a stretch that's really heavy today, with an ÅDT of 20,000, and we have some tunnel solutions there that are very dangerous to traffic. There must now be separate tunnels in the direction of speed. We can't risk anything – we have to be open so that there can be a major disaster on one of those tunnel sections. I hope SV also see that when you need to repair the road with these solutions, with tunnel solutions, there are completely different road safety requirements that make you choose those solutions. The representative Helge Orten also asked in his post that we now see clearly that there may be solutions with two and three fields, but that it must be assessed from project to project. I hope that SV is more aware of it, rather than that with today's principal attitude they just say no to these motorways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1071	I have to say that this whole debate is going to be totally unreal. All countries in the world, even though they are not close to having as good an economy as we have in Norway, build – or want to build – a network of safe, secure and forward-looking four-field motorways, which reduce accidents, reduce travel time and link regions and regions. All of Western Europe built a network of four-field motorways after World War II. Eisenhower started a similar exchange of the Interstate system in the United States at the beginning of the 1950s. And Eastern Europe also invested heavily, partly with EU-funded funds, on the development of a similar four-field road network as soon as the Wall fell. In Norway, or the Workers' Party – I guess I'll be fair with them – we actually had similar plans at the end of the 1950s and early 1960s. Bratteli had ambitions. It is a shame to say that I think it was a pity that the Workers' Party lost the election, but it was a pity then that the Workers' Party lost, because they had ambitions to expand the country – as the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left now do – 60 years ago. We developed the plans from the drawer, brushed dust from them and now implement many of those plans. And it's quite alarming that we - 60 years later - still have parties on the left-hand side that want to put those plans back in a drawer. I hope the Workers' Party does not want to fail their traditions and fail their predecessors by also putting them back in the drawer, but that they will rather support the government in that we will continue to build the country. If anything had been criticised here, it is not the ambition of the government to build the country. There should be criticism that previous governments have not taken hold of it a long time ago, because that road network would be in place before I was born. At the end of the 1990s I read a very interesting article in the Evening Post about E16 from Klöfta to Kongsvinger. Then the government – it was probably a pretty red government then, I think – and the bureaucrats in Vegvesen had planned a so-called two-/three-field, in which SV has become so happy. The bureaucrats from Vegvesenet even said in the interview that a four-field highway was really needed, but they still chose the strange, poor two-/three-field solution. It is a man, and a great and important but, thanks to a capable Ullensaker-rapporteur, Harald Espelund, and a capable chief of the state road, Stein Fyksen, they threw the two- or three-field solution at the sea, I kept saying. They scraped it and luckily chose a solution with narrow four-fields. And there's a really narrow four-field of 16.5 meters, but it works well. The drivers are happy. It's floating in traffic, it's traffic-proof, and it's significantly better than the solution originally planned for two and three blocks, which would have given kangaroo driving, jerk-and-knapp driving and absolutely nothing positive for the cars or the traffic flow. Ever since the first two- and three-field roads were built in Norway, I have followed closely that debate and put myself into the topic quite well. I never forget a similar article Hamar Arbeiderblad had for over ten years. Then there was an interview with a bureaucrat from the Road Directorate. He was also clear on the question of cost, that from two- and three-field roads to a narrow four-field road, the cost is minimal if you don't have bridges and tunnels like in the West. Here in the East, where we're building new roads now, the cost is about hip as luck. If you talk to the big entrepreneurs, Hähre, AF, Veikeck, Skanska and Gjermundshaug-Gutta from Østerdalen, they also confirm that the extra cost of four fields versus two/three fields is minimal. The largest and most experienced entrepreneurs in Norway are quite clear on this, and they actually prefer a standardised solution, as New Roads have now put up, where you have a narrow four-field, where everything is standardized, instead of going out and back and forth with a little narrow and slightly wide round each other. They have so heavy equipment and so big machines that it's actually looted and stapled for them to build those Arne Nävra roads. They want standardized solutions with four fields. It is faster, cheaper and more efficient, both for those who are going to build the roads and for those who are going to drive on the roads. That SV does not understand it is not surprising, because SV is most busy with trains. The criticism SV had of the government, that we were just building roads, is completely wrong. I want to say that we've got a very good balance. Now the Progress Party is no longer in government, but as long as we sat there, we had a good balance with giving Left wins on the railway side and the Advance Party wins on the road side. We also hope that the government will continue in the future. That there are opponents against building better, safer and safer roads, and that they refer to Sweden, is not always as relevant. Many of the Swedish roads are old two-fields that have been converted into two-/three-fields. There are not quite new motorways in new lanes. It's important to separate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1093	I'm always very impressed when people are so sloppy in their case. If the topic we are discussing today, there are some people who obviously believe that the most quadruple road is to be built in as many places as possible, and then there are some on the other side who believe that no quadruple road should be built at all. I'm going to think that the right thing is somewhere in between, and I have to say that I think the Minister for Transport had a very sensible and balanced approach in his speech. It reminds me a little bit of a debate we sometimes have in this room, about ferries or fjord crossings. Then there are some people who are absolutely convinced that we are going to build new bridges, tunnels and fjord crossings everywhere, and some on the other side who think we shouldn't build anyone, and have ferries everywhere. And that's where I think the solution lies somewhere in between. Sometimes we still have a ferry, and in some places it's right to build bridges and tunnels – new fjord crossings. In the work now on the rolling of the NTP, I think we should do what is right. In some places it's obviously right to build two and three-field roads, in some places it's right to build narrow four-field roads, and in some places it's right to build wide four-field roads. I mean, we can't say that we're going to do either one or the other – just build four-field roads or just two- and three-field roads. I really think we're going to be able to find good solutions to this in the process of rolling out the next national transport plan. I've read the investigations from the State Road Administration that Arne Nävra refers to in the interpellation, and I must say that I think it's very interesting reading material. As always, I hope and believe – I am absolutely sure – that the Minister for Transport and the Government have noticed it and use the arguments put forward in their work on the National Transport Plan. So one has to weigh the different considerations up against each other, and I started by saying, there's not one solution that's going to be built everywhere. So I would say – and a couple of others have also taken it up – that in some places we have obviously built roads with too poor capacity and too poor standards. One of the most controversial roads, with a lot of accidents, is the E16 between Bergen and Voss. Some might think that it is an ancient road, but it is a road that was completed in the 1990s. It is obvious that the road was built with insufficient capacity. Not to mention the E39 on Sørlanden, Lvgal–Fleckenfjord, as the Minister for Transport said. Someone might say that I'm very old, and that I've been sitting on the Storting for a very long time. But in my first period – in the Committee on Transport, as it was called – we were looking at where the new bridge over the Fedafjord was to be built. It's not that long ago. It is planned, it is built, it has been in operation for some years, and now it has too little capacity, and a new four-field road is to be built. So we have to learn from history and make the right choices for the future. So to Bård Hoksrud – he mentioned the E18 expansion in Westfold. Yes, it was very right to put it in place, but I just remind you that it was adopted under the Red-Green Government, at least south of the Cupid Cross. It was probably a four-field road built in the late 1990s and early 2000s up to the Copenhagen Cross, but its extension southwards was adopted and speeded up under the red-green government. On a road like E18 through Vestfold, it was of course quite right to build a four-field road. So that's good Hoksrud reminds us of all the good that was done under the red-green government – with SV in government, even.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1108	Thank you for the debate. If I'm going to sum up a little bit, at least there's been a lot of frescoed recordings, and there's been a pretty good recording like that in between. My idea was at least to start a debate in which we raised serious and serious questions, which means a lot in Norwegian transport. Whether I'm the one who's intrigued, or whether there are others who are, you can discuss, but at least the point is that the representative Hoksrud has not taken into account what the two UN panels have come up with in serious conclusions. They are never mentioned by the representatives of the Progress Party in this room – in fact, I think I have never heard of it. There may be something about my memory, but it's fine if there's an enquiry to me about it if it doesn't. The Natural Panel and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have provided the greatest warnings that mankind has ever faced. We must have this in mind all the time when the Transport Committee is going to discuss its solutions. It is often in transport that very many of these decisions are made. One third of our emissions come from transport, we have to bring this all the way with us. The Natural Panel speaks of land disposal as the most serious threat to the loss of natural diversity. It's absolutely vital to bring it all the way. This is an attempt at constructive solutions for Norwegian traffic to scale down some of the gigantomania that has been in Norwegian road development in recent years. There are many examples that we have built too small and too small. Yes, of course it is, but aren't we going to grab any grip, then, to get the traffic down? Should we not ask ourselves fundamental questions about how to bring down traffic, for example. by getting railway first? Should we accept the development that goods on the road only increase and increase and increase, while the railway loses? Should we accept this? And then we're going to build multi-field roads to take that freight traffic. I say no. We have to ask some fundamental questions. To date, we have discussed a virus that spreads — the coronary virus. I have to say that we have another virus to fear as well, and that's the highway virus, which spreads rapidly. I also know which representatives should perhaps be isolated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1119	I would like to thank Mr Nävra, like the representative, for a good debate. This debate is becoming important in view of NTP. As I said, we have asked the State Road Service and New Roads to look at how we can improve our road standards. It was Bård Hoksrud who said that if we get narrower four-field roads, it is not the road width itself that gets narrower. It gets narrower in the middle and on the sides, which gives us some possibilities. There are others who have said good and wise things. Helge Orten said well, he said we have to evaluate each single project. That's what I mean, I'm natural. Bengt Fasterale pointed out in his post how important it is to look at the traffic volume. There is also a discussion – it was also mentioned in the Bengt Fastereaune article – about both the type and where we are going to build. There are politicians who have to make a holistic assessment, but when it comes to the part we've discussed today, what kind of way we should build, it's natural that we listen to the professionals as much as possible. So I just want to point out that getting socio-economic benefits, improving road safety and getting costs down as much as possible is our shared responsibility. We have to take into account the technological developments that make it possible for us to have a more efficient use of our roads with a different type of standard, when we look at the next NTP. There'll be an exciting debate, which we'll come back to here in Stortinget. Your hearing has now finished. The Swedish Road Administration is now sending a real assessment to the department, and then I will of course take matters further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1130	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is over. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1153	The size is then ready to vote on the remaining item on agenda No. 56 from Thursday March 5th and the items on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1165	There are two proposals that have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party During the debate, proposal No. 1 converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the government that a work be started in which Nav’s various trade unions and users are directly represented, with the aim of ensuring that issues in the first line and in the internal Nav’s are followed up and that the government returns to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the removal of a panel of Nav users with a mandate to be the Reference Group and the Hearing Officer in the course of the work of the Reduced Investigation Committee, the Nav Response Team and the Ministry of Social Security Clearing and Investigation.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1191	President! The Labour Party will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1196	Then the Workers' Party, the Greens' Greens' Party and the Reds have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1217	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1229	Furthermore, the following were set: II Speech given by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the practicalisation of EU social security Regulation 883/2004 Article 21 of the Stortinget on 5 November 2019 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1241	The vote will then be taken at the next voting time on the agenda, Agenda No. 57.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1253	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1268	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1280	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1446	The first sentence of Section 26 of the fifth paragraph of Section I shall be deleted. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1461	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1471	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1481	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-10.ana.ud518e1519	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
