ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e67	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during this meeting by means of necessary infective measures. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will also remind you that you do not have to sit in your own place, but make sure you have the right distance – preferably two meters – from each other. Therefore, the President recommends that the sofas be used in the back of the rotunda and the Council of State seats in the first row. Representatives Hans Andreas Limi, Himanshu Gulati, Tor André Johnsen, Tore Hagebakken, Michael Tetzschner, Jan Bøhler, Une Bastholm, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and Sven Roald Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Socialist Left Group on sick leave of the representative Solfrid Lerbreck for the period from 31 March and until further notice, from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on welfare leave for the representative of Morten Stordalen from 31 March to 3 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Rogaland: Eirik Faret Sakariassen For Vestfold: Ellen Eriksen
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e139	Ellen Eriksen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e150	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that there will be a break in the meeting after the debate on case No. 8 to the submissions in case No. 9 and 10 are done. If necessary, the meeting will continue beyond 5 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e260	Last year France launched a new strategic document on its relationship with the Arctic. There the French Minister of Defence said: «The Arctic belongs to no one.» She describes the Arctic as a new Middle East. The French Minister of Defence is wrong. The Arctic is neither a terra zeroius nor a new Middle East. In the Arctic there are eight sovereign states with their rights and obligations. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea applies together with other international laws. There are eight countries that have cooperated both bilaterally and multilaterally over the course of a decade with an overall objective of preserving the Arctic as a stable and peaceful region. The methodology has been to build on common challenges and find common solutions. That's what you've done. Now there are voices that call for us to change our strategy and make the Arctic a new stage of playing out global security policy interests. I believe that is the wrong way to go. The agreement on the table today shows exactly what can be achieved through cooperation and dialogue. Most of the Arctic Ocean is under the jurisdiction of the coastal states of Canada, Denmark on behalf of Greenland, Norway, Russia and the United States. The essence of the agreement is the area central to the Arctic Ocean outside the 200-mile zone of some States. This international sea area is 2.8 million km2, an area larger than the Mediterranean. When the Arctic Sea becomes ice-free, fishing may be possible. According to AMAP, the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme, this can already happen in the first half of the 2030s. A major innovation with that agreement is that coastal and remote fishing operators have established a regulation many years before commercial fishing might become a reality. When I participated in December 2017 as a member of the delegation to the WTO Ministerial Meeting on Fisheries in Buenos Aires, it became to me a brutal experience of how difficult it is to reach agreement in international negotiations. One of the main objectives of that meeting was to agree that subsidising illegal fishing would be prohibited. You couldn't agree on that. Everything in Arctic cooperation is not perfect, but in the light of my experience from the WTO, I nevertheless believe that this agreement demonstrates the strength, opportunities and innovativeness of the dialogue and cooperation in the North. The Arctic states are taking the initiative, and they are taking responsibility for their neighbourhoods. In this agreement, a very central foundation is knowledge. The narrative to the agreement refers to the parties’ desire to prevent, prevent and eliminate any future illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and that cooperation on management and research can contribute to ensuring the long-term and sustainable management of wild marine resources in the Arctic. Therefore, it is stated that the parties shall cooperate in research related to the purpose of the agreement. A joint research and monitoring programme shall be established within two years of the entry into force of the Agreement. The aim of the Programme shall be to enhance the understanding of marine ecosystems within the scope of the Agreement and to determine whether fish stocks can be harvested sustainably. The Parties shall take into account all relevant scientific and local knowledge. I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on his new post and trust. It's very nice to be able to make it a citizen and a resident from the same city as myself, namely Bodø. I congratulate the Council of State on this. But I also have a question that I will challenge the Council of State to comment on in its article. This instrument, a joint research programme, must be in place as soon as possible, and I assume that the government will take an initiative and be proactive. I would like to challenge the Council of State to comment on how it intends to implement this, when it is realised that this programme can be operational and effective, and in what way Norwegian actors will contribute. Otherwise, I am glad that we are going to ratify this agreement today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e278	Sustainable management of marine resources helps to ensure robust fish stocks and value creation across the coast. It is important that Norway has an active role in international maritime cooperation, both in the development of international legislation and in the management of fisheries and the marine environment. Maritime issues have increased interest in the UN General Assembly, in global organisations and in opinion. The work in progress in international processes, such as the UN's annual resolutions on maritime and fisheries issues, also affects the space for action of our own marine resource management. We are being listened to in international forums because we have found a good balance in our own exploitation of the living marine resources. We promote the message of sustainable use and show in practice that it is the best way to maintain a living, productive ecosystem. The agreement aims at preventing unregulated fishing and thereby ensuring sustainable management of the international seas in the Arctic Ocean. Our coastal and marine areas border the international waters of the Arctic Ocean. This area is now covered by ice in large parts of the year. There's no commercial fishing going on there right now. In the event of a reduction in the ice cover over the decades ahead, fishing may become possible. The new agreement against non-regulated fishing in the international part of the Arctic Ocean is important as a means of protecting fish stocks in this area if commercial fishing would be possible in the future. The agreement is an internationally unique precautionary measure by addressing a problem before it occurs. The Parties undertake not to allow their own fishermen to fish until international management measures are in place for the area in question. At the same time, all fisheries management must be based on scientific advice and on research. The Agreement implements recognised principles of research and freedom of research as pillars of sustainable maritime management. The Committee stresses that sustainable stock management is a fundamental principle for the management of our fisheries. Of course, I fully agree with that. We are one of the world's leading fishing nations, and we have a responsibility for the sustainable management of marine fisheries resources. We fish on stocks we share with other countries, so we need to cooperate, and this agreement illustrates the importance of international cooperation. The Agreement implements basic international principles for fishing in the high seas and is a natural continuation of the declarations made by coastal States in the past. I am very pleased that the committee is gathered in its recommendation that the Storting consent to the ratification of the agreement. I must be allowed to come back to the question from the representative Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e295	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e301	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 3 and 4 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e327	Unfortunately, the case rapporteur, Jon Gunnes, is not present today, so I would like to make a few comments on the matter at the outset. For Prop. 35 LS for 2019 – 2020, the law on the organisation of the development of high-speed electronic communications networks – the simple and fine title of it – or the broadband extension law, as it can also be called: it is an overall committee that is behind the bill, and we are pleased about that. The aim of the law is to contribute to the cost-effective establishment of high-speed electronic communications networks. The law is aimed not only at providers of electronic communications networks but at all types of physical infrastructure, whether it is road, rail, electricity or water and sewerage, etc. The owners of such infrastructure are required by this Act to meet reasonable requests from the broadband provider for access to physical infrastructure for the deployment of high-speed networks. Access should, of course, be granted on fair and reasonable terms, including in terms of price. Norway is a demanding country to expand this type of infrastructure. Good coordination and joint use of infrastructure are important in order to keep down the costs of broadband development. Good coverage and low costs are an important competitive advantage for Norwegian companies and contribute to both value creation and settlement across the country. It should also be mentioned that there are already a number of good forms of cooperation that take account of a great deal of the Directive and the aims of the law, and it is important that the law does not impede such voluntary schemes. On the contrary, good voluntary solutions are often better than impositions. At the same time, a statutory obligation to provide infrastructure and to increase transparency and transparency of the physical infrastructure available will clearly contribute to better coordination of works and more efficient use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e338	Never before has our need for good and fast webs been more important than now. Digital contact replaces almost all physical contact a day, and fortunately we are privileged in Norway – we have good networks, and we are in a better situation than very, very many other countries in the world. Our networks and our digital infrastructure allow people to work from home these days, and otherwise people can live all around the country and reduce their costs and contribute to a simpler everyday life just because of the networks we have. There has been a very successful commitment to broadband and mobile roll-out in Norway. This is thanks to a market-based and technology-neutral policy that has been pursued by both the current government and former governments. Since 2013, we've gone from 63 pst. of the Norwegian population had access to 100 Mbps high-speed broadband, which has now increased to more than 86 PPS. And it's going to keep increasing. It is still the case that the offer in District Norway, when it comes to broadband, is not as good as in densely built strips, but the development in scattered strips has been particularly good in recent years, and the government is working to continue this development. The main role of the authorities in the sector is to create good framework conditions so that the ecosystem can continue to invest in all parts of the country. The cost of construction may be up to 80 pst. the cost of broadband deployment. The government has already contributed to good framework conditions through the definition of the so-called management regulation, which must give equal rules and practices for the implementation of, inter alia, the regulation. broadband networks throughout the country. The draft law under consideration today by Stortinget will help to make the establishment of fixed and mobile broadband even more efficient. The law will include, inter alia: result in the right of broadband providers to use the infrastructure, for example: electricity grids and already established public road traction pipes. A central information service shall be established to provide increased information on existing infrastructure and a dispute resolution body to resolve any disagreements regarding access. The law will provide ‘more broadband for money’ and help to speed up the development of fixed and mobile broadband. The law will make an important contribution to facilitating the deployment of the next generation mobile network, which will require more base stations. I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e358	I fully agree with the Minister for Digitalisation that at these times we see how important it is that we have electronic communications that work. I know that the Council of State is in contact with the operators in the market and follows the situation very closely, so that we have an up-to-date network at a time when many people have a home office and many students are at home and depending on having a network that works. That's 86 pst. – I think that’s what the government used – of the households that have satisfactory broadband. That means 14 pst. It has not, and it is a fairly large proportion of the population. So it's something like one of the seven households that don't have satisfactory broadband capacity. In a class of twenty students you might say that three do not have enough broadband capacity. There are quite a few, and the challenge must be to add up to a policy that makes all the country's households now get satisfactory broadband. Does the Council agree that this should be the objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e363	I thank you for the question. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to underline the good dialogue that the government has with the Transport and Communications Committee in this case, in particular with regard to the protection of societal critical infrastructure. Both the Stortinget Committee and the Ministry are now closely following the situation, so that all actors have a good network. When our everyday life comes back, we're also going to make sure that the web is expanded. The government has high ambitions, so we're only spending over 250 million this year. kr to expand our broadband. So I can assure the representative Myrli that the development is a priority for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e368	I thank you for your answer. The feedback we receive, both from industry actors and from county councils, who are involved in the prioritisation of the state funds used for broadband deployment, and which are now to be transferred to county councils in full, is that it is far too small. It's more of a budgetary question, so we'll have to discuss it later, but does the Council of State agree that in this difficult situation we could now use broadband as an instrument, so that more households get broadband, of course, but that there would also be good measures to speed up the construction industry and others out there who now really need jobs? The question is quite simply: Is the Minister for Digitalisation and the Government ready to take part in a task, that we now take a real thank-you to expand, so that all the country's households can have satisfactory broadband coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e375	As Minister of Digitalisation, of course, I want as many as possible of all households in Norway to have access to good broadband. I would like to stress that in view of the time we are in, it is important to have access to good networks – for business, for health professionals, but also for most people, so that you can maintain digital contact when you do not have physical contact. So I also believe that the expansion of broadband is on, as the representative Myrli stressed, to contribute to the activity, that there are excavators that are out digging ditches, and that you make sure there are workers and activity around the country. More money for broadband, a Minister for Digitalisation will never say no to that. I'm happy with the 250 million set aside this year, and I think that it will also help many more get access to broadband, as we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e382	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e401	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e408	This proposition is a partial follow-up to the Government Platform, which states that rules for the processing of surplus information should be reviewed. Then we all know the ideological, principled debate about whether the police should have access to profit information or not. It's been going on for many decades, and it's going to last for many more decades. Another question is how the police should process the information on which they actually hold. Today, there is some uncertainty and a little different practice on this issue. This proposition is very clear and sets clear rules on how these rules should be. A general rule is laid down that surplus information is to be blocked by a final judgment or by an order. There are also rules on when the blocked information can be reopened – e.g. by reopening cases, by reopening investigations or in order to safeguard the legitimate interests of the victims. Then you also get a clearer sort of what is considered relevant information, and what is considered irrelevant information. We're probably going to discuss a lot of whether the police should have access to certain police methods or not, but I think we can all agree that once we have a method, there must be clear and uniform rules and procedures for dealing with them. It seems that the Storting is gathering about it today, and I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e419	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the job and for a good understanding of the Committee's views. All humans are basically free individuals who are protected by a set of basic dishes. They include the right to privacy and legal certainty. In order for the State to intervene in these courts, it must be possible to demonstrate a legitimate need and to demonstrate that this need is so burdensome that the intervention can be justified. The need to fight crime can be such a legitimate concern, and it was clearly stated in Prop. 68 L for 2015–2016, about hidden coercive measures, which we deal with here in Stortinget in 2016 – too many Justice Ministers page. It is still valid and is also relevant when deciding today whether to block or delete that type of information. This was carefully reviewed by the Committee in 2016, and the case today is, in part, a response to the call for proposals that we made at the time, that the government should come back to the Stortinge with a review of the rules on the use, storage and deletion of surplus information. Together with the Central Party and SV we believe that the government today follows up parts of this call decision, as it says in the setting, and we support the proposal as it stands. On the other hand, the red-green plurality in the Committee disagrees with the government that one should bring it together in the Police Register Act. We are some with the majority of hearing aids, which think it should be collected in the Criminal Procedures Act, in the chapter on communication control. So we are proposing today that these rules be brought together in the Criminal Procedures Act, as it says in the resolution. In addition, the Red-Green Majority in the Judicial Committee notes that the EOS Selection of the Storting believes that any limitations on the use of surplus data from data reading should also be assessed using data reading as a prevention method. We don't think that's addressed sufficiently in this proposition. Otherwise, I will refer to the Working Party's comments in the Prop settings. 68 L for 2015–2016, on hidden coercive measures. It was a broad and comprehensive treatment that was very closely related to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e434	For the Left, it is important to ensure the legal certainty of suspects in criminal matters and the victims in criminal matters. These changes in laws do just that. The changes lead to the safe storage of information from surveillance agents collected during the investigation, and this information may later be used to defecate falsely convicted persons by means of a readmission or to investigate when new tracks have arrived. This is a legislative amendment supported by most hearing bodies. It is also important to safeguard the privacy of the person who has been monitored during the investigation of the criminal case and, when an investigation is completed, the data from the monitoring shall be blocked. This means that the information is to be kept separate from normal databases, access is to be limited to as few persons as possible and only persons with special authorisation have access to the data. This is stated in the police records regulation, and it is very important to follow it. Access to blocked information is also very limited. They cannot be used as part of the investigation into other matters, and it follows from Section 52 of the Police Register Act that data that is blocked can only be used for the purposes that did not delete the data. The information may only be used in an application for reopening, reopening of investigation or for the legitimate interests of the syndicate. In recent years, the police have stored information that has been collected in the course of an investigation into cases without a clear legal framework. This amendment is therefore an important clarification, setting clear limits on how information should be handled, in order to ensure privacy while enhancing legal certainty. Privacy is fundamental in Norway, and for the Left, privacy and legal certainty will always be high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e447	I am pleased that a unanimous committee has joined the material content of the proposition. It is important that the provisions on the treatment of surplus information are clear and practicable. The new blocking rule will ensure that information that could be relevant if the case was reopened will not be deleted. At the same time, it is clarified what blocked information can be used for. The majority of the Committee considers that the rules on the processing of data from the control of communications should be enshrined in the Criminal Procedures Act. The rules on the retention and deletion of surplus information relate to both the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Register Act. At the time of the adoption of the Police Register Act, a clearer distinction was sought between the processing of data, which was to be regulated by the Police Register Act, and procedural matters, which were to be regulated by the Criminal Procedures Act. The proposal to move the rules to the Police Register Act follows up this intention. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposition does not address adequately the use of surplus data from data reading in the prevention track. But it is the case that the proposition proposes changes to the rules on the treatment of surplus information in criminal matters. It is only police security service that has access to communications control, including data reading, for prevention purposes. This access is enshrined in the Police Act § 17d. The extent to which criminal procedural rules on the processing and use of surplus information are also applicable to prevention communication control must therefore be assessed separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e473	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e480	In this proposition, the Government proposes to make changes to the limits of the dispute law. It is proposed to raise the value limit for settlement processing requirements to NOK 200000, to propose the value limit for processing according to the rules on small claims process to NOK 250000, and to propose the appeal sum for property value issues to NOK 250000. The amount limit of DK 125 000 currently applicable to the compulsory settlement procedure and the right of the conciliatory councils to give judgment have been suspended since the Act of Dispute was adopted in 2005. By cancelling that amount, proceedings will be settled in the lower courts, and several cases will be dealt with in the Conciliation Boards. There will be fewer cases to be dealt with in the courts, and significantly fewer cases to be dealt with in the courts. In practice, it means that property values cases with a dispute amounting to between DK 125 000 and DK 200000, which are currently being first dealt with in the main proceedings, will be subject to mandatory settlement proceedings under the new rules. It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposals in the proposal. I'll make some comments on behalf of the Center Party. It is important for the Centre Party that everyone should have the opportunity to use the judiciary independently of the personal economy. Let's talk, for example. that everyone should have access to a lawyer and legal advice. It is a major challenge for the legal certainty of ordinary people to run a risk of having to pay large costs in civil matters, which is not all possible. Sometimes it will be natural for the costs to be high, but it is important for the Central Party to put in place measures to prevent them from becoming unreasonable. That is why we are promoting several proposals today, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, to take action to reduce the cost of conflict resolution in the courts. We also support the proposal for increased value limits for mandatory settlement and small claims procedures as part of it. We propose, among other things: that, in each case, the courts must actively decide whether it has been reasonable to incur the costs involved in determining the costs. A proposal is also made for the technical strengthening of the Conciliation Councils and the Councils of Conflict and for the strengthening of mechanisms contributing to the increased use of mediation and conflict resolution outside the courts. It is important for us to strive to resolve conflicts as early as possible, and as reasonably as possible, because that will be the best thing for all parties in a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e495	Thanks to the case spokesperson for a good job and for the way things are done, and thanks also for the suggestions from the majority in the committee. The Labour Party thinks it's time to make the changes that are proposed today. It is unfortunate that the special threshold for small claims has remained still for 15 years. Value increase has been high over the years, and ordinary treatment of claims that exceed these limits often becomes very expensive, and sometimes it becomes more expensive than the value of a dispute. The risk of becoming aware of significant procedural costs in a civil case is a challenge to the legal certainty of ordinary people. The working party has long thought that this must be done with something, and has also suggested several measures in the past. It's not just about free legal assistance and access to legal aid for those with very low income, it's also about ordinary people, ordinary disputes and ordinary matters. The Judicial Committee has asked the government in the budget setting to increase the use of, among others. extrajudicial mediation. It was in the Representative's proposal 152 S for 2017-2018 that the Workers' Party finally put forward a series of proposals, to which the People's Party spokesman referred. We suggested increasing the amount limit for the small claims process. We didn't get through it then, but we're happy that it's being done today. The Labour Party would point out that, together with these changes in the proposal, it seems important to strengthen the conciliation and conflict councils also professionally, and that mechanisms that increase the use of e.g. mediation, extrajudicial mediation and out-of-court conflict resolution mechanisms are strengthened. We also believe that the government should actively ensure that the costs of the case are reduced in other types of cases, and that the courts should decide more actively whether it would be reasonable to incur such costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e504	The left is concerned with reducing the burden on the courts, so that there is less queue for cases to be dealt with. Therefore, we are pleased with the amendments to the Dispute Settlement Act that ensure that disputes about less financial amounts are properly dealt with. Judicial proceedings are expensive not only for the parties but also for society. There must be a reasonable relationship between the resources used by the parties and society and the importance of the disputes on which the resources are used. It's important that we don't spend too much time on lawyers to argue about values, but rather we spend time creating values for the benefit of society. The legislative changes involve two changes. Firstly, the limit on the automatic recognition of an appeal by the Law of Lawyers will increase. In cases where there is a dispute over financial values, the amount of the dispute previously had to be NOK 125 000 or more. This sum is now increased to NOK 250000, allowing fewer cases to be submitted to second-party proceedings before the Lawyers' Court. Civilisation law states in its consultation that the total costs for two parties in one case are rarely lower than NOK 125 000 in cases involving values of DKK 125 000 to NOK 250000, and in addition the costs for handling the case are NOK 100000. The costs are the same as the amount of the dispute. This is not a good use of the resources of society and the capacity of the courts. The proposal has been widely supported by the Hearing Officers. An important part of legal certainty for individuals and businesses is that a case can be dealt with in two instances, the right of appeal and the right of law to legal persons, to ensure that the outcome is fair and correct. Therefore, there are also problematic aspects of increasing the value limit, which is why it is important that this limit can be waived. If the law enforcement authority itself considers that the case is of great importance to the parties or if there are particular reasons why the case should be brought before the courts, the case may be dealt with even if the amount at issue is less than NOK 250 000. The amendments also relate to the limit of compulsory treatment in the Conciliation Board, which is raised from NOK 125 000 to NOK 200000. This leads to about 500 cases per year starting in the Conciliation Boards instead of in the District Court. Cases in the Conciliation Board are dealt with on average for two months, compared with six months in the Court of First Instance. It means faster handling of the cases. The parties also have to pay less in the case costs, and for the business community it will be a great advantage, especially for small businesses, that cases are dealt with in the Conciliation Board instead of in the case law, as this also involves lower costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e523	The Government is responsible for ensuring, as far as possible, that the costs of judicial proceedings are proportionate to the amount of the dispute and the importance of the case. This applies both to the costs of the proceedings for the parties and to the resources of the courts. Proportionality between the costs of the case and the amount of the dispute is important in order to ensure effective access to the courts and to ensure the legal certainty of people. The limits of the dispute law have remained unchanged since the Act was passed in 2005. Therefore, a realignment based on the increase in monetary value is high in time, and the consultation showed wide support for this. In order for several cases to be subject to simpler and more effective treatment in the district court — with a resource use adapted to small claims — the government proposes to raise the value limit for treatment after a small demand process from DKK 125 000 to NOK 250000. The Small Claims Process has a limitation of the costs of the parties’ liability. An extension of the scope of the Small Claims Process will mitigate the level of costs involved. The sum of claims on property values is proposed to be raised from NOK 125 000 to NOK 250000. With today's appeal, the parties may, after the appeal procedure, end up with costs in excess of the amount of the dispute. This may constitute a hindrance to the Court of Justice in the first instance. An increase in the appeal sum could also reduce the length of proceedings in the law enforcement and reduce the number of cases. The limit for compulsory settlement proceedings is proposed to be raised from DKr 125 000 to DKr 200000. First of all, this is an upgrading based on the increase in monetary value. In several cases, the proposal will use a mediation and dispute resolution offer that is cheaper both for the parties and for society. It could help relieve the damage. The government's proposal means that disputes between NOK 200 000 and NOK 250 000 will normally be dealt with only in one instance, namely the district court. I would like to stress that these matters will be dealt with in a good and fair manner. In any event, the parties may choose settlement proceedings themselves, and access to them is fixed. The government wants to continue the arrangement that sets the value limits at a certain crown amount. The system is well integrated and simple and predictable to deal with for all actors. The objective of proportionality can be achieved by assessing the limits from time to time. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the government's proposal to raise the limits of the dispute law. With the changes, we ensure that the dispute resolution is adapted to the importance of the dispute, and therefore also that we receive a reasonable allocation of the resources of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e545	The majority in the committee are making some proposals today that we are not getting through to. In the one proposal, we propose to strengthen the settlement councils and the conflict councils professionally, and to strengthen mechanisms to encourage increased use of mediation and conflict resolution outside the courts. This argues against the government party, so I wonder if the Council of State can explain what it is in disagreement with in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e550	I just perceive that these are pretty tough priorities, and after the time we're in, I think the priorities are getting even tougher. This is how we, on the part of the government, will, in a short time, send to the hearing proposals for changes to the rules on legal mediation. It's been our main priority. Then I am not unaware that both the Conciliation Boards and the Conflict Councils need both upgrade and increased resources, both professionally and economically. It's something that we naturally get back to, but it's just about doing one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e557	I thank you for your answer. Governments and governments could have come back to the Storting in the way that one would, and at the time that fits, even if we had voiced for the proposal today – but enough about it. A single judicial committee has also asked the government in the budget setting to increase the use of out-of-court mediation and mediation mechanisms, and the Council of State said a little about it now. But will the Council of State say a little bit more specifically about what the government sees fit to do to resolve more cases outside the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e564	It's like, now that we change the value limits, we're going to have more cases dealt with in the settlement councils, and that's a good way to get things solved before you get to the court. My experience – which goes quite far back, I have to admit – is that the conciliation councils help to resolve a lot of issues in a good way. So there will be things going on, and it's clear that it's contributing to, among other things. The Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance shall have jurisdiction in legal proceedings. So we're going to follow this up. Of course, it's a wish that we can solve more cases out of court. This entails both time and costs that no one wants, but it is also a guarantee of legal certainty that the parties should have the opportunity to advance their cases. This is at least an attempt to raise the threshold and help solve more issues before you get to the first instance, in the district court.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e572	I thank you for your answer. The time we're in now is very hard and tough, for example. for business, and the use of out-of-court mediation, for example, is a mechanism that part of business would have saved a lot of money on spending. We know that actors like Bane NOR and New Roads have made more use of this conflict resolution mechanism, and they can tell you that it saves them a lot of money. So also in that perspective, this is a way to make sure that a saves society for money, while at the same time solving conflicts at an earlier stage. I'm wondering what comment the Council of State has on it – whether one can see a slightly more active attitude from the government to increase the use of extrajudicial mediation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e579	I don't see any disagreement between us at this point. That must be a good contribution to everyone. I imagine that the time we're in can lead to a lot of processes that we hadn't thought about a short time ago. What I can promise is that we will follow up this work when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e584	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e592	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 7 and 8 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e617	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e624	In this proposition, the Government is asking for consent to the ratification of an Additional Protocol on Electronic Consignment Letters to the Geneva Convention on Consignments for International Carriage of Goods by Road. Proposals are also made for changes to the Road Freight Act to implement eCMR in Norwegian law and to make the law more technologically neutral. In the suspension, consent to the ratification of the Additional Protocol is addressed and reference is made to a separate setting of the necessary legislative changes resulting from the ratification. In the case of cross-border cargo transport, a level playing field between countries contributes to the simplification of international trade, to the improvement of the ability to control the industry and to fair competition. Technological developments also indicate that consignment notes should be digitised. The desire of the transport industry to equate electronic consignment note with paper-based is an essential part of the background for the extension of the CMR Convention with an additional protocol for electronic consignment note with electronic signature. Since 2008, the number of countries which have acceded to or ratified the Additional Protocol has increased. The fact that more and more people are opening up to the use of electronic shipping letters speaks for the same reason in Norway in order to avoid unnecessary disadvantages for the Norwegian industry. It is a unanimous committee that supports the introduction of electronic consignment note. I would like to comment very briefly on the position of the Central Party in relation to the minority proposals in the matter. We have not entered the proposals from the Workers' Party and SV in the vote, but we join in all three minority proposals and the related comments. As I said, we are behind the unanimous committee position, but we believe that the new electronic consignment note regime should be introduced as a mandatory rather than as a voluntary one. The transport industry has been exposed for a long time in terms of working conditions, working life crime and road safety issues among non-residents. There is a significant impact on industrial conditions and, in the worst cases, life and health have been affected by serious road accidents. VAT evasion and illegal cabotage operations are also contributing to a weakening of the competitiveness of Norwegian transport operators. A mandatory electronic consignment note system is necessary to improve working conditions, competitive conditions and control of industry. It must also be possible to impose fines on foreign operators when offences are actually detected because, if not, they will in reality be able to continue to break rules on road safety or cabotage without any consequences. Finally, I would like to say that Norway lacks a fully-fledged digital transport register. The Central Party supports the proposal of the SV and the Workers' Party that such a register should be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e639	The working party of my right-wing government has been very passive to the negative developments we have seen in the transport market over several years. In the last seven years, the Labour Party has repeatedly put forward proposals to reduce social dumping and the crime of working life. We have put forward proposals for tightening up cabotage rules and proposals to establish a central online register of all transport operations in Norway, making it easier for authorities to carry out control. And that is what is proposed by the Labour Party and SV again today. In Document 8:84 S for 2016-2017, the Labour Party proposed to introduce a level playing field for domestic and foreign operators in the truck industry, including: establishing a separate registration system for all transport operations in Norway. Last year, the Labour Party again launched ten different measures for safer transport on the Norwegian road, including: proposals for establishing an electronic consignment note system for the carriage of goods by road, which is again proposed by the Workers' Party and SV today. Of course, the working party supports the consent to the ratification of the additional protocol, but for the Workers' Party it is necessary that these consignment notes become mandatory. If you do not do so, the unprofessional operators will still be able to change the way you send your mail, thereby facilitating the circumvention of the cabotage code. It is therefore an incurrence in the position that the Workers' Party is included in the comitology which describes the voluntary scheme. The Labour Party and SV – with the support of the Centre Party, and we are very pleased about this – now propose a digital transport register and mandatory electronic shipping notes, and we also ask the government to propose the necessary regulatory changes, so that we can impose fines for infringements of technical requirements for the vehicle and the cabotage code. We hope that we can get multiple numbers for these suggestions in the hall today. That would mean a lot to the suppression of work-life crime, and that would mean a lot to the industry we're talking about here. With that, I take up the suggestions from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e648	The representative, Mrs. Lene Vågslid, then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e653	I come from a part of the country where many people know of a fear when they drive along the north Norwegian, narrow, snowy roads, where foreign vehicles are moving that create dangerous situations, accidents and insecurity. This has been a persistent problem that, despite vigorous efforts, has not been solved. I think the time has come to go, put your foot down and move on with more effective measures. That is why the Progress Party will today ensure that the three proposals promoted by the Workers' Party and the SV are given a majority in this Chamber. We have to make electronic shipping notes mandatory. It will be an effective instrument to ensure greater seriousness in the industry and to combat unprofessional foreign actors. Of course, it is also about labour crime and social dumping. That's why I hope other parties join in. I think it would have been okay that the Stortinget now said that enough is enough, now we need to have more effective action against what makes the population in the districts particularly aware of insecurity along Norwegian roads – I have experienced it myself – because of dangerous situations with unprofessional foreign actors. That time must be over. We need effective measures to stop it. We have this opportunity today, and I hope we can get the whole Stortinget to point towards mandatory electronic shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e660	Now we see even more than we do, that drivers on the roads do a job that we need to do. In a time when we are quite locked ourselves, we need goods to come to us. Now we have the chance to make some changes in road transport that I think we should have done too far. That's something that the industry itself has been asking for a long time, and that we should be listening to here. We are at a time when security is in high ground in the acute matters we are dealing with. Then it feels good to be able to think about safety in the longer term in this case. Throughout the transport industry, it is generally important to do what we can to combat accidents and social dumping. It's hard when we don't know how many foreign car combinations are in Norway, when we don't know what they're doing here, how much they're paying their drivers, or whether they're following Norwegian laws and regulations. That is why we are once again proposing a digital transport register for all international freight traffic, combined transport and cabotage journeys in Norway. Furthermore, we believe it is positive that electronic shipping letters come into place, but pointless that they should be voluntary. I don't think user-friendly actors will give priority to keeping them in order. They are now also given the opportunity to change the consignment note along the way, and we can't have it like that. It is fantastic to hear that the Centre Party – and also the Advance Party, as far as I can understand from the last article – will vote in favour of SV and the Workers' Party's three proposals, so that we stand together to promote these changes that will be absolutely crucial. I'm glad to vote for that. A cleaner industry will help us in the important work for fewer accidents and less social dumping, and as a bonus, a cleaner industry will also make it easier to get a controlled transition where more goods are moved from road to sea and track to achieve climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e673	The Left is pleased that there is broad agreement to ratify the Additional Protocol on Electronic Consignment Letters to the CMR Convention on Consignments for International Carriage of Goods by Road. The proposal for amendments to the Road Freight Code will mean that electronic consignment note will be a fully-fledged alternative to paper-based consignment note. This is requested in the transport industry, and there is reason to believe that with this we will have a solution that saves money and administration both in the transport sector itself and outside. It will also provide for increased control and monitoring of goods. This is also important to strengthen work on cabotage, social dumping and labour crime in the transport sector. The Government is committed to combating labour crime, facilitating clean conditions of competition, ensuring road safety on Norwegian roads and providing good framework conditions for Norwegian carriers. The government has done a lot for this. Together with the other Road Alliance countries, the government is helping to optimise the regulatory framework for the transport industry. The government, through its anti-crime strategy, has launched a series of responses to the situation and is systematically working both internationally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e682	I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal in the proposal to ratify the Additional Protocol on Electronic Consignment Letters to the CMR Convention on Consignment to International Carriage of Goods by Road. I also welcome the unanimous support for the bill and thank you for the quick handling of the proposal. Electronic consignment note rules are requested by the transport industry. The bill meets a clear need to adapt the rules on consignment notes to international legal developments and the opportunities offered by today's digital solutions. The proposal for amendments to the Road Freight Code will mean that electronic consignment note will be a voluntary and fully-fledged alternative to paper-based consignment note. The rules will apply to both domestic and international freight transport if the parties have agreed to use electronic consignment note. A level playing field between countries in the case of cross-border cargoes contributes to facilitating international trade. Electronic consignment notes are assumed to provide time savings, cost reduction, increased control and monitoring of goods during transport, increased traceability of changes in the consignment note and more accurate information. This, in turn, can provide a better control basis and lead to a fairer competitive situation. I have noticed that a minority in the committee, who now obviously might be a majority in the Chamber, has made proposals that are on the side of what the proposition really is about, and which is my responsibility. This is a previously discussed theme in Stortinget. To the comments on, inter alia: Kabotage has engaged the Ministry of Transport, both at political and administrative level, to influence the development of the new EU legislation in this area, in particular through the Road Alliance. Clear rules and better controls for cabotage etc. has been important. This work now appears to have been implemented in the preliminary compromise of the EU bodies on Part 1 of the mobility package.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e698	This government often talks about red tape, efficiency and digitisation. Several members of the government have often said that the opposition to the Storting is too little concerned with digitisation. It was the shiny number of former Minister of Digitalisation Astrup, who was previously in the same department as the current Minister of Justice. But that's not right. The opposition on the Storting is very concerned with digitization. And yes, there's agreement about what the government is proposing here, but it's that electronic shipping letters are being equated with shipping letters on paper. By the way, it was just supposed to be missing in 2020. The challenge is that those who are not legally engaged in the industry can continue to carry on with paper waybills. The question is, why is the government opposed to making electronic shipping letters mandatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e706	I am pleased that the opposition has also been involved in digitisation. It is the way we see that this voluntary will bring significant improvements, and – as the representative says – it should only be lacking in 2020. However, it is also the case that national requirements for the use of e-bills will not solve the challenges identified by the road transport industry with regard to the use of cabotage. Electronic consignment note will, for example: do not provide the control authorities with access to real-time information on the collection and delivery of goods. That is the reason why this is based on volunteering, both internationally and by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e711	I do not know if I should laugh or laugh now, when one sees the feedback from an overall transport industry, which is quite clear that electronic shipping letters should be mandatory, from the employer and employee side of the industry. And not only that – the State Road Service, the Labour Inspectorate and the Customs Service say that electronic shipping letters should become mandatory. Yes, they even say that it is difficult, almost impossible, to check the old-fashioned shipping notes on paper. So here I just have to ask the government and the government to read up. So the opposition has promoted this a number of times, so it's not like a chef can come and say that the opposition has now become involved in digitization. This has been suggested many times by the opposition. Now, fortunately, it may seem that there will be a majority for the three proposals in the vote, and I would then like to ask the Minister of Justice: how will the government follow up if there is a majority for the three proposals, including the one proposal that digital shipping will be compulsory?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e718	As the representative knows with his long experience, this is a follow-up that will take place in the Ministry of Transport and not in the Ministry of Justice. But the government of course implements the decisions of the Stortinget. Something else would be both stupid and unwise, and that's not this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e723	In the last few days there has been a formidable effort to reach a common agreement in the Grand Duchy on matters that have been about the Korona. Now we have also got a good deal on this matter – we have gone from a minority position that two parties are behind, to actually having a majority where the government parties are not. So my question is, will the Council of State take an extra round and see if it's possible for the government parties to join in too, so that we get a unanimous vote on these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e728	I am pleased with the virtue and cooperation we have on the Korona, but I don't think party politics in Norway is being erased for that reason. At least I hope not, even if we have to stick together on a lot of important things. I note that the party that has owned the Ministry of Transport for the past six and a half years has now changed its mind. It probably came a little surprising to me, I have to admit, but this will be at the expense of the Progress Party. We are dealing with the majority decisions taken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e733	I am also very pleased that we get a majority in favour, is to facilitate changes in the rules that allow the imposition of fines by non-resident unprofessional operators, so that they cannot move freely around Norway, commit crimes, do not deal with traffic safety rules and then get away with it by going back to the country they came from, and refuse to pay. I think that I can be involved in both preventing a lot of illegal cabotage driving and not least saving lives, because you will be able to get safer vehicles and prevent the worst actors from driving around. So my question is, what kind of changes will the Council of State make to ensure that you can collect this money, so that you get criminal responses to unprofessional actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e738	Once again, this is a matter beyond my constitutional responsibility. However, as the Storting and the Committee have been informed, the Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the State Road Administration, is working on a proposal to increase the use of infringing charges in several areas. This is also information that Stortinget has received. Then there might not be so much disagreement about this – we have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e743	I just have to come back a little bit to the answer I got to the first question, if we could come to a common agreement on this matter. The council then said that even though we have seen a lot of hard work now in the coronary affairs, you won't necessarily erase the party-political dividing lines in other matters. But is it such that it is an important party political matter for the Right and Government Parties to have the electronic consignment note system on a voluntary basis and not mandatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e748	That's a strange question. That could be said of all things where the parties on Stortinget disagree. The government has presented its view because we believe that unilateral national mandatory rules do not comply with the motives for implementing this. Then I find that a majority now has a different opinion, and that's what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e753	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e760	This with illegal cabotage operations and what the transport industry is in the middle of, is definitely very challenging, and as a representative who drives a lot of cars, I often see foreign car trains standing along the side of the faucet and probably should not be here. The Labour Party says that they have been doing this for seven years: they were in government for eight years before that, and unfortunately there was very little happening in the area of cabotage. In the government, the Progress Party has ensured that we have given control authorities more tools to address illegalities. This applies both to cabotage and to vehicles that are not equipped and lack equipment to be able to drive on our roads. Special winter time we have seen great problems with this. In addition, we have put in place better cooperation between the different authorities to detect and defeat illegal cabotage traffic that violates both national and international laws, regulations and regulations. We have also strengthened the framework for the control authorities, so that they have had the opportunity to carry out more controls to address the illegality. Despite all the measures we have taken, we will also be voting today for the three proposals on the subject, which we know, among other things. The NLF and the employee organisations have worked very actively to obtain a majority. The proposal to be able to amend the legislation so that fines can be imposed for infringements of the cabotage legislation and technical requirements for vehicles are the things that Dale started working with when he was the Council of State, and that we in the Progress Party are very concerned about quickly getting in place. This will mean that those who operate illegally immediately get a reaction, and that it has consequences, so those who run at the border or illegally realize that it costs more than it tastes. That's why it's important that this now comes into place. The NLF has also shown that they want a digital transport register for all international freight traffic combined with transport and cabotage tours in Norway. We agree with the NLF that this can be a good tool, which, together with making the new electronic consignment notes foreseen in the CRM Directive mandatory, will strengthen the possibility of both faster and easier to switch off illegal transport and cabotage. Equal conditions of competition in the transport sector are something the Progress Party has been working for for many years. That is why we have also ensured that many measures are taken. With the proposals that are now before us, we will strengthen this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e778	This is a classic debate where everyone agrees on what's in the proposition, and then you start to disagree at the moment that the debate runs a little bit out on the side and maybe in the ditch. The common claims have been made that the government does not do enough and has not done anything when it comes to social dumping and labour crime, etc. There are claims that are simply not correct, and they must be rejected from this pulpit. Everyone agrees that the transport sector has specific challenges in terms of labour-life crime and other cheats, but the government has been really offensive in dealing with this issue. The social partners have been brought together for a real effort to improve conditions and decent working conditions. We have put in place new rules for supervision, for example: with workshops and effective reaction forms against those who break the rules. There is an enormous strengthening of cooperation between the various control and supervisory functions. The state Road Administration, the police, the Labour Inspectorate, the customs office and the tax department cooperate much better than before. Now the customs office can go out and check the vehicle. This is completely new, and it is a very important tool to combat the crime we see. We can also keep going, for example. road trains from abroad with wheel locks to secure our roads. So these statements that it's not doing enough are simply not right. So there's still a lot left, and I hope that all the parties will still contribute together to tackle the challenge. I am very positive and optimistic about the new notes from the representative Myrli. It's both modern and future-optimistic tactics from someone who's been known as a strong defender of, for example. analogue taximeters. So if he's willing to go into the government's proposal for more digital solutions in that industry, we might have something to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e787	It's not new that the Right in Stortinget uses lax rhetoric, we're used to it. If one thinks these suggestions are in the ditch, one more time, please read them. And if the right-wing government thinks this is party politics, it says more about right-wing party politics than about proposals. As the representative Emilie Enger Mehl pointed out in his reply in an exemplary way, there is no doubt that the difference between voluntary and compulsory consignment notes is party policy. I mean the same thing as the representative, Enger Mehl, that here we should be able to figure out, something that we've been doing for days now that we can do in times of crisis. These things are actually very important for the industry we're talking about. And if you start talking about ditches, to which the representative Peter Frölich invites, maybe one should be more busy preventing these trucks in that ditch. Then we can do more to prevent the crime of working life and social dumping, and there is a multiple in the Stortinget that is now willing to do so. The Board Hoksrud and the Progress Party will return to the Stoltenberg government. I'll leave it to you. The representative Hoksrud himself has been a tour of the Ministry of Transport and did not get so much done with it. Then don't let it be party politics. Let's gather about the three fairly simple suggestions. They have been very important to the Joint Alliance and too many actors in this field. Therefore, my call to the government party is: it won't be voting right away, it will be voting later today, then take a round in the group, check if this really is party policy for right-wing government. If I don't recommend that we get together on these three proposals, which are very good, which will mean a lot to the industry and to the fight against the crime of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e796	Here comes the one who is a strong defender of analog taximeters. It was then new to me. But from a joke to a serious point: I think it's very important and right that we apply digital solutions where that makes sense, and here it makes sense. It is more efficient for the transport industry, both for domestic freight traffic and for cross-border international freight traffic, and it is a very important tool for combating unprofessionalism and social dumping in the transport sector, which is a major problem. I think we agree on that, all the parties in this room. That's why we need to use a wide range of instruments. It is not that electronic shipping letters solve everything, but it is one of several measures that we have to take. That's the way in this field as in some other areas that we'll never be done. There are ever new challenges and, I think, there are ever new unprofessional players and cellars in the industry that mean that we have to use new tools all the time. That's why it's been working for a long time to get an electronic shipping bill, and that it's made mandatory, that it becomes the rule and not just as we now decide, that electronic shipping letters are to be equated with shipping letters on paper, the old-fashioned shipping notes. No, it has to be done as a requirement for everyone. I understand that the representative Frölich has not dealt specifically with the matter and cannot do much about it. I understand that, but then maybe one should jog down a little bit on the Greatness's pulpit. For this really has to have something to do with the matter. Case No. 8, which we are dealing with today, is actually about changes in the road cargo law, and that is the law that regulates the consignment note. So this has absolutely something to do with the matter. The strange thing is that neither the Minister of Justice nor any of the speakers from the government parties – I see the chairman of the Transport Committee sitting in the Chamber; he could, for example, do so. Take the floor – explain what the arguments against voting on the proposal are. That's just the kind of processal and technical thing we hear. Well, that's part of the case, and in a very common way, the Storting can make an order to the government, and then the government comes back to the Stortinget with proposals for law changes and that kind of thing. It's a very common way of working politically. Why, though, are the representatives of the government parties opposed to a system of making e-bills compulsory? We have not yet received an answer to that question. I support the chairman's call: it is a good time to vote, so it is quite possible to change our mind so that we can have a broad majority for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e807	I was introduced by the previous representative, so I guess I'll just take the floor. Basically, in my opinion, this is a very positive case, where we are now introducing electronic shipping letters – rather voluntary, but in a European context. I guess that's strictly what this is all about, as far as I can judge. Then it's also quite essential that we now in such a setting actually manage to take on ourselves that there's a very positive trend towards more people using these digital tools. So it's like there won't be any resistance on our part to the fact that we can have mandatory shipping notes, but I'm very in doubt whether it's expedient and feasible that Norway alone introduces such a rule. I think maybe this is something we should be working on in a European context and make these mandatory. Now we've got a voluntary arrangement, and I think that's good. The next step in Europe may be a mandatory scheme. This also applies to the work on a digital transport register. Well, that's probably very positive, too, but once again, when we talk about international transport, we have to have international rules, and then, in my opinion, we should have a common regulatory framework in Norway and Europe for these transports. That's why I think it's much more useful, much smarter, that we work like we've been doing for years by the Ministry of Transport, within the Road Alliance, within European cooperation, to have a common European regulatory framework in these areas. That's what will give the greatest effect. With regard to the use of fines rather than other types of reaction forms, there has been continuous work. I am very surprised that the Progress Party now needs to support proposals on this, after having argued for six and a half years that there has actually been a continuous work in the Ministry of Transport. In my opinion, it is a work that has produced positive results, namely that we have used fines, other forms of reaction and other forms of sanctions to a greater extent in the transport sector, where appropriate. It's a continuous work that's going on all the time. It is not necessary to make your own decisions in this Chamber that we should do the work when transport ministers have been working on it for six and a half years and the current Minister for Transport is working on it continuously. In my opinion, this is a work that needs to be carried out continuously, and that makes sense. We have written good observations on the past, which has also given good guidance to the Minister of Transport – both the previous two and the current – that this is a desirable development in the sector, and there are always proposals to use fines rather than other types of sanctions because it is more efficient, less bureaucratic and provides good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e824	Nothing is like a real debate on transport, and even shipping notes are being debated in a proper way. Then, of course, I register that the Workers' Party doesn't want to tell you what it was like, but I actually think it's important to bring with it what's happened in these six and a half years, because it's happened a lot. But that doesn't mean you're where you're going, because we still see that the creativity of some of the unprofessional is quite great. Therefore, it is also important to continue further action. I spent eight years in the transport committee, and although it might have been fun telling a lot about suggestions we made that time, I don't have to do that, because we all agree a lot. And in any case, I definitely believe that a lot has happened in the field of transport, namely that there has been a grip on fines, that there has been a grip on holding back vehicles, that there has been cooperation between the various control bodies, that has been ensured to strengthen that cooperation, and that more money has been allocated to deal with this. But we still see that the creativity of the unprofessional is great, and that is why we agree that some further action needs to be taken now. Then I register that you can agree or disagree. But the goal I realized was that the previous speaker, the representative of the place, too, was very clear: he would like to see that it becomes mandatory. Then we have to make sure that this is speeded up, and that is what we are doing now – it is clear that it is important to work in order to implement it. Of course – if you face resistance and challenges, you take it, but from the majority of Norwegians, you are clear that we will actually have this in place, and we will work for it to come into place. This is about what I get text messages almost daily from people on the road, from Norwegian truck drivers and road drivers, who are frustrated by what they see, about illegalities going on out there, and whether it also mentioned my parting trap Per-Willy Amundsen: that some of the challenges you experience on the roads are due to the fact that the equipment is not in the condition that you should be able to drive on, among other things. Norwegian winter roads, so that you are at risk to yourself and others. It's companies that run unprofessionally, and we have to deal with that. That is why I am pleased that you have taken action on fines, but I think it is possible to do even more. We have to speed that up, because this is about opening up the unprofessional and creating a level playing field between carriers. It will be good for the Norwegian transport industry, and what we are doing with the proposals we are now making – in addition to much of what the Progress Party has already done in the government – is that we are going even further to address this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e839	I guess there's still a couple of hours for feeding, so we can keep going. I just want to say to Bård Hoksrud, who would really like to talk about what happened in 2013, if that was possible at the time to introduce electronic shipping letters. I'm very uncertain about that. There's been an enormous amount of happening in this field over the last seven years. The red-green government did a lot to combat social dumping — in the transport sector and in the labour market in general. There were several measures in the eight red-green years, and I want to say that this government in the nearly seven years it has been sitting, has done a lot to combat social dumping. But as I said in my previous post, there are constantly new challenges. Newly unprofessional actors are increasingly seeking to exploit a system, which means that we need to constantly look at new things, implement new measures, be offensive. Now we are in the situation that we can also use digital solutions, digital aids, in the fight against social dumping and in the fight against the unprofessional operators in the transport sector. I just want to underline it one more time: we're not going to finish this work, we're going to have to work all the time, it's a continuous process. Then I want us to be in the driver's seat and we're in front. I just want to say to the chairman of the transport committee, Helge Orten, who almost made it like this is just something we are talking about in Norway: No, there are many countries in Europe that are doing this. If I am not mistaken, there are a number of pilot projects already in use, and there is a good deal of international cooperation on this. If I am not mistaken, Norway is involved in that cooperation, and Norway is involved in many of the projects involved in digitising the transport sector, one of which is electronic shipping. So this isn't alarming, this is something that you've been working with for a very long time. The transport industry, public control bodies, the trade movement, both the Transport Workers' Association, which has now joined the Joint Confederation, the Professional Transport Association and many others have worked with this for a very long time together with the Norwegian Freight Car Association and others, to which it has previously been referred in the debate. I just want to say that this is very correct, and I am absolutely convinced that in a short time we have a system where electronic shipping is mandatory. It's just so bad that we have to drag the government instead of the government being able to go ahead and take a lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e860	This kind of discussion we've had many times here in Stortinget. It is simply a matter of getting control of what has happened in the transport sector in recent years. The answer that the chairman of the transport committee, the place, gave, is really the answer we've been given all along, that this is under continuous work, this is what the government is working with, we have to adapt to international rules, and we have to make sure that this happens in keeping with the communities around us. At the same time, we see that you can't take hold. I want to commend the government for trying to seize, but you have not been able to find the right tools. It is not long since we had a debate on tyres and the quality of tyres, where reference was made to international rules on the approval of tyres in Italy which had hardly been approved as summer tyres in Norway. That's what's real. We have had exactly the same thing with regard to the standard on the vehicles – a standard on the vehicles that is too bad, which is difficult to deal with, and which it is difficult to control because of lack of legislation. Then you get into this discussion on the whole banal, which has been discussed over a long time, and it's getting electronic shipping letters, so people can't cheat. And if you can't agree today that this should be mandatory, you have a real challenge. If the answer is that one should come back and reconsider whether this should be voluntary or mandatory, we will not go further in the matter at all. We're going to discuss this a lot further in this room, I'm absolutely convinced of that, and we are going to do the same. If there is something you should actually seek to be agreed on, there is certainly safety on Norwegian roads. When we talk about the corona and about being reunited, at least we have to be able to be reunited about those things. The last time I was in a debate about this, I drove a car from Dovre and down to Stortinget and was only a millimetre from the front of a truck that had too bad tyres. This is about, among other things, electronic consignment note, and this is the possibility of using fines as an instrument. I sincerely hope that you will be able to agree on at least what goes on on mandatory shipping notes, when we will vote on this matter later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e875	I'll be brief – there are other things happening in the house a day. Just a little comment to the representatives Myrli and Fasterøne: It's possible that continuous work seems boring, but that's actually what can produce results over time. So when the answer is sometimes that these kinds of issues are constantly being addressed by the Ministry of Transport as well, it is, in my view, a positive feedback because it is precisely what in an international cooperation within the EU will produce results over time. If we're going to deal with international transport, we need international rules. We should have common rules in European cooperation – precisely in order to take the cheats, precisely in order to take those that do not comply with the laws and regulations. That is why I am concerned that we should continue that work. Whether or not that work continues is not dependent on individual requests in this room, it is a work that is ongoing precisely to have a pan-European regulatory framework in these areas. If that means that we can achieve that this becomes mandatory, it'll be fine. I think it'll be better than a voluntary arrangement, but that's where we've come today. I think that this is the very issue, namely the ratification and implementation of this voluntary European scheme. I think that's great. I believe that the result can certainly be even better if we jointly manage to put in place a mandatory system through European cooperation. I also think that there is a great willingness to get in place by the government. If there are also good projects going on in this otherwise in Europe, there is nothing better than that, because then we're on our way to what we all really want. It is possible that continuous work is boring, but it produces results over time. You just have to be patient about putting in place things that require that more than Norway actually have to agree on it — and so put in place good arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e888	Listening to the chairman of the Transport Committee, you can get the impression that because the government is working continuously – it really should be lacking, because it is the government's job to continuously work on improving road safety and other conditions in the transport sector and so on – the Stortinget should also sit on the sideline and wait and see. It's still the way that all power is in this room. And now that there's also a minority government, the Storting is quite free to adopt what you want when you can form a majority here. It's very good, I think, that we've now got a proposition from the government that you're not just knocking through to ratify an additional protocol, but that you've actually been working on to bring about a political change that has been a strong desire of the transport industry itself. It comes as a supplement to the job that the government does, not instead. That there should be some contradiction between the Storting taking its responsibility and making decisions and the fact that the government has a continuous national and international work is completely meaningless. Secondly, the place always shows that European unity, international cooperation, etc. must be put in place. It is important, but it is still the case that in Norway the Stortinget decides, and we need to be able to make decisions in the Norwegian deposit hall without having to consult with all the other countries of the European Union first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e897	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e904	The size then takes a break at the settings in case No. 9 and 10 are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e920	The size of the store then goes to the handling of the matter No. Nine and ten. Before that, the president would remind us that we should be at a good distance from each other. It is possible to use the State Council seats available in the first row and to sit in the back row. It is also possible to follow this big meeting from the Agency if one is not to be active in the debate. Positions in cases No. 9 and 10 have not been beyond the regulatory time specified. Section 46 of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. The President will propose that matters be dealt with anyway. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The opinions on the cases are available online. They are printed and will be published in the paper version in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e954	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e961	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its willingness and swiftness to work through a very big case. What is one of the finest things about Norwegian policy is that we stand together in crises. Once again, we have agreed on a number of measures that can help to save jobs and secure well-being. This is an economic crisis that we cannot choose from. The alternative is that the health care system does not cope with the burden of all those who get sick. Norway is a rich country, but our real wealth is people who go to work. River you carpeted under them, disappears a much greater value than our entire oil fund. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the Committee supports the proposal for very strong cash support for the companies of an estimated 20 billion. kr per month. Furthermore, we have agreed on a number of other measures to provide security for families and businesses. We strengthen the municipalities and county municipalities with approx. 5 B.C.E. kr. Some of the money will be used to support the municipalities that are the hardest hit by the covid-19 virus. 1 billion. kr shall ensure that counties can afford to operate the collective societies. We're also going to spend money rustling up Norway, so that the activity starts fast on the other side of this crisis. For the municipalities, this is just the beginning. There'll be more. We're reducing the rate of low VAT to 6 pst. until 31 October, and we have agreed on a number of other measures, which the other parties will certainly also mention, which were also mentioned at the press conference. Norwegian business is fighting a hard fight, and they need to know that we're standing by their side. Now we're adopting a lot of big crisis packages, and they're based on an economy and a robustness that's built up over generations. We're going into this with a view to and a certainty that once again we're going back to normal, so that we can build the country to have a robust economy, to rebuild the muscles, so that those who come after us, if they have to stand in such a crisis, have at least as good a toolbox as what we have today. Then I have a little apple. There are probably not so many people who come on the Internet, but it's home office days, so someone may come along, but I have an appeal for everyone: let's keep the wheels running where we can. Let's keep people working where we can. But they need to know at the same time that here in this room, we are in any case standing together to secure their daily lives, their jobs and their finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e976	I would like to thank the Financial Committee for its cooperation during the examination of this important matter at an appropriate time for the country. The main point of this proposition is that a notice is that there will be a compensation scheme for enterprises – for those enterprises that have been decoupled as a direct result of authority orders, but also for those companies that experience a loss in turnover as a consequence of the coronary apex. It is a matter that will be dealt with in detail first next Friday. That means that even if it's referred to in this proposition, I'll take note of it at this point. It's a design that's going on with organizations that represent the following ones. There is something to which the Labour Party is fundamentally positive, and we look forward to the government's more detailed proposals in this field. I think there should be a system that is unbureaucratic, a system that comes about quickly, and that, not least, gives a fair compensation, that helps companies that initially have a healthy economy actually survive. The country's downturn was acute. Many still wonder how everyday life is going to be in the future, what kind of security they're going to have for income, for work. What the Labour Party has wanted in the negotiations we have been part of is to give people greater security and not least to create a crisis package that is as socially fair as possible. Creating greater security for workers acts, for example: When we now see that there have been 300,000 unemployed, the highest unemployment since the war, we are forced to take care to ensure that all those who have been unemployed now have a real chance of returning to work as we approach a normal situation in the country. That's why we've prioritised 400 million. D to a range of competences, most of which will go to county councils, i.e. to in-company training. Part of it will also go to the social partners, so that they can quickly participate in providing training and continuing training in the industry that is particularly out of date, so that one makes it stronger on the day we have more opportunities in our working life. Security is also about the fact that municipalities, which are supposed to provide people with well-being, get the money they need to get it. That's why we're now proposing an immediate run to the municipalities and our county of 5 billion. kr. Then we assume that there needs to be more in the revised national budget. Municipalities do a huge job to prevent infection, protect people and give them a safer everyday life. They will then need money to keep the wheels running, to avoid permissiveness, and to continue to demand goods and services in the private sector, which will help to keep the Norwegian economy moving in the areas where it is possible, even in this extreme situation. Then we also give security to the industry and to private businesses. The strongest measures to increase value creation in this country are to wait until more people in the health sector are advised to do so at work. Life and health must be a priority. But the companies and the shipyards already need to know what's ahead of them in the future. They can plan for investment. It will also help to reassure workers that there will be opportunities for future contracts and value creation. It means something for the welder, for the engineer, for the yard worker, for ordinary workers, to know that we see the proper power behind it to start the wheels in the Norwegian economy. We've seen a double in the lines of green shipping, we've seen of 1 billion. kr to the maintenance project relating to road, rail, flood protection and race protection. This is something that matters to local entrepreneurs all over the country – knowing that these opportunities are coming. Not least, it is important to have a plan, because even if the shutdown occurred acutely, reopening must take place gradually and with a long-term ambition – not just about a normal state in Norway, but about a situation where workers have more opportunities, where the industry is experiencing more growth, and where we are able to reach the climate measurement we have seen. So much of the investment is just about investing in new, green, renewable industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e993	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. There is no doubt that the number of e-mails received in these days from dubious business owners and individuals is overwhelming. That's why I always feel like we're looking for and doing the best we can to try to solve all the problems that we're now facing, and then we just have to keep working on it. The cash support for the companies to come on Friday is an incredible number waiting for. For many companies, there is now a question about fighting the clock, where you need money to get over this trick. It is therefore incredibly important that the scheme that comes is broad and that it is good in terms of device. In Stortinget we also choose to add money to the municipalities to show that we are working. In the past, we have stressed that we should be involved in financing the additional costs that the municipalities receive. But when we now get feedback that municipalities are tightening up the services in the care of the elderly and other types of important services that people need, and not least on the purchase of services and goods, then it is important that we send a signal and also send money to show that we want them to keep the wheels going. There are thousands of oil workers around this country, including related suppliers, who are now concerned about the state of things. This industry has a great deal of credit because we're so privileged in this country that we actually have money on book to spend in the situation we're now in. There's a click in the oil price, demand that drops, disagreement between Russia and Saudi Arabia – the prospects now are very dark. But then we know that this is an industry that needs predictability and long-term thinking, and therefore it's important that we now also think in the long term. I therefore look forward to the government coming back with proposals to stimulate future investment in the oil sector. I'm also happy that we've put 130 million in place. For research and development, because we will continue to invest in this important industry for Norway in the years to come. We're taking action for the industry. We have the improved depreciation rates that I hope can contribute to important investments in industrial enterprises that have the opportunity to do so. We get in place a derogation from the CO2 tax, we get in place a renewal of the shortship fleet that is very important to many shipyards around our coast. We also give a hand bill to both the brewery industry and gas stations, which are now paying excise duties that they do not have money in the box to handle. Then we push it forward – and once again I just want to stress that we push and push both taxes and taxes in front of us here. One day they're going to be paid back, and I'm really worried that when that day comes, a lot of people are going to have problems to deal with. That is why I am absolutely convinced that in a future debate in this Chamber we will have to decide what to do with all this that we are pushing on. That money is finally to be paid, and they are at least not available for a long time in many of these boxes. We get done with AutoPASS, which means that instead of having to collect money from companies, a larger proportion of them can be left. We're going to have a reduction in VAT, which many people say means so little, because there's so little activity. That's it now, but we're hoping it'll start moving when we get to summer. I'm sure many want to get out on the road, if nothing else so at least in our wonderful country of Norway, and that we can get a little vacation, if nothing else. Then this could benefit us, and also the companies. Strengthening the Travel Life Fund is very important, so that we are now afraid to start ordering vacations again. Then there will be money in the box for those who are in the travel industry, and that is important. I would also like to say that it is very good that we now have a strengthening of the housing stock. It's a handshake to many of those who are struggling, who have little money to travel with, and which may help to make their everyday life a little better. It's a new step in the right direction, but we're far from in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1012	I believe that all of us who sit on the Stortinget, who have been in the negotiations, across parties, know the responsibility of the day, that we feel a great responsibility. I also feel lucky because we live in a country with such great geographical distances, and because we have such a strong sense of community. It notices you in everyday life when you're out traveling, and we've noticed a lot in politics these past few weeks. Of course, it's political divisions, but we know a strong sense of community, we have a common responsibility to come up with solutions that we think help people, businesses and to the seventh and last country. Once we have worked this week, it has been exactly that serious, but also the community feeling, which has been the bearer. I want to start with the value that the Community has given Norway, and that is trust. Now we're going to create a compensation mechanism for Norwegian companies that have lost turnover and still have high fixed costs. It must be designed as quickly as possible, as unbureaucratic as possible, and embrace as wide as possible. Therefore, it is so important that the Norwegian society is trust-based. The model that the government on behalf of us all is now going to design, of course, is going to have to have control mechanisms, but I have great confidence that that system will work well, and that individuals or individual companies will not abuse it when we are going to create a system that will help many of those who are struggling. Luckily, when we in Stortinget deal with it, we say that we trust that the government, together with LO, NHO, Works, the parties, will be able to find a good order – and then come back next week and then get leaders, with the very thing that in the Norwegian model we work together, and then it can be a good solution. We are concerned that in all the mole moods that many of us know, it is important that we now begin to point the way, and that we have the opportunity to actively pursue counter-cyclical policies in order to get the wheels moving, to get people out of the perimeter, from the fact that the companies are standing, to the start of their careers, and that we can actively use the policy. That's why it was important that, in addition to providing protection for municipalities, one should also say: Well, we have that experience, from the financial crisis at the end, that using the municipalities actively by giving money, we can create a lot of activity for many small businesses, carpenters and craftsmen, who can rely on being allowed to clean up the school or put new asphalt on the road, start the wheels. That is why the package of approx. 1 billion. It is important for transport, where one sees the road, which is very important in Norway, where one sees racial protection, because it is very important in some parts of the country, where one sees collective, and where one also sees ports and fairways. Then it's clear that 1 billion. kr is not a very large amount in such a context, but it points to the fact that the measures to be taken should embrace all parts of the country, different businesses. So I think it was important that we together here in Stortinget now increased broadband, because many have seen that in the last few weeks the families and businesses that do not have a good broadband connection have become even more vulnerable, and that in our time it has become a socially critical infrastructure that we are totally dependent on. Then it's good that we, all parties across the board, now raise it strongly, so that we can expand broadband to even more, and that even fewer will have problems if you're dependent on using that technology in the future – and that's most of us almost every day. I believe that part of the arrangements we have created in terms of permitting are solid, proper arrangements. It may be that there are also some companies that, for safety reasons, have permitted. I believe that it has nevertheless been a good social investment, even though the state has now taken the bill. I think maybe some companies have given themselves a little breath break with that permitting code, but it might be that a lot of companies have needed that breath break, and that we have our backs to carry that kind of arrangement. But all of us who are here know that for months or years it can't be that kind of logic, that we shouldn't live on each other's work, because to the seventh and last we live on each other's work. That's why it's so important that we now have to discuss the future – now we're securing the businesses, now we're ensuring the security of people through housing support, by getting the students a little better order, but we have to be able to look back very quickly, to see that you can reopen society as soon as possible, because it's the most important package of measures, but that we also have enough money to start the wheels. We know that many projects in private homes and elsewhere are going to stop a little bit, and then we have to spend public money, use the wealth that the generations before us have secured through national ownership of natural resources and a long-term administration. Norway is then one of the world’s best equipped countries to get through this and get the most out of work as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1027	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation also in this round, in the treatment of this crisis package, and I welcome the treatment we will receive from the package that comes during this week, on cash support, on compensation for businesses around the country. It'll be an important job. It has been very central to SV in the treatment of this crisis package also in this round to ensure that we get a more social package, which provides more secure income in the huge crisis that the country is facing. We know that there are many people who are out of work, who are out of work, and we also know that very many of those who are out of work, who are out of work, who are out of work, initially have low income. That's why we need to secure their income in the future, and we need to close the gaps, because we see that there are groups in society that are now without a secure framework for the future. That is why I am extremely pleased that we have succeeded in transforming parts of the scheme that the government would initially be borrowing to the students who are now losing labour income in the crisis, into scholarships. We've got a student billion in place to help secure the students' future even in meeting with an uncertain time, where they no longer have a part-time job next to the studies. We have increased the housing stock by half a billion kroner and made sure that more people can take part in it and get support to pay the rent where they live. It is extremely important when we see that more people are struggling to pay the bills because they have lower income. We're increasing the loan framework to the House Bank by 5 billion. ensure that more people have access to start-up loans, so that more people can get into the housing market for a demanding period of time. Then we assume that the kids in relief homes should be in contact with their parents, even though we have seen examples of the opposite in this crisis, and that children in the care of child protection should have a proper offer. It is also extremely important for the Committee to signal to the government that they have to come back with an assessment of whether the income insurance schemes we have adopted in the previous packages, and today, meet well enough – whether they meet the groups that need it, or whether there are any outsiders. It'll be important to follow up in the future. Norway is going to look different after the crisis we're in, because it's not just a global pandemic that hits us, it's also a change in the world economy. The world economy is getting worse. We also see that the oil price is falling and new technology is winning. In meeting with that, we have to think longer than just the next three months, then we have to think ahead for the coming years. We need to keep the supply industry going in order for them to be involved and build up under the green industries and the jobs of the future for Norway. That is why I am pleased that we are now saying clearly that the government has to come back with an investment decision for carbon capture and storage in the state budget for 2021 and investigated carbon capture at the combustion plants in Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger. These are green jobs and green industry in practice, which can employ many in industry, while cutting greenhouse gas emissions. The Eco-Technology Scheme shall be increased and the Government, in the revised national budget, shall return with several climate measures for Norwegian pedestal. We are also going to start development contracts for zero-emission speedboats, and the government is going to explore financing models to ensure the development and realisation of liquid sea wind, Norway's next major industrial venture. Otherwise, I am glad that the committee is so clear that the municipalities and the counties have to get money on the table now – 5 billion. kr is there, and there are also expectations that it will come more. We know that many municipalities today are uncertain whether they get the costs associated with the pandemic covered, whether they get their tax losses covered. We clearly say that they get that. It should not be the case that municipalities now have to cut welfare to afford to deal with the acute health crisis. That's why they had to put the money on the table. And we give the municipalities the security that costs will also be covered in the future. With that, I will meet the coming crisis packages, because we will need them in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1044	We are in the midst of a global crisis, where both we and other countries are primarily going to fight the coronary apathy and limit it in order to save lives. With the powerful measures that both we and other countries are implementing, we are in the midst of a global economic crisis. It is that our very system and democracy are also challenged. That is why I am pleased that, as in the previous crisis packages, we are now able to have a broad consensus in the Stortinget on the main grips of the package. I think it's been important to get this consensus. I also believe that both magnification and government in the first few weeks of the crisis we are in has been able to cope well with what we are facing. The main measures for life and health care are precisely that we have to be able to keep a distance between ourselves, and therefore the powerful means are needed to ensure that the health care system has the capacity to take care of the most seriously ill. That's why we have powerful tools, so we have closed schools and kindergartens, and that's why we also have business closures, whether it's restaurants, hairdressers or others — and many others have lost the income base. And we need crisis packages. As in the past, the total or partial number of unemployed has exploded. On 24 March, there were 335,000 totally or partially unemployed in Norway, of whom about 100,000 were from overnight stays, serving and trade in goods. So it is clear that we need to continue with vigorous action. In this case, the main instrument and the main decision we are making is to put in place a compensation scheme for the companies that are required to close down and have a significant loss of income. I would like to remind you that although it is announced by the government that this is coming back to Friday, it is only a little over a week since there was a discussion whether we should at all have such a powerful compensation scheme that we now get in place. It has to be wide enough, and it has to hit a lot of businesses. We have to look at how we can take care of whether it's travel businesses, the media industry or the intersection with culture, volunteering. There will also be many questions about the compensation scheme when it comes in place. I am very happy that we also have a strong package for start-up companies and entrepreneurs. Here is a strengthening of Innovation Norway and the Research Council of 3.1 billion. NOK which was further reinforced by 150 million. kr in the deliberations of the Financial Committee. There are also increased grants for green shipping, the eco-technology system and others. So I'm especially glad that we've now also got 1 billion in place. kr to counties to cover the dramatic loss of ticket revenue suffered by public transport. Here we would have thought that maybe we had better time, but it turns out that for the transport companies the situation is more dramatic than assumed, and it's good that we now get 1 billion in place. kr to cover the loss. We rely on collective societies to maintain their transport services during the crisis. The paradox is that we're going to have a good offer, but we really don't want anyone to travel with the public transport. But we have to make sure that we have the same offer when we get out of this crisis as when we went in. So, finally, I'm very pleased that we've now also improved the government's proposal to students, that they get easy access to loans, but they can also have the opportunity to get larger parts of that loan converted into scholarships. It makes it easier for students. The most important task we have is not only to take care of these students now, but also to ensure that when they have completed their studies, they have a professional life and opportunities for work in the future. It is the economy and the long-term impact that is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1063	Let me join those of my colleagues who have thanked us for the cooperation we have had, with some intense conversations where one has managed to work across, and where I think we in Stortinget have found the best in each other. Especially in a situation that still develops and changes from day to day, it's important that we both be able to listen to each other's different positions about how to deal with this situation, and be able to talk to us about good solutions. One of the best examples is that one's been able to put a billion on the table to the state to cover the situation that several of the community companies around now are in. It's about the fact that we're now in a developing situation that's going to change our society in many ways. One has chosen to divide the different types of measures into three phases, one of which has had acute measures that the Storting has discussed and reinforced, and one of which is now looking at measures for those parts of society that are particularly hard hit by the outbreak of the virus. Then one comes to a stage where it's no longer about putting brakes on society, but where it's about getting the activity back up, getting the economic wheels to go – when it's health professionally responsible, and when it's about facilitating the measures of infection protection. In the current situation, it's about securing jobs, creating security for people and people's economy, and for the businesses that are out there creating jobs and driving a good industry. We have now become a few about a government proposition that contains important measures, which are being developed between the social partners, about a compensation scheme in which a company that has had a particularly large decline in income can quickly be paid in order to cover some of the fixed costs. It'll be one of the most important things we as a magnification can do to get in place, just to make sure that in the situation we're in, we take care of the companies that in a normal situation would have good values and leave people with meaningful work and could feed themselves and the family. In addition, we agree with a proposition that has many good measures in addition to the measures we at present have taken on the Stortinget. We have e.g. Now connect to set of 230 million. to allow 400 new policemen to be assigned for six months to cover up so that one has the necessary standby. A former party leader of the Christian People's Party said that Norway is a small country, but a small country in the world. One says one should spend 200 million. 10 years on the global coalition for the prevention of epidemics and pandemics. This is a pandemic that happens hard to Norway, but the rest of the world is not screened for that pandemic. If there's something we can learn from pandemics, it's that even though Norway is a small country, we're also part of the world, and what happens out there affects us. If we want the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian family to come back to normal, we're dependent on the world out there in the situation we're now in. Therefore, I am pleased that the Storting agrees with that. In the quotation that Norway is a small country in the world, it is also said that Norway is a small country, and I think there are some important values to take care of there as well. We are a small country where there are differences in how good opportunities people have to work from home, or kids have the opportunity to get school and education at home when everything is going to happen over the Internet. Now the Storting has put fresh funds on the table at the top of the government budget to ensure that more people get a good broadband coverage at home. Not only have we made good efforts to make sure people can have a living, we've also strengthened the part that's about that we also have to have something to live for, when we have a plus 100 million. To the voluntary organisations, which do an important job of providing something meaningful to our everyday lives once this is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1078	I am very pleased that today we are making several important decisions – again – that make it easier for people and businesses to get through this crisis. It's a very serious situation for many. In this crisis package, too, we agree on a great deal, although there are also some environmental parties in which the Greens disagree with the majority. The Green Party has at this time had four priorities for which we have fought: fair student pay compensation, a rescue package for public transport, increased VAT reduction for culture and tourism, and a sensible green framework for counter-cyclical policies that Norway needs in the future. It is a paradox, I believe, that we pat the nurses by day while we fail the nurses. For many low-paid professions, such as health workers, which are now defined as socially critical personnel, higher education is needed. We know that 21 pst. students in Norway have children. Among the students who are now losing income, there are many families with poor advice initially. The government's offer to students has now been improved by Stortinget, so it's a delinquency, but still most of the students are now offered in real compensation, loans – and thus also increased debt. The Green Party proposes that all compensation for students who can document income loss should be given as a grant, and we also propose to increase the sum each student can ask for. In addition, we propose that in a short time the government should follow up with a fair system adapted to the individual’s loss of income, as the day-to-day payment system works for other employees. Another priority for the Greens has been public transport. Neither do I believe that the bulk of the population creates security. There's an agreement on the allocation now. It's absolutely necessary, but the amount is too small. One example is Ruter, who has the collective offer in the capital region. They report that their cash register, despite the appropriations made here today, amounts to 1 billion. kr, will be empty shortly after Easter. There is still a risk that buses, trains, trams and ferries will stop going in many places in Norway. Public transport is now crucial in cities for health professionals, shopkeepers and others to get to work, and the capacity must be good enough to prevent infectious diseases. Moreover, bankruptcys and legitimisations in this industry will make it more difficult to get a good offer back when the time comes. We are therefore proposing today that the State should cover all the lost ticket revenues, as the counties, the public companies, the NHO and the KS consider necessary. Norway has now experienced the highest unemployment since the 1930s and the lowest oil price since 2003. Both parts may get worse. Some enterprises and jobs will start again, but probably not all. Therefore, Norway needs a countercyclical policy, and it must be green. It is therefore serious that the majority of the population today are making more decisions that make it cheaper to pollute – such as exempting CO 2 from taxes on parts of industry, removing the CO 2 tax on gaseous pollutants and providing marshalling grounds with more investment in oil and gas. Clearly good measures, which, on the contrary, both create safe jobs and provide a more sustainable economy in the long term, are e.g.: to put in place carbon capture and storage for all large point emissions, start mapping, announcements and allocations needed to realise Norway's sea wind deployment, build emission-free ferries and fast boats, build shore-side electricity for shipping, secure Norwegian agglomerations and roads in the West against flooding and slipping, after-sole construction, build solar cells on the roof, electrify fishing moorings and the fishing fleet and speed up the development of Folloban. The majority have proposals in some of these areas, and the Green Party fills in with even more binding wordings, which I hope we will receive support. Finally, a couple of clarifications: the first is that since the decisions on appropriations are taken together, that is to say collectively, the Green Party will vote for all, even though we, as mentioned, are opposed to a few of them. The second is that we draw proposal No. 12th on Fornebubanen. That's a very good suggestion, but I'll come back to that on another occasion. With that, I would like to address the proposals made by the Greens and the Greens, with the exception of proposal No. 12, and those we're alone in. And I'm going to say, "Stay together, Norway, and stay away!"
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1107	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1113	We're in a serious situation. For many, life and health are at stake, and we now see how many of those who get the least paid in our society have jobs that matter most to all of us. I think everyone in this room will thank those on whom these days stand and who make an important – yes, a vital – effort. Then there will be discussions later on on how the efforts of these people will be valued – also by public authorities, by the municipality and state. Discussions are coming, including the discussion on how to ensure preparedness here on land, in order to ensure security, well-being and community for all. The current crisis is affecting society as a whole, and crisis packages are needed for jobs and for everyone affected by the crisis. There is an urgent need for measures that provide security for the economy of people. There is a need for a crisis package with immediate measures for hard-pressed municipalities and a crisis package for Norwegian industry that has immediate effect. We know that the industry is struggling hard. If we now lose important businesses in the supplier industry, the skills we should have built environmentally friendly industries will disappear in the future. That is why we must move on with public missions that can keep industrial communities alive along the coast. It cannot wait for weeks, months or until next year; it must happen now. Nor can we let work to make Norwegian industry more environmentally friendly and rusty for the future stop, it must continue with full force now. On that basis, I am pleased with the opening-up of proposals that Red has pressed for, such as giving everyone the opportunity to enter-house training and other skills enhancements. It is good that the government and the social partners should now consider opening up the day-to-day pay legislation, because we cannot have one who is continuing to train in industry alongside the job, being forced to choose between completing the education and receiving the day-to-day allowance when he or she is on leave. We want solutions that ensure that everyone on leave will receive a grant for training and skills enhancement if they want it, and when they need it. Unfortunately – I must say – the package that Stortinget is handling today is still too weak and too unfair. A good grip is taken, but it is not the package that is needed for the Norwegian industry now. Many input from the trade union movement is also not taken into account in the package, and there is a lack of income protection for people falling between two chairs. These are those who are in the car or have applied for the recovery of redundancy payments, those who are in permanent work, but who have too little income to earn a living from — and many more. Businesses need help to cover fixed costs, so that we avoid a race of bankruptcies, but the Storting must at the same time make demands. There is no requirement in this package to cut the rent for those renting out to companies receiving emergency packages from the government. All judgements are left to the current bourgeois government. We'll see how wise it is, because without that kind of requirement, the taxpayers' money will soon be withdrawn into the accounts of property barons and global investment funds that own property in Norway and that hold tax havens. When the state settles with the Community’s billions, we do not accept that these funds will end up in the pockets of wealthy shareholders, large property owners, business owners or bank owners. Everyone has to contribute to the effort, and then the Storting must take care of it with something other than beautiful promises and pious hope. There must be clear demands that come with the billions that we set up and that are the Community's means. Red will vote for most of what has been presented in the package today, but there is a problem when agreements are made to grant amounts in the tens of billions of dollars, up to and including one hundred billions of dollars, without following conditions that ensure justice, and without end-of-profit requirements or any other gain. Then, when the crisis is over, we end up with losses becoming socialized, while the gains are still being privatised. Yours won't be red. That's why I'm taking up Red's proposal, and I hope for a broad agreement with them in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1130	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1135	It is difficult to describe the uncertainty that now characterises Norway and the Norwegian economy, our business, our families and the health care system. The whole community is affected by a situation that we know so far neither the extent, the course nor the duration of. It is our responsibility to provide as much security as we can now, and to do our utmost to ensure that Norway gets through this, by showing leadership. We are facing a deep decline in the Norwegian economy. We can't avoid that. But the measures we are taking now have an impact on the depth of the decline and the speed at which we get back when the virus outbreak slows down. Over two weeks, we have, together with the Storting, put in place important immediate measures to help carry the burden more easily for the many who are now struggling economically – both workers and businesses – and there is a need for more. But let me also stress that in a time of crisis we also have a responsibility to safeguard the values of the community. We need to make sure that we spend the money properly, that the measures are targeted, that they are effective and that they are limited in time. One of the main measures proposed by the government is the establishment of a compensation scheme for enterprises that have lost all or part of their income as a result of the outbreak of the virus — a form of cash support which facilitates the payment by enterprises of so-called unavoidable fixed costs. Because even if you leave all employees and reduce their operations, there are some costs that don't disappear, for example. rent and insurance. The proposal implies that the State compensates enterprises for some of the loss of income so that they can cover a share of these determined costs. This measure will take the companies that need cash, not credit. We have presented the principles of the scheme, and I am glad that the Storting joins these. The regulatory boundaries are not fully in place. That's what we're working on right now, along with, among other things. the tax rate, NHO, Working Party, LO, SMB Norway and Finans Norway. The fact that the government is together with the business community, LO and a total increase in order to get this system in place is a strength. We will present the details on Friday. The aim is that the companies should have the money in the account as soon as possible. In the current situation of Norwegian enterprises, it is that the scheme is simple, and that the money is coming quickly, more important than ensuring millimeters of justice. We estimate that the cost will be up to 20 billion. NOK in the month, and initially see to us that the scheme will apply from 12 March to the end of May. That's equal to 50 billion. Total kr. The scheme may be extended if necessary: We also propose a package of nearly 5 billion. to grow businesses and entrepreneurs, mainly through actions at Innovation Norway, but also through the Research Council and Investinor. It's in the entrepreneurial environments of the future Norway is jumping out. Those who are start-ups today are going to take us through a necessary transition and form tomorrow's business. The serious situation we're all in requires an enormous amount of all of us. It's engrossing. However, we must not lose sight of the long-term perspective. Everything we do has to be about what kind of society we're going to have the day we've taken back every day: about jobs, about a diverse and innovative business and about an increasingly greener, more modern and sustainable society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1159	One of the important things in the setting is that we are busy pointing the way out for how we can get more out of the leave and leave and over in work. Then I realize it takes a little bit of time. We saw from the experience of the previous oil price drop how investments in the Norwegian oil and gas sector went down very much, from just over 200 billion. kr to at the base of 150 br. kr – a violent fall. So the activity in the construction sector went up, from about 150 billion. kr to over 200 br. kr. The construction sector was a major damper. It's probably not going to happen right now. Then we have come to spend quite a lot of money on public projects to get the activity going. It is likely to be a strategy. One of the points in the setting is that we want to stimulate that we can use several Norwegian actors to build Norwegian industry and Norwegian value creation to spend so much public money in public facilities, maintenance, schools, roads, bridges – that kind of project. What does the Council of State think can be a good way to follow up the decision that we should try to use Norwegian business and several Norwegian actors in the future in that type of project?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1164	Let me first stress that it's neither the financial crisis nor the oil price drop we're going to solve now. It's important to remember that this is a completely different type of crisis. It's a crisis we've never faced before, and it's going to be far wider than what we've seen of previous crises and relapses. The oil price drop hit a lot of industry along the coast. There was free capacity in the construction sector. It started business, and it worked. We're concerned that when you start taking down the disease prevention measures, it's time to stimulate the economy faster. I have registered the comment that the Committee has now agreed on. I have also recorded that it is underlined that making the tasks smaller, so that they are more adapted to local and Norwegian working life, nor should it lead to an overall increase in costs. Within those limits, I believe it is possible to get what Stortinget here wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1173	Although this is another type of crisis, it looks like it's a much broader crisis, and we see that society is hit in a completely different way, because you shut down almost the entire Norwegian economy to take care of everyone's public health. It was a public health argument for what we've all been behind. Then it is also important that when opening up, you have to open up as soon as it is public health-friendly – let’s hope it happens quickly – and then it is about doing the activity again in a large part of Norwegian business and working life. A tool we're going to use, thanks to strong government finances, is public business. At least we in the Central Party believe that it is wise to have an industrial strategy. When we are going to spend so much public money on different projects, we need to strengthen Norwegian business and Norwegian plant industry and get more Norwegian workers into work. Will the Council of State, with some enthusiasm, begin that work, or will it be with some caution, as I heard in the answer we got now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1178	It's by no means careful, but I'm concerned that we spend the money in a reasonable way. Making it possible for Norwegian actors to take a large and important share of this, I don't think there is any disagreement about it, but we have to do it in such a way that the cost of the community doesn't get higher than they would otherwise have. Of course, we're both going to bet on and build up the industry. Norway has a strong competitive advantage in having resources both in the mountains, in forests, in the sea and on the seabed, and of course there are resources we are going to use to build jobs and values for the future. So I want to add that it's not just public resources that are going to be spent on this. I hope that the Central Party also agrees that we must mobilise private capital. We still have an excessive tax on working capital. I believe it is important that we also help to mobilise more private capital, more that can invest their own money in Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1187	Collective transport is a critical social infrastructure that transports critical personnel. In dealing with this crisis package, the Green Party asked the Ministry of Finance about how they dealt with compensation for lost ticket revenue – a model such as: the counties, the KS, the NHO and the Collective Traffic Association agree that they wish to do so. The answer was then that one would wait for the revised national budget in June, and thought it was enough. Very quickly, the Stortinget discovered that it was not true at all, it would not be enough, and now we know that the money we give today only lasts until a little over Easter. Will the Council of State come back to the Storting to follow up with increased appropriations for public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1192	I would like to stress that even if we are in a crisis that we have never faced before, we must not forget the other major, important societal tasks we have. One of them is to contribute to the green shift, so that when we are gradually to stimulate the economy and help to take care of both jobs and social structures, we have to do so in such a way that we ensure the green shift and implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And part of this is public transport. Since the bourgeois government came into place, we have had a great transition to public transport. The counties have played an important role, and other companies have also played a role. Now Stortinget is channelling funds through the county municipalities. I think that makes sense, but we see that there are other areas where there may be a need. The revised national budget may be one solution, but I have also kept the possibility of making propositions faster than if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1199	I'm glad to hear that. I'm going to ask the question even simpler this time: does the Council of State now see that we don't have enough money for public transport with the appropriations we give today, and quite quickly has to come back with more money to the public companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1205	The government's starting point has been that it was sufficient in this round, and then we've notified that it can be relevant with propositions before the revised national budget. There will be one already on Friday, it may also be relevant with more if necessary. Now Stortinget has set up with 1 billion. kr through the counties, where it is pointed to public transport, but which I was in, there may also be other areas of public transport where there may be a need, and we are ready to provide resources when the need is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1210	The Council of State said that everyone has to contribute, and I fully agree with that. This is a virtue where everyone has to contribute. It's also important for people's sense of justice to see that absolutely everyone is now involved and contributing. The question is, what will happen if people see that there are people who get to enrich themselves roughly at the billions of the community that are now being granted to businesses in the form of necessary cash support to avoid bankruptcy. I wonder what plans the government has, in concrete terms, to ensure that not too much of the money to go to companies that need emergency aid will go directly into the accounts of property companies and property barons – so make sure that the money goes for the purpose. What demands does the government make to ensure that this does not happen, and to ensure that everyone contributes to the virtues of the Council of State – naturally – talks nicely about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1217	There's no government just talking nice about. It is absolutely vital that we get through the crisis we are now facing, that everyone contributes to the work, and that everyone is also involved in taking the bill for it. Now the community takes the most, and I agree that both those who have ownership, and those who have property companies and rents out to others, must also contribute to this. Now we sit and discuss these different criteria with, among other things. LO, and this is one of the themes that everyone is concerned about. I believe that a clear expectation, not only from the government, but also from the Stortinget, from the LO, from the Working Party, from the NHO and from the others, will produce good results. But let me do one concrete example, and that's that, for example. empty companies, those with no employees, should also not be able to participate in the cash support scheme that we have now received. These include: to avoid unprofessional operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1224	Then we look forward to the measures on Friday. Another question concerns the industrial package, which may be a bit deficient. These are good arguments for the entrepreneurial package launched by the government last week, which argues that, for the sake of the Norwegian economy, it is necessary to set up and maintain young farms, and that new activities can quickly be created and unnecessary leavencies in this sector, i.e. new businesses, can be prevented. But these arguments are the same as in my view in order to secure packages for the industry right now, that is to say, to prevent people from being left out unnecessarily – it can happen quickly, because there is a great deal of uncertainty, and there is a lack of order – and to ensure that these growth engines actually keep going and do not stop fast. So why does one type of argument apply to the entrepreneurs and a completely different description of the large companies in the industry? What's the background for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1231	Let me just show that we have also established important tools for the large industrial companies and the large companies, among other things. is 50 billion. kr in the bond market is very important for access to finance for the large companies with many employees. Then I would also like to remind you that it has been two weeks since Norway shut down. Since then, we have put in place three important packages, one in close cooperation with the Stortinget, where the Stortinget strengthened the government's action, which was about worker permitting schemes and income protection. Last week we got a loan facility with government-guaranteed loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, and a bond, and now we get this important cash support for businesses and an important package for entrepreneurs and start-ups. There's a difference between them and big industrial companies. I fully agree that we also need to build up under the strategies we have for the industry in Norway, not least in order to achieve the necessary conversion and bet on new technology, so that we can also reduce emissions and create more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1238	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1243	Norwegian business is in its toughest fight ever. In a short time, we have received a record number of people on leave and unemployed. The NHO membership survey, which was carried out just before the weekend, shows that more than 30 pst. believes that there is a real risk that they may go bankrupt as a result of the coronary virus. Of the questions, 56 states pst. that they have completed the permits, and still say a whole of 75 pst. that it may be appropriate to leave employees on a short notice basis. It's serious. Extensive measures have been taken against the coronary virus, and we need to continue our efforts to reduce the infection. We know it costs, and people and businesses all over the country follow up. Our health depends on the fact that large parts of the business community remain closed. As a result, many enterprises now have little or no income, while fixed costs continue to run. Several schemes have already been put in place to relieve the economic burden on business. Among other things, the country has taken a greater part of the bill for permits and temporary income hedges are introduced for self-employed and freelancers. The changes in the rules of leave help businesses to reduce labour costs as production and income are reduced. Other costs will be more difficult to reduce in the short term and that is why further action is also needed. The compensation scheme with which the government has proposed and worked, and with which many before I have spoken, will help to prevent viable businesses from failing. The scheme implies that the country takes part of the cost of the outbreak of the virus and the measures to protect the infection are passed on to Norwegian enterprises. Under the new scheme, enterprises can receive financial compensation during the months of their activity, and the aim is to help enterprises with the fixed, unavoidable costs. The measure will help business to recover more rapidly once the crisis is over so that employment and value creation can once again be increased. Such compensation is directed against undertakings with a material loss of turnover but which are otherwise viable. The aim is to quickly put in place an efficient and simple system that hits many people and that will be automated as much as possible and based on available data from, among others. Altinn, the Brønnøsund registers and the tax haven. It is important to clarify that there should be a temporary arrangement. First of all, we imagine that it will apply for about two months, but that it can be extended if necessary. I am pleased that Stortinget expresses support for such a temporary compensation scheme. Future jobs are created by people who dare to take a chance and who put their own skills and ideas into practice. Many entrepreneurs are in a vulnerable phase when they build a business. The government has therefore promoted a package of different types of measures targeted specifically at entrepreneurs and growing businesses, which also stimulates growth in the future. The package is close to 5 billion. kr and includes both pure grants, various loans, investment capital and the strengthening of industrial research. The package is designed to meet startup businesses and environments across the country. We have proposed strengthening the start-up and growth grants by 2.5 billion. kr, and I notice that Stortinget strengthens the innovation grant scheme by 100 million. in addition to the proposals of the Government. This will help small and medium-sized companies with development projects that can quickly create new activity and prevent unnecessary lay-offs due to short-term economic problems. In recent years, there have also been many private entrepreneurs and incubators that are gaining momentum on start-up companies and connecting entrepreneurs with investor environments. To help these environments, the government has proposed a 50 million Innovation Norway grant scheme. kr. I'm glad it's now being strengthened by 50 million. kr av Stortinget. The government has also proposed raising the investment capital of Investinor by 1 billion. SEK in 2020, distributed by 350 million. SEK in increased risk capital and SEK 650 million. kr in increased capital contributions. The measure shall stimulate private capital and competence to continue to create and develop profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1271	The Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible for food supply. In the current state of play, an overall rise of concern about international food supply has highlighted the importance and societal criticalness of the activities. One also asks in the form of a decision that the government should implement measures to ensure Norwegian food supply and also increase the capacity to have their own production in a pre-war situation. Hopefully it's not necessary, just as it's usually not necessary to have a fire insurance, but you have it anyway. You have it for emergency reasons. Now we see so many trends in the international food market that we think it's wise to make the insurance premium a little bit higher for safety. What action will the Minister for Industry, responsible for food supply, take to follow up what the Storting wants now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1278	I look forward to being able to read the whole Storting's setting in peace and quiet, printed on paper. It's fast here at Stortinget, so I've just been foamed through it on the iPad. Getting food out at the shops is something that has been a lot of talk about during this coronary crisis. I think it's important in the discussion we have and we're going to have, that we're careful to tell people out there that there's food enough for everyone. We don't have any challenges yet to get food out of the shops, so there's no reason for the panic that we might see a little bit of at first, with hamstering. My impression is also that it has calmed down a little. People have lowered their shoulders a little. We don't see the hamster we saw at first. But that representative is busy, isn't just getting the food out of the store; it's the whole chain. And it's absolutely right that that's what's important here. Then it's important to focus on all of the different things that make us get the food out of the ocean, out of the ground and out of the shops, that we get exported, that we get imported. It looks good for the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1287	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1295	The most important thing we do in this room today is to provide a little more security for people and businesses – security for people who lose their jobs, that they should return to work with renewed strength and with more competence, security for income for people who lose their jobs, or who are on leave, whether you are a regular employee, a student, a temporary employee or a ringleader, and security for the municipality to deliver the best for our children and the elderly, even though they now have a lot of money to fight the pandemic. We're going to have road safety and rail safety when we can start moving again, we're increasing the maintenance of roads, rail and race protection. We need to be sure that the hairdressing salons get through this, and provide support and look forward to the compensation scheme proposed on Friday. We need to be sure that together we're going to solve the big challenges that don't go away with this pandemic. We will continue to solve the greatest global challenge of our time, which is the climate crisis. We will be investing in carbon capture and storage, green shipping and other industrial projects that create jobs in Norway, while resolving the climate crisis. We're going to have security and a little bit more hope that the corner stone company in the individual community will be strengthened by this, and we're going to do everything in our power to ensure the security of a living. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party will subsidize proposals No. 18, 29 and 35, from the Red Party. We have reported this to the Administration of Storting, who has made us aware that it will be technically time consuming, so for their advice on the use of time in an unusual situation, we will notify this support from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1304	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1315	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 is the record, which was voted on at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1815	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1826	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1932	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1942	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. The government is asking for proposals to bring together the rules on the treatment of surplus information promoted in Prop. 4 L of the Criminal Procedures Act. [[2019-2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e1953	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2062	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2072	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The majority calls on the government to facilitate the professional strengthening of the Conciliation Councils and the Councils of Conflict and to strengthen mechanisms that contribute to the increased use of mediation and conflict resolution outside the courts. II The government is asking the government to take concrete action to reduce the costs of the case, so as to reduce the risk of high costs for ordinary people, including facilitating a more judicial process. III The government is asking the courts to actively decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether it has been ‘reasonable to charge the costs’ when determining the costs of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2093	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2112	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Lene Vågslid on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose a digital transport register for all international freight traffic, combined transport and cabotage journeys in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that new electronic consignment notes as foreseen by the CRM Directive are made mandatory.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose necessary regulatory changes to ensure that fines for infringements of technical requirements to the vehicle and the cabotage code can be imposed when the breach is discovered.’ The Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2332	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2342	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2354	A total of 39 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens and Reds the proposals No 13-38, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red the proposals No 39 and 40, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 22, 37 and 38, from Red. Proposal 17 reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to use the Husleiegesetz § 4-6 to set maximum rates for specific rentals at 50 pst. reduction from the level of 1 March 2020 for lessors and lessors with more than 2 secondary dwellings.’;» Suggestion 22 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all municipalities grant deferral of payment of municipal taxes to those who so request. The State guarantees lost revenues and guarantees liquidity through increased discretionary means.» Proposal 37 reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to use Section 4-6 of the Husleiegesetz to set maximum rates for specific rentals at 50 pst. reduction from level 1 March 2020 for enterprises included in the country’s crisis packages.’;» Proposal 38 reads: ‘The government is requesting the return of proposals under the corporate compensation scheme to ensure that lessors of commercial real estate contribute to the reduction of the costs of the enterprises covered.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2398	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–16, 18–21 and 23–36, from Red. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is actively calling on banks to reduce the lending rate rapidly in the same size as the interest rate of the governing body.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to lay down rules requiring banks and insurance undertakings not to pay dividends until further notice, in line with the recommendations of the Financial Supervisory Authority.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to use the opportunity it has as its owner in the DNB to submit proposals for consideration to the forthcoming general meeting that the bank will not pay dividends to its shareholders until further notice.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the standard interest rate, which forms the basis for the interest rate on loans in the Husbanken, Lånekassa and the State pension fund, of the same size as the reduction in the interest on governance, so that it is effective as quickly as possible.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to temporarily reduce the fees and salaries associated with debt collection, including a significantly reduced collection rate, to remove the opportunity to impose heavy pay, reduced scoring and reduced fee for requests for expenses.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to allow the fully-permitated and the beneficiaries of the daily allowance to participate in intra-corporate training and other skills enhancements. The trainees and the unemployed must be able to complete training or pursue training without losing the right to a daily allowance.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government asks the government immediately to set 2 billion. crowns of beauticians and $8 billion. kronor of the framework grant so that municipalities can cover exceptional expenditure arising from the pandemic.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to guarantee that no Norwegian municipalities will be placed under state financial management as a result of a deficit that can be related to the coronary apathy.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals necessary for the fulfilment of the intention set out in Decision No. 421 of 19 March 2020.’ [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through regional development funds to set up/strengthen municipal food funds to stimulate conversion and further development in local enterprises.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government requests the provision of security of income, through the municipality or other appropriate government agencies, for callers, temporary staff, students and others without a permanent job and income, who do not have sufficient earnings, based on watch lists or average income for the last 1 or 3 months.’; Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that persons who are in a withdrawal period or who have applied for the recovery of the AAP after the end of the withdrawal period are automatically granted a reinstatement of the benefit.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that non-resident workers with day-to-day benefits in Norway are granted the benefits they are entitled to, even if they have been permanently resident abroad.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that VTA employees, employees of employers with wage subsidies and action participants continue to receive wages and benefits. Action organisers shall be compensated.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that those who are outsourced are not thrown out of the pension scheme’.» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the maximum period of leave to 52 weeks.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide public assignments and increased subsidies to the Norwegian supplier industry and shipyards within, inter alia: 1st@item: inlistbox Maintenance on public-owned ships. 2nd@item: inlistbox Low-emission ferry construction work. 3rd@item: inlistbox Accelerate the planned improvement of ports. 4th@item: inlistbox Re-fitting/upgrading environmental ecology on ships. 5th@item: inlistbox Plugging of oil wells. 6th@item: inlistbox New mermaids for rearing.’» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to map public assignments to the Norwegian supplier industry and shipyards that can be planned, scaled up and forced and quickly returned to the Stortinget with proposals for projects.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: «The government is asking the government to speed up public projects in the construction sector and to continue all public projects that are sound.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure more apprenticeships and to strengthen vocational training in order to cover labour shortages.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to facilitate and actively implement binding labour loan agreements between the enterprises, the corresponding unemployment scheme between entrepreneurs in Oslo, and schemes that allow for the participation of persons on leave in other sectors with labour shortages.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return with increased grants to regional development funds and local food funds.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2531	The Socialist Left Party shall support some of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2536	It should have been notified earlier. We can make a comment on the proposals supported by the Socialist Left. Is it all right for the representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, to do so in retrospect?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2541	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2546	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2559	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 and 40, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Purpose Kroner 2410 State Loan Fund for Education 70 Educational scholarships, allocation of estimates, increased by... 3 600000000 from NOK 3 552 532 000 to NOK 7 152 532 000 ’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Purpose Kroner 5521 VAT 70 VAT, reduced by... 440 000 000 from NOK 324 010000000 to NOK 323 570000000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e2597	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-11, from the Greens/Reds/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The budget proposes that all students be offered a grant equal to NOK 31 200 for students who need it as a result of loss of income as a result of the coronary eruption. Those who are unable to document loss of income will be converted into a loan.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow closely the situation of part-time students who have lost substantial income and to come back with a fairer system adapted to the individual’s loss of income as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a compensation scheme for collective and ferry companies, which compensates for the loss of ticket revenue as a result of the measures put in place by the authorities, through State compensation/subsidies directly to the county or county administrative companies, and returns to Stortinget with a proposal in good time before the revised national budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The changes in V enter into force on 1 April 2020 and apply until 31 December 2020.’;» [[reduce the lowest VAT rate from 12 to 7 pst.]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to consider granting to cultural service providers who are currently exempt from VAT the right to request exemption from VAT so that they can benefit from a deduction of VAT costs. This shall apply initially from 1 January 2020 until 31 December 2020.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for increased appropriations for NVE’s work on flood and naval prevention.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for increased appropriations for Enova’s work on green conversion and electrification of Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for increased appropriations for county municipalities, earmarked investments in emission-free and low-emission public transport such as ferries and speedboats, and increased appropriations for national road haulage services.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the instrument for support for ENØC investment in housing and commercial buildings and for proposals for reinforced incentives for such investments.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government requests review of the instrument to support the installation of solar installations in residential and commercial buildings and to propose reinforced incentives for such investments.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased efforts for maintenance work on the road and rail and to return to the Stortinget with proposals to this effect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e4576	The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e4782	It is votted first over B III, XXIX and XXXI. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e4796	It goes over the rest of B.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e4862	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-31.ana.ud64e4872	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
