ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e119	The representatives of Une Bastholm and Terje Aasland, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e136	The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 4 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e156	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e172	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e188	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e204	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e221	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e238	Audun Lyssbakken drew first, and it seems that the case rapporteur, Harek Elvenes, believes that the Lightbakken can get the word first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e243	This is a matter which Stortinget has had to deal with earlier, and which is now being extended. It is a legislative proposal which involves a rather drastic response to the staff it concerns, and which we, the SV, believe does not defend the current situation. We are a completely different place from ours, because we now have experience in dealing with this crisis, and experience is that what is at the root of the Norwegian model, namely the combination of employer governance and extensive cooperation and volunteering, works very well. SV was critical already when this temporary arrangement came into effect for the first time, and we believe that the development in retrospect has shown that we had a good basis for it. It turns out that this temporary law has not been in force, so we have great doubts about the basis for extending it. I would also like to say that the procedure here is under any criticism. Here it is operated with a consultation period on the part of the government which has in fact been only three working days. It's not good for trust in processes and the system. Trust and cooperation between the social partners is the key to good solutions, and then the country must go ahead. I understand why we were in a hurry when the first draft of the law came, but that we should have this kind of urgency with both consultation and deliberation in this round, cannot be the result of anything other than abduction from the government, and I do not think that is right. Therefore, I would like to be clear to the Council of State that if it were to be relevant with yet another extension, the government would have to be out of time, so that both stakeholders and the Stortinget could have time for a more thorough process and a proper consultation. We believe it is good that Stortinget intervenes and sets the law's revocation date until 1 February. It just gives us a better continuous control and an opportunity for a new round if necessary. But I would like to ask you to note the strong objections that have come from the Norwegian Civil Service team. When the employee side is so clear that they believe this goes too far, we believe that it would be wise for the Storting to listen. This is a problem that can be solved without this type of in-depth legislation now. So despite the fact that we are happy that the Storting changes the duration, we believe that both the principal and the practical objections are so clear that we want to maintain SV's original proposal, which is to vote against an extension of the law. So SV's group is going to go against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e256	It is proposed to extend the duration of the temporary law on the management of defence personnel in order to remedy the consequences of covid-19. The Provisional Law provides the Defence with a limited authority to order against civil servants in the Defence where this is strictly necessary to ensure that the Defence can maintain operational capability, preparedness and strength production through the Covid-19 pandemic. The law further empowers the defence to take strictly necessary measures to limit the spread of infection, both within and outside the working hours, against military personnel, civil servants within the service and civil servants. The Committee agrees that the temporary law on the management of defence personnel in order to remedy the consequences of covid-19 intends to address these issues. The Committee notes that the pandemic continues to pose a significant risk and therefore proposes to extend the duration of the law until 1 February 2021 without other amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e265	I am pleased that the majority of the committee is proposing the temporary law on the management of defence personnel extended. The task of the defence is to ensure the sovereignty, security and independence of Norway, including through a pandemic. So the defense has to be operational with its departments regardless of what else is going on, and we have to take some other considerations into account. The defence is in a situation where infection protection is to be carried out internally in the camps' departments, but also monitor what is happening on the outside of the camps. The fact that we have staff living outside and working in the camps means that we need to take some extra consideration. The law provides the Defense Flexibility if necessary. It shall be used with caution. It shall also be used in consultation with the personnel so that it does not feel like an infringement. But I think we should be careful to say that the situation now is not as it was in March. I think that's actually one of the biggest mistakes we can make -- trying to relax the infection protection and the understanding that we're in a pandemic. It is in that image that the defense has asked for an extension and we have proposed it. Then I have great respect for the fact that we could have worked more closely with the hearing replies. There was also a campaign in the consultation round – we received 700 hearing replies accusing the government of using military personnel to force civilian vaccination. It's been a messy debate. We notice that we need to be more thorough in hearings. We're going to work harder to create that trust. In conclusion, when it is said that we have not needed to use the law, it is quite right. It comes from the fact that the defence generally has the good dialogue, trust-based management and understanding in the departments because what we're doing now is difficult. We have called security officers in our camps, regardless of the pandemic, introduced additional measures to protect the infection and avoided outbreaks of infection in the camps. This is a difficult task with both military and civil personnel in the sector. We also continue to work closely with the employee organisations. This is not how all the employee organisations said no. The majority of respondents believe that there is a need. We're not going to ignore anyone. We need a good dialogue. I also take with me the wish from Stortinget that we spend more time preparing if it would be necessary to extend the bill later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e299	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a sequence change of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e306	Although we are still affected by the ongoing pandemic, it is very good that large sections of society are back to normal. That is why we are slowly, but surely, reversing the most intrusive measures and the corresponding compensatory arrangements. However, it is natural — and agreed — to extend the temporary derogations from the curtailment rules for old age pensions, mentioned in this proposition. There is a great deal of consensus in the Storting about standing together in crises, but when it comes to extending these arrangements to new groups at a time when exceptional measures have expired, we disagree. That is why I now turn to the special remarks from the Right and Christian People's Party. We're glad society goes back to normal. At the same time, we are grateful to those who have set up. Of course, it is not to be punished to be ordered or to volunteer back into working life to remedy a crisis, but when the need for extraordinary staffing is over, we do not want to extend the scheme to more. Like all other measures, government parties will adapt them to the situation, but the opposition, including the Advance Party, will now extend the scheme even if the need is reduced. Some believe that the exemption scheme is a concession of a so-called coordination trap, but those who belong to the relevant annual rates after the pension agreement have both an early retirement scheme and a gross scheme that makes it profitable to withdraw from the labour market. If the salary had not been curtailed, you would have been able to withdraw a pension early and continue with full pay in the job. The reason why employees in the private sector can receive both social security and occupational pension without curtailment is that they pay for early retirement through a lower annual pension. Officials in the relevant year-olds do not receive a lower life-long pension even if they leave early with the AFP or at special age. In any case, I believe that those who choose to remain in office cannot be compared to those who have actually retired from the pension and then have been ordered or volunteered as a result of an extraordinary need for additional personnel under a global, deadly pandemic. Using this as a crutch to promote demands to take out more in both pensions and wages than the generational solidarity of the pension agreement erodes our gratitude to those who have set up to save life and health under the pandemic. The government parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party are both grateful and responsible. There's no contradiction in this. That's why we're dealing with the proposition as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e321	Many people have made a great effort to keep wheels running in Norway through a difficult time. For many years, the authorities have known that a pandemic would come, and that it would challenge our health care system in particular, but when the pandemic came, lack of respirators, anti-infection equipment and medicines was what marked the news picture. There was an urgent purchase of local breathing machines, the sanitary women south of the infected coats, the companies converted their production to have enough hand alcohol, and the hospital pharmacists worked intensively to avoid endangering the life and health of the drug shortage that followed the pandemic. In order to ensure adequate health professionals, qualified health professionals were mobilised to work in the public health system, and the issue today is to continue a system where retired health workers do not receive a curtailment in their pensions when they resume work in the healthcare system. The working party assumes that this may apply to more than those who have contributed the necessary work during the pandemic. An obvious group should be the ones working with clean-up in the whole community. The Labour Party believes that it is necessary for the government to assess whether the scheme should apply to more groups and to return to the Stortingen with this assessment. In the case of staff assigned to the service of health services, we believe that they should be treated in the same way as other health professionals. This will ensure that, for example: hospital pharmacists can treat those who were ordered to resume work after they became retired, like others in the present case, so that they are thus exempted from the rules on curtailment of their pension. I address the proposal that the Workers' Party is promoting together with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e334	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e339	The proposal we are discussing today is a follow-up to the already adopted and temporary changes which mean that pensioners who make up to help during the corona epidemic will not be curtailed by coordination. In the government's original proposal, one reason was that the pharmacies sector was to be included in the exemption provisions for coordination, but, in our opinion, excluded an important part of the staff under the Health and Social Protection Act § 1-3(h), namely pharmacies, wholesalers and pharmaceutical manufacturers. In practice, such omission could mean that all the country's hospital pharmacy was excluded from the scheme. The Progress Party does not think that is a good thing. Although we have to hope and believe that the corona epidemic does not present long-term challenges, it is important that we ensure access to important personnel when necessary. A curtailment through the coordination of pensions for those who make up the pension if necessary is therefore, in our opinion, a bad idea. The Korona epidemic is not over. Even though we now have better control than when the first wave hit us in ours, there may be situations that make it necessary to pick up additional personnel in the future. Then we have to be at the forefront, so that the manning of important functions is ensured. The Progress Party therefore proposed, during the Committee's proceedings, that the health and social protection workers under Section 1-3(h) of the Health and Social Protection Act should also be included in the exemption provisions. This means, among other things: that pharmacists employed in hospitals are included in the scheme. These include: for the production of contrast media for PET scanners, for the production and preparation of cell poisons administered to cancer patients, in addition to medical supplies to specialist health services. There can be no doubt that these are important functions to ensure staffing. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the proposal to include these derogations is supported by a majority of the Committee. However, it is disappointing to see that neither the Right Party nor the Christian People's Party will support this. That's not how the Right Party and the Christian People's Party write in their comments, that we're back to a more normal situation. We see on the contrary that more and more people are infected by the corona. If there's a new general wave of infection, we don't know yet. We also don't know how it will affect important functions in the future. But the Progress Party will not sit passive and watch. We have to be at the forefront and make sure the necessary rules are in place. We are pleased that pensioners in several important professions and functions present themselves, if necessary, under the pandemic. It should be quite clear that it should not punish itself financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e356	In the current pandemic situation, the government proposes that income from voluntary work in public health services or from private individuals who, under law or agreement, provide health services to the population should not result in a curtailment or retirement of pensions for a limited period from 1 November 2020 to 31 July 2021. The central party supports the government's proposal at this point. We also support an additional proposal to extend the scheme to professionals who provide the ordered service under the Health and Social Protection Act, and we go further in order to exempt more groups, such as hospital workers, from curtailment in the old age pension. The centre party has a very specific comment, in which we put this proposal for a temporary amendment of the law for some groups into a general comment and a holistic approach in which the matter belongs, namely the debate on the removal of the coordination cases. The coordination is based on the fact that when government employees with occupational pensions work beyond the age of 67 including the adjustment of their life expectancy, they will decrease and fall away, depending on the length of their work beyond the retirement age, and the amount of the pension. This is fundamentally contrary to the pension reform, namely that it should pay off to work longer. Right and Christian People's Party says in a note that ‘to choose to remain in a position is not comparable to those ordered or volunteered after retirement as a result of an exceptional need for additional personnel under a global deadly pandemic’. Well, continuing to work or volunteering to solve an extraordinary problem is both voluntary and can therefore be compared — as a matter of fact. The centre party points to two points that give rise to problems, the other being, in particular, the main problem: if a person re-enters a public position, not only the occupational pension is stopped but the public service pension is recalculated. It is converted so that the longer the position, the lower the occupational pension. The comments of the right and Christian People's Party interfere with the situation of those who end before 67 years, and say they have advantages, and then those who work after 67 years will have disadvantages. It's usually completely absurd. The centre party agrees to remove the coordination agreement, which means that government employees will not receive a higher pension the longer they work. The proposal of the centre party, and I would like to emphasise that, is also in line with what a party selection recommended in 2009, namely that one should have 67 years plus as a fixed point throughout this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e378	The current legislative proposal facilitates, where necessary, the mobilisation of qualified and necessary personnel to work in the health sector to combat the coronary apathy. The proposal implies that labour income from such work does not shorten public service pension until 1 July 202l. I am pleased that the Committee supports this proposal. The proposal facilitates voluntary recruitment of pensioners. In a pandemic situation, the overall aim is for public health services to maintain the necessary health care. The proposal also applies to those who may be ordered to serve. There is no reason to discriminate on a voluntary basis and to order personnel in this case. The majority of the Committee would like the exemption scheme to be extended to pensioners working at pharmacies, including hospital pharmacy. I will follow up on this in a legislative proposal to Stortinget later this fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e392	The reason for this matter is the coordination agreement, which the government has set in motion in a deserving way. But what's interesting is the comments of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, where they give the impression that those who retire before 67 years of age have an advantage, and that's why those who retire after 67 years of age, including life expectancy adjustment, have to take on a disadvantage that means that their longer one is in work beyond 67 years of age plus, the lower one becomes the service pension when one coordinates it with the retirement pension. We know that the old-age pension is a stock, and when one divides that stock into fewer years, the old-age pension increases, and by coordination, the occupational pension can go to zero. My question is: does the Government Council agree with the government party's argument in the comments on the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e399	Let me start by saying that as the Council of State, I follow up the majority decisions taken in the Stortinget. That being said, the representative, Lundtigen, has also promoted his own proposal on the whole issue of coordination, which we will be considering later. With regard to this specific matter, I believe that there is a difference between making exceptions when there is a great shortage in an acute health crisis and waiving key principles that apply to all public employees, in our pension system. That is why I think it is a discussion that we should, of course, decide on here in the Storting, but it comes in a later representative proposal from the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e405	Thanks for the answer. We'll take that discussion later, seafaringly, but it's also interesting now, because in this situation it's not just order, it's also voluntary effort, which we in the Center Party are proud of. This matter was discussed in depth in 2009, and the current government stressed that it should have a selection of parties that discussed it. The party-group then agreed to have a fixed point in this, which was at 67 years of age to determine the age-retirement conditions. If a job was any longer, the occupational pension would not be reduced as a result. Is there a review that the Council of State wants to address this matter – look at the submission of the sample of the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e412	As it is now organised, it is a result of the agreement of the party in 2009. Then, of course, we will always have to evaluate and discuss the pension reforms that are being carried out, including with the parties. However, with regard to this specific matter that Stortinget is dealing with today, I believe it is isolated as such. Then I look forward to the debate I will have with Mr Lundtigen and Mr Stortinget on his own proposal for a representative, which will come up in a month's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e417	I'm going to stick to what's going on today, and I'm going to ask the government council what reasons he has to exempt exactly those who work in hospital hospitals, in the work done with exceptional rules, when there are other health professionals who are important for us getting through the pandemic. Illuminated as it is, among others. Today, unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity to hear this matter, because it has been quite a short time on it, but I think it is quite easy to understand that those who work in hospital hospitals have had a special role in ensuring that we have had enough medicine and equipment in the demanding situation we have. So why does the limit go exactly so that you don't include that group?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e422	As the majority of the Committee also notes, it is considered that it should be considered to include more people who have taken additional work because there has been a lack of skilled labour. Therefore, this will be assessed continuously by the undersigned and the government as well. The scope will, of course, be extended to several groups if the situation and personnel shortage so require. But I think we have to admit that we are now in an unpredictable time, and we have done so far for half a year already. That means that we have to follow developments closely, but the delimitation that is set, we believe is right for the need that we see right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e427	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e446	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. After what the President can see, no one is asking for the floor in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e467	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e474	There is a single committee which sees the need for an extension of the temporary law on restrictions on the entry of foreigners on public health concerns and temporary extension of the foreign law, as proposed by the government, until 1 June 2021. An adjustment shall be made to the laws on the admission of non-residents with visas and clarification of the deportation visas. This supports the Committee. Then the committee has in its own proposal, which the whole committee is behind, that the government should facilitate visits to Norway to close families. The government has continually assessed relaxations in the legislation and will also do so in the future, as I understand it. And I understand correctly, it was made easier during visits to close family already on Friday 16 October, so that decision seems to be fulfilled. Only SV have their own suggestions, and I expect them to do their own thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e485	We support both the law and the supplementary proposal that the Committee has put forward, but we believe that there is now reason to consider the extent of some of these restrictions – also because we have been made aware that there are now fewer places to apply for a visa to Norway, which makes it very difficult for many to obtain. The protection of the family and human rights is strong, and it is important that the travel restrictions we now have are no more intrusive than is absolutely necessary. We have received many enquiries. These include: set up a Facebook group called ‘We who want our parents from non-EU countries to visit’. It is now beginning to be a very long time before family members can see each other. That is why we have addressed this proposal. And that's also because entries like this are possible, with testing both before and when you arrive, and then you also have a home – a place where you can be quarantined. It is both important and right that we now have good measures to prevent the spread of infection, but we also need not have measures that are more stringent than necessary or that are not perceived as just when looking at other things that are allowed. We have also noticed that the government believes that in order for a person to get a visa to Norway as a girlfriend, one must have been a girlfriend for nine months. I don't know exactly where you got that number from, but we think it's very random. When you make that kind of rule, it may not be the length of the relationship you have to look at – it may, as you know, spread after many years as well, it is no guarantee – but that this is a real love relationship, rather than setting such a somewhat random date. We promote a proposal where we ‘ask the government to apply for visas at several foreign stations and to open up visits to close family, partner or girlfriends where quarantine can be carried out in suitable housing’. I'm dealing with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e500	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e505	In March, we introduced the most stringent measures in Norway since the war to meet the pandemic. We closed schools, kindergartens, universities, theaters, cinemas, sports and workplaces. There were also, naturally and correctly, strong restrictions on travel both within the realm and into and out of the realm. The restrictions imposed by the restrictions on entry have naturally resulted in a very high level of involvement. The restrictions have prevented people from seeing their loved ones, and too many have experienced this as an improper and disproportionate interference in the individual's freedom. And perhaps the need has been particularly great at a time of very great uncertainty for both society and the individual. We have also seen strong hearings, for example. from the Facebook group ‘We who want our parents from non-EU countries on a visit’, with approx. 1000 members, who believe that more family members should be visited than today, as grandparents and grandchildren. The restrictions on entry also affect boyfriends, cohabitants and spouses who, for various reasons, fall outside the scope of the legislation. That is why I am very pleased that a joint committee today has joined in on the Workers' Party's proposal that 'The UK asks the government to make appropriate arrangements for visits to Norway to close families, partners or girlfriends to be carried out within the framework of anti-virus advice'. We in the Workers' Party, and probably many of my colleagues from other parties in the Committee, have heard many heartbreaking stories about when the country shut down, about families, girlfriends and spouses who didn't see each other. We have asked for a solution from the government several times without anything happening. Now that we've got a joint committee asking the government to facilitate that those who are waiting to be reunited with their loved ones get the chance to do so, we also hope that it can happen quickly. There were solutions this summer. Now we have to build on the modest solutions, and the solutions have recently been found, as the case-rapporteur pointed out. But we cannot underestimate the negative consequences, including the health consequences, for someone who is kept away from those they are happy with. So today is a good day. Within what is available in the field of infectious diseases, I assume that the government will immediately follow this up, so that the waiting time for the many who have been away from their loved ones will not be longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e522	I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to extend the temporary rules on restrictions on entry and meetings in the Foreign Office as part of the management of the covid-19 pandemic. I would also like to thank Stortinget for dealing with the matter so quickly. I would like to stress that although the proposal proposes that the temporary law on restrictions on entry into force be applied until 1 June next year, there is no doubt that restrictions on entry are needed until that date. However, the legislative proposal ensures that we can continue to have restrictions to the extent that it turns out to be necessary. The government is very understanding of the difficulties these restrictions bring to individuals, businesses and cultural life. We have been gradually making decorations since the introduction of restrictions on entry in March, and last week the government decided to open up a wider circle of family members to visit relatives in Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: grandparents. The regulatory changes will be in place tomorrow. If the infection situation so warrants, we will continue to open up to further groups. It is important that the relaxation is gradual and controlled. We have sacrificed a lot to get the infection under control in Norway, and it is important that we maintain this control. In addition to the measures taken to limit the spread in Norway, it is important to limit further transmission of the virus from abroad. Norway participates in the European coordination processes for changes in the restrictions on entry, both across the external borders and for travel within the EU and Schengen territory. These changes must be based on a sound health professional base. The abolition of travel restrictions must take place gradually and at the rate allowed by the situation of infection in the various countries. I also think it is important to extend the temporary rules on student meetings in the Study of Foreign Affairs. It contributes, inter alia, to: to prevent attendances from being postponed as a result of the situation. The legal certainty of non-residents is important. Therefore, if the rules are to be applied, it is an absolute requirement that it must be inconspicuous for non-residents. The general rule will continue to be that attend meetings are to be held in an ordinary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e539	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e544	Just a brief question to the Council of State: today, there is a total mass that makes a request that focuses in particular on ‘near family’ and other close acquaintances. I understand that this is going to happen – also as a prerequisite for the decision – within the framework of anti-virus advice and with the limitations resulting from it, but is it possible for the Council of State to say something about how and in what time perspective she sees itself following this request from the Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e549	The good news is that I think it's already being followed up. We make regular assessments of this, as we have promised, and last Thursday we sent out a press release that we were going to make changes for grandparents and for children and stepchildren, and expand this circuit, as we had suggested earlier. And the whole reason why I'm doing this is because I don't know what I'm doing, and I'm doing it over time, and I'm doing it over time. This rule will be in place tomorrow. Then we have to look at how we can open up further, but there are now very few groups that cannot come to Norway. It's about tourists – they can't come to Norway – or people who don't have an errand, and also siblings, adult siblings. So it's now a very limited group that can't come, but we'll open as soon as it's infective professionally sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e556	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister of Justice stresses this with the UN meetings on the subject, that it is unthinkable for the applicant to have this online. But when the Council of State says that now almost no one can come to Norway, it's about one of the points in our proposal, namely the possibility of applying for a visa, because it's very difficult. Once the receipt of a visa has been very limited because you have had shut-downs also in foreign stations, it is difficult. And it's not that you can't get infected because if you come from a European country – there are many countries in the world that have a much lower infection than in Norway, but where it can be difficult to get to a foreign station. Can the Council of State say a little bit now if it's working to open it to apply for visas in several places, so this won't be impossible for that reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e564	There has been a demanding situation in applying for visas because a number of stations have been shut down, and a number of application centres — this being outsourced to external application centres in a number of places — have also been shut down. Now I have been informed that we have 126 application centres abroad, and 115 of these are open, so the vast majority are open. Where it is not open, our foreign stations are working to assist you in obtaining a visa. But when this is still a problem, it's about different infections in different countries, and just as we in Norway have shut down public services, so they do it abroad. But this is very clear to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and foreign agencies are going to help remedy the situation if you don't get to application centres that are shut down. But 115 of 126 are open.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e569	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e586	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e603	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 3 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e610	The Government has submitted proposals to extend the duration of Chapter 2 of the Temporary Act of 26 May 2020 No. 53 on adaptations to the Introduction Act to address problems arising from the control measures against the covid-19 epidemic. This is a short and good thing about facilitating the optimal adaptation and implementation of training in Norwegian, Norwegian and Norwegian values, even under the circumstances of the disease prevention measures. The Committee's nomination is promoted by all parties, other than the Advance Party, which have their own observations on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e619	The progress party does not have so many own comments on the matter, so I thought I would explain briefly our view here. We are going to vote against this case because we believe that it should not be necessary to continue these provisions, at least not all, because most of the arrangements mentioned can go as normal. We are afraid that some municipalities may be able to deprioritise the implementation of these services in a good way, and this may have significant consequences for individual immigrants, who need to be well followed and well trained in e.g. Norwegian and social sciences. It's especially sections 8 and 9 that we're skeptical about, which can give the municipalities a leeway to maybe down-prioritising important tasks. We trust that most people will follow this in a good way, but we already see today, even without the Corona situation, that some municipalities might take a little light on these services, which are to be carried out as long as they get the money from the state. So we're going to vote against the extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e628	In the spring, it was not possible for municipalities and participants to implement the arrangements in the introduction law as normal. Both training and introduction programmes were affected. The size therefore adopted a temporary law with adaptations to the Introduction Act, in order to ensure flexibility and respect for the rights of participants in periods of covid-19 outbreaks. The systems of the Introduction Act can now be implemented almost normally, but with measures to protect infection. However, situations may arise in which there is increased infection and where more invasive measures for the protection of infection are needed locally. Nor can it be excluded that there may be a need for national measures for the protection of infection affecting the systems. We therefore believe that there is still a need for temporary rules that contribute to ensuring that participants enjoy their rights to the fullest extent possible under the Introduction Act, while allowing for the necessary adaptations to a situation of invasive disease protection measures. I therefore propose to extend until 1 July 2021 the duration of Chapter 2 of the Temporary Act on adaptations to the Introduction Act. These provisions only provide for deviations which are necessary due to measures to protect infection and an extension does not alter this. In order to provide a stable framework for municipalities and participants, I propose to extend most of the adaptations without substantive changes. However, I propose one change concerning the introduction program. The municipalities have now gained experience in providing programmes during periods of restriction. I therefore believe that the municipalities will no longer be able to postpone the start of the programme for new participants because of the infection situation. Where it is not possible to make an offer, the municipalities have sufficient flexibility in the rules applicable to those already participating in the programme. Local authorities have made good efforts to support participants in training and introduction programmes during this difficult period. I hope and believe that the extension of the temporary rules provides a stable framework and sufficient flexibility for the good work to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e641	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e659	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e676	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e698	This interpellation was originally sent to Minister for Climate and Environment, Rotevatn, but was forwarded to Minister for Oil and Energy Bru. It's good and good, although I think it's as much a climate and environmental issue as an energy issue. Norway has great ambitions to become a greener society, and that is good. But I am calling for a more comprehensive discussion on where to go. As much as addressing this question to the Minister for Oil and Energy, I should have liked to have seen all the parties that are busy cutting down the oil and gas business respond to: How are we going to replace the power needs in the industrial and transport sectors when oil and gas are phased out? In 2018, Statnett calculated what it will require of power to electrify society. Power consumption in Norway is about 133 TWh. This energy production is approximately 100 pst. renewable hydropower, with approx. 4 pst. wind power input. But if we look at total energy consumption, we have to add 143 TWh fossil energy that today goes to transport, industry, construction and other industrial activities. It is this force that needs to be replaced if we are to reduce CO 2 emissions. If we replace most of today's fossil energy use with electricity, we get an increase in power consumption of 30-50 TWh per year. However, this does not include parts of industry and heavy or long-distance transport. So if we're going to be fully electrified with zero emissions in the energy system using hydrogen, we're going to have to add another 40 TWh. If we're going to produce hydrogen without CO 2 emissions, we have to use electricity to produce hydrogen gas via electrolysis, but the power loss in the conversion of electricity into hydrogen can unfortunately be 75 pst. Thus, the use of electricity to generate hydrogen for industrial processes or transport requires around three times higher power consumption than the direct use of electricity. Based on this, Statnet estimates an increased need of 80 TWh of electricity to fully electrify Norway, including hydrogen as an energy carrier. The NVE's estimate that total power consumption will increase to 159 TWh in 2040 was not taken into account. Then we almost have to have another 30 TWh. Nor has it taken into account any increased power requirements in the industry or that we should be able to produce so much hydrogen to export it, if it is to become the new industrial venture. But let's be sober to the electrification and look at a scenario of 80 TWh increase. 80 TWh is very much electricity, so much so that the very largest power plants in Norway together produce less than one third of this. So the big question is, where is all this electricity going to come from? The NVE has estimated that the potential for upgrading and extensions in Norwegian hydropower is around 6-8 TWh. Norway was the net importer in force in 2019, for the first time since 2010, i.e. That we used everything we produced. From that point of view, we just need 74 TWh of electricity to be fully electrified. 42 wind turbines are in operation in the first quarter of 2020, or approx. 850 windmills. In total, they shall have a normal annual production of 8.2 TWh. In 2019, wind power production was 5.5 TWh. That is, we have to build at least 6,840 wind turbines to get to the goal. Knowing that seven wind turbines are sufficient to destroy a local environment, now on Haram Island, it is unrealistic that the increased power demand should be filled by wind power. All scenarios in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report on what is needed to limit heating to 1.5 degrees show that the share of nuclear power needs to be greatly increased. In the most extreme cases, the proportion must almost double by 2030 and triple by 2050. Nuclear power, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, is one of the few sources of energy that can contribute significantly to global power generation without emissions of CO 2 and other greenhouse gases, on a scale that makes a difference. I'm afraid many connect nuclear power to Eastern bloc land and nuclear accidents. The reality is that by May 2020 there are 451 nuclear power plants in 31 countries, 126 of which are located in Europe. It is not certain that there are so many who are aware that Sweden has eight reactors, Finland has four and two new under construction, France has 58 reactors and new under construction, UK has 15 and builds new ones, Spain, Belgium and Germany have seven each, Switzerland has four, the Netherlands has one and plans new ones. The total effect of these is approx. 3 200 TWh electricity. So 54 new nuclear power plants in 19 countries are under development. China and India have the highest rates, with eleven and seven new reactors respectively. So internationally, the energy calculation has been carried out and it has been concluded that nuclear power is the only energy source that monks. Many of these countries are also involved in the development of new reactors, the so-called salt-melting reactor, which is completely safe in terms of melting and much more efficient than the traditional reactor. Not least it can translate 98 pst. of the radioactive waste to non-hazardous compounds. These reactors are excellent for using thorium as fuel. The cost of getting rid of the radioactive waste from our old reactors is estimated at 20 billion. kr. Why not use it for initial investment that can transform this waste into power? Norway sits on some of the largest thorium deposits in the world, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency – a CO 2 -free power source similar to approximately one. 2 300 years of power generation with current consumption, where one 1 000 megawatt power plant of the size of two housing houses provides an energy equivalent to an area of 1 300 km 2 with windmills, or approx. Three times Oslo's size. Thorium was introduced as a theme in April 2006. Following an inter-pelling debate, thorium was carefully put on the political agenda, and in 2007 the Norwegian Research Council set up the thorium committee on behalf of the then Minister of Energy Odd Roger Enoxen in the Stoltenberg II government. The Thorium Committee was mandated to establish the best possible factual basis for both the possibility and the risk of using the element for long-term energy production. However, the report from the sample was scarcely produced, before the newly released oil and energy minister Åslaug Haga proclaimed that the report did not justify either rejecting or embracing thorium as a fuel, but that the government in any case did not intend to allow the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway. In 2009–2013, the right had programmed nuclear research and development in Norway, primarily with thorium as a fuel. The Sundvolden Declaration stated in 2013 that the government, consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party, would establish a research centre for environmentally friendly energy for thorium, but unfortunately did not hear it in the Stortinget. Once again the idea of thorium was put in the drawer. Environmental organisations are not reprehensible, but they think it will take too long, that we don't have time to wait to develop it. But developments are ragingly fast abroad. The United States must have completed a completely new saline melting reactor in seven years. The company of Bill Gates has received funds to develop it further, and they are planning to invest a total of 3.2 billion. dollar in new reactor design over the next seven years. And Canada does the same thing. My question is therefore: Will the Minister for Oil and Energy do as the rest of the world and consider allowing Norway to contribute to the development of this environmentally friendly power source?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e745	Questions about a thorium stake in Norway have been handled by my department on previous occasions, and it is therefore natural that I respond to this interpellation. Research and technological development are necessary to meet the low-carbon society. You can imagine a lot of potential game-changers in the future, whether it's hydrogen, CCS, thorium or other technologies. The reality here and now is that the hydropower is the backbone of our energy supply, and that wind power is the cheapest clean option. Questions about developing thorium power in Norway and extracting thorium deposits we have here in the country have been dealt with politically several times. The use of nuclear power was dealt with in depth in the 1970s. The construction of nuclear power was not supported by Stortinget during the treatment, and since then nuclear power has not been a real alternative in the Norwegian energy supply. In 2008, the so-called thorium committee produced a report on thorium in Norway. The committee was set up by the Norwegian Research Council on behalf of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In its report, the sample showed that the knowledge of thorium-based energy production and geology in the Fensfield was not solid enough to provide a final assessment of the use and use of thorium in Norway. The report shows, among other things: for significant research and development work to be carried out before thorium-based nuclear power can become a reality. The report goes on to say that thorium for nuclear power generation does not eliminate the problem of radioactive residues, but that the waste problems are likely to be less than with uranium-based solutions. The then government therefore concluded that the report of the thorium committee does not provide a basis for a change in nuclear policy and that it does not provide a basis for neither supporting nor rejecting thorium for long-term energy production. Norway has potential thorium reserves, but since no major specific studies of thorium deposits have been carried out in Norway, there is limited knowledge of thorium concentration and volume in relevant areas. The government’s political platform in 2013 expressed the objective of setting up a research centre for environmentally friendly energy for thorium. However, there was no basis for establishing such a centre, including: because there was insufficient interest from business. In the 2017 RNB, 8 million were granted. kr for the identification of mineral deposits in the Fensfield of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. The aid went to two core holes to investigate the extent of the elements niobium, thorium and rare earth metals, REE. The availability of niobium and rare soils is classified as critical for industry. The results presented by NGU, Norway’s geological survey, in February 2019 showed that the rock containing rare earth metals can be followed to the bottom of both boreholes, but the content varies. The thorium content of these samples was low. Therefore, extraction of Norwegian thorium resources is not straightforward. Thorium deposits in Norway are economically and technically challenging to extract. A reactor that can commercially use thorium as a fuel will lie many years ahead, and there are now sources of thorium in other countries that are both cheaper and more readily available. I believe that the investigations and assessments I have shown here suggest that we should not give priority to a thorium investment in Norway now. On the other hand, I share the representative's wish that we should achieve the climate objectives we have set in the Paris Agreement. In order to meet the energy climate challenges, research efforts in Norway should focus on areas where we have an active business and good knowledge-based assumptions. We should therefore concentrate and strengthen efforts in renewable energy such as sea wind and hydropower, energy efficiency, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and electrification rather than focus on thorium-based nuclear power.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e764	Cluet here for the use of thorium is the type of reactor. Salt melting reactors burn up to and including 100 pst. And it's just going to be 2 pst. of the waste as a radium activity, so I do not fully follow the conclusion of the Council of State. What I'm living afraid of is that we should go in the same trap as Germany. We are building power lines to the continent in order for our adjustable hydropower to provide important flexibility in periods where the need for regulatory power is high in the countries to which we are attached, in order to reduce the need for fossil power generation in countries with which we trade. As the council itself says in its response to the Bears of Moxnes in February, coal power and nuclear power produce evenly and bluntly, while solar and wind power are unregulatable, for windmills produce only 43 pst. of time, while solar power of course depends on sunlight. If the Council of State believes that we should contribute our hydropower to saving Germany from its own "Energiewende", the big investment in wind turbines that have destabilised the entire German energy supply, I am very curious about where we are going to take the power from, because we ourselves have a very big need for electricity in the future. Angela Merkel has decided to cut the nuclear power, but there are major discussions about the consequences of losing this base power. Windmills are going to solve much of the electricity demand, but there is no stable power source. Even with its 28 000 wind turbines, parts of Germany were for several days without electric production in 2019, while the second day was overproduction. It is estimated that Germany will lack 5.5 GW in 2021 when shutting down nuclear power plants, corresponding power to over 13 million people. And that's before you start reducing coal power. This year’s analyses also estimate that Germany’s phase-out of nuclear power in favour of coal will cost 1 100 new lives each year, as a result of air pollution. The German National Audit Office refers to ‘die Energiewende’ in this way: the change to renewable energy has cost Germany at least 160 billion. the euro in the last five years. The result is extremely disproportionate with the effort, only 27 pst. the electricity comes from renewable sources and the CO 2 emissions are on-site due to the simple reason that natural gas consumption has increased, while nuclear power is reduced. To reach 80 pst. The renewable share by 2050 is estimated to cost between 2000 and 3400 billion. the euro, depending on the scenario chosen. Two-four oil funds! The council says that wind is cheaper than nuclear power. Then I think that's the calculation I'd like to see, I want us not to go in the same trap as Germany, and I want to answer where we're going to take all the power from to hydrogen production and what we need to electrify.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e782	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Synnes, for having raised one – after all – very important question: How can we use Norwegian natural resources for the creation of wealth that also contributes to the management of climate change? But it must be a comprehensive effort to lift thorium as a new source of nuclear power. It will be very expensive and will also compete with other investments we have in Norway, such as: within hydrogen, sea wind or marine mineral extraction. Norway has, as is known, significant excess power from electricity generation in a normal year. Therefore, a Norwegian thorium investment makes economic sense only if there is sufficient willingness to pay in other countries for electricity from thorium. I feel that there is now little political demand for such a commitment in the Western world. On the contrary, the movements towards nuclear power are strong, and several countries will shut down their nuclear power plant, such as the United States. Sweden, Japan and Germany. Nor has the Norwegian energy industry embraced thorium as a technology and solution they want to work with in the future. Together with the Norwegian Research Council, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has carried out an assessment of various alternative measures to promote thorium, including the creation of its own research programme and a dedicated FME, the Environmental Energy Research Centre, for thorium. None of these measures were considered appropriate due to a low interest from the business community here in Norway. In addition, the Institute of Energy Technology, which is the key Norwegian research environment for nuclear research, has now shut down its research reactors in Halden and Kjeller. But if it turns out that there will be an international market for thorium, we may be able to invest in the extraction of thorium for sale at a later stage. In conclusion, Norway has limited resources to invest in new forms of energy. Although nuclear power based on thorium can prove reasonable in the long term, I think it is most appropriate for Norway to invest in those areas where we already have natural advantages and where we already have significant competences. Good examples of where this government has shown the will for such bet are, of course, our hydropower, sea wind, hydrogen and carbon capture and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e797	I am contacted daily by professionals who say that this is economically viable, and that we should bet on this. You're saying Japan is going to lay down. Japan is one of the foremost in developing new reactors. It happens incredibly much, as I said in my first post. You mentioned yourself that we're going to bet on hydrogen gas, and then I have some questions. Yes, hydrogen gas has been designated by many as a potentially important investment area for Norway, and isolatedly it is an interesting energy carrier, but few talk about the cost of producing hydrogen gas. Depending on wind power or hydropower as a source of energy in production is not reasonable. Hydropower can, of course, work, but using a renewable energy source as water for this purpose is both inefficient and expensive. We lose 75 pst. In addition, we need the hydropower for other purposes. Wind power is far too low and will at best be considered as hobby production in this context. Today we produce approx. 225000 tonnes of hydrogen gas, mainly grey, produced from natural gas. In order to generate green hydrogen gas by electrolysis, it is necessary to ca. 52 MWh electricity per tonne of hydrogen gas. So electrolysis will require 11 TWh of electricity. In a normal year, Norway produces approx. 5.5 TWh wind power and 134 TWh hydropower. So to make today's production of hydrogen green, we have to have twice as many windmills that are now dedicated to hydrogen production, or refer to 11 pst. of hydropower production, and then only to replace current production, not to export or use it for other things. There seems to be a majority on Stortinget to bet on a new industrial venture in hydrogen, and to bet on carbon capture at the same time. My question is, are you going to continue producing hydrogen from natural gas and capture CO 2 from this production to make it environmentally friendly? In that case, it will not be compatible with the phasing out of oil and gas extraction, because then we will need natural gas. On the other hand, if you think that this new industrial venture will be based on electricity, I would like to know where that power will come from. Then I say again: the Department of Energy in the United States estimates that a nuclear power plant with 1 GWh power will produce approx. 200000 tonnes of hydrogen gas per year as a by-product, or our entire production of hydrogen gas. The United States and France put great emphasis on that. It is difficult to see that Norway’s future hydrogen gas production can become competitive unless we invest in nuclear power at the same time — because that is exactly what is being done internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e813	The President would only remind the representative Synnes's emblematic wave that the speech should be directed through the President, so that the Council of State should not be addressed to you, but to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e818	I didn't notice that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e823	It's all right, but the president should charge it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e828	One gets a little engaged!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e833	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14, and the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e851	Is it right to have 79 pst. of the calving area of the reindeer in priority tillage areas of Northern Ireland? Is that wise? What does the Council of State Rotevatn want to answer those two questions? My clear answer is no. This is a disaster for anything but the food supply of the predatory game. In fact, the County's proposal for a new management plan was 79 pst. by the calving country to predatory areas. This was one of the reasons why in 2017, the North African wild game subject had to make changes to the proposal for a new management plan. It was also decided that the management plan with new alternatives for bear zones could not be taken into account without an impact assessment that highlighted nutrition and other societal interests, in the context of the stock objectives and consequences of other predatory game – yerv, gloupe and eagle. In addition, an assessment of the proposals had to be made in relation to the country's obligations under international law in relation to the Sami reindeer management. This has not been carried out, so the evidence base is still too poor for anything other than just predatory. The research project ‘Beitresources, predators and communities’ was carried out between March 2017 and February 2020 by Ruralis, NIBIO, Nordlandsforskning, NTNU and Umeå University. An important finding is how experience-based knowledge is invalidated. I'll quote a short excerpt from the report: ‘The northern part of the island has, through the revision process of the management plan, challenged the principle of zoning by not readily accepting the Authority’s proposal for zones. Instead, they have emphasised local experience and knowledge when making zone decisions in the Nordic region. During several rounds in Northern Ireland, predatory wildlife has been strongly asked to reconsider its decision in this area, and now national authorities have taken up the plan to decide for themselves what the zone in Northern Ireland should look like. A central finding in this process is that the experience-based knowledge of reindeer management is held, reduced and invalidated at national level in the game management.’;» Norway is responsible for the sustainable management of large predators. The Berne Convention and the Convention on Biological Diversity are signed. The Nature Diversity Act obliges the conservation of predatory game. At the same time, both the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act state that it shall be possible to remove predatory game in order to avoid killing domestic animals and domestic animals. Norway has also signed ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples and tribal peoples of independent states. This is particularly relevant for Sami reindeer management. Furthermore, Norway has committed itself both to the European Landscape Convention, which deals with local involvement in policies and decisions in its own landscape, and to the European Convention for the Protection of Animals held for Farming purposes. Both in Norway and in Europe, there is a strong increase in the number of predators, and this presents major challenges. The 2004 and 2011 predatory game comparisons have a two-fold objective of ensuring sustainable predatory populations while maintaining active and viable grazing industries. Nevertheless, the level of conflict is high. One of the reasons for that is the perception in this government that predatory game is the main goal of the two-part goal. This increases the pressure on remaining farmers and land users because grazing becomes an automatic secondary measure. Only 3 pst. of our country is cultivated land, in the North only 1.4 pst. Therefore, the outback has always been important and in conflict with you, gaupe, bear, wolf and king eagle. The Gaupe, Yew, Bear and Wolves management areas represent about 55 pst. of the land area of Norway, comprising 53 pst. of active farmers, and 50 pst. of the area used by Sami reindeer farms on a land basis. Early lowering and fencing of sheep have positive effects on loss rates, but the decline in loss rates is mainly due to the closure of land-based grazing in the predatory areas. A significant proportion of the loss of grazing animals due to predatory game is now occurring within pasture priority areas adjacent to the management areas of predatory game. The majority of predatory sheep and reindeer are found 30 to 50 km outside predatory zones, where animals are still allowed to graze freely. In Northern Ireland, sewage treatment has a very high loss to predators, and the sum of the different predatory species has a strong impact on the handling rooms of reindeer. Cleansing experience that losses and damage to eagles are growing rapidly, and increased knowledge of the significance of eagles is important. The cultural importance of reindeer management is important, but the situation now feels very difficult. For example, Mats Pavall, one of the young reindeer owners in Duokta, says to the NRK that he can't continue with the reindeer. Ending Mats, hope for the reindeer in Duokta disappears. So what's the predatory game going to eat? Of course, there are several challenges in the reindeer pastures, but Mats Pavall is clear that it is the predatory game that is the greatest strain they have. Eagles, yerves and yerpes kill both the pure and the hope of a future in an important and traditional nourishment. And it's not just a single-trainer that alerts. Both the County of Nordland and the Norwegian Samers Riksförbund, NSR, warn of the death of the reindeer in the county if not the robberies pressure is eased. All of this has to be balanced in a management plan for wild game. We can't have a management plan for predatory game that adds 79 pst. of the calving area of the reindeer within the predatory game zones. Sheep boars that still have sheep on pasture grounds in pasture priority areas have implemented a number of remedial measures, but this cannot prevent predatory attacks. Most are involved in organised grazing with grazing and cooperation on supervision and guessing. Inland pastures, which are often drawn up as an alternative, do not work well for most people. It results in reduced growth, lower wool and disease problems. There is a marked increase in drug use and vaccination due to increased levels of invulnerable parasites. Feed production has been reduced, as much of the area is used for grazing, with the need for more purchased feed. Increased expenditure and increased labour input, poorer economy and less or no leisure time, and less time for other farm work is the result. So when a management plan is to be adopted, we can not only focus on predatory factors, we must also look at the living conditions of grazing users and their interests. Then you can get a real, balanced, two-part goal. I want to give some examples from Voengelh-Njärke reinbeite district. The statistics then show that the sims have between 93 and 98 pst. pregnancy, but the calf percentage is between 26 and 34 pst. after loss. Statistics show that between 93 and 98 pst. for the reasons for loss are predatory. These figures are taken from the Resource statement for the reindeer industry for the years 2002–2019. On average, calf losses increase by 12 calves a year, a total of 23 pure per year, and the slaughter harvest is reduced by 14 pure per year. The losses increase, and the reindeer get replaced less than half of the real loss. The activity of y'all and y'all matches the loss of reindeer. In addition, losses to bears and eagles are not included in the statistics. All of this means that if the North does not take action to balance the two-part objective, the management plan will be a purely strategy paper on how to eliminate grazing industries in Northern Ireland. The cleaning industry does not have many years left as it is today, and we have lost too many sheep farmers who buy themselves out, who give up, and who cannot continue after a generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e886	The size of the game has decided that we should have a two-part objective in the game management. We're going to have predatory game in Norway, while we're going to have an active grazing diet in the field, with livestock like sheep, cattle and domestic animals. It is therefore necessary for the administration to have a good knowledge of both predators and their behaviour, prediction and land use, and of the different grazing industries. Very good scientific research has been carried out in Scandinavia, both on the predatory game and on the impact of the predatory game on both people and fairies. As a result of their daily activities and research, the management of wild game has gained a good insight into animal nutrition and domestic food, both on how the activities are run and on what effects predators can have on nutrition. It's e.g. large-scale research projects in which relevant research institutions have looked at the causes of the loss of animals on pasture and the role of the predatory game in these industries and the loss. In short, we have little knowledge of environmental management than just predators and how they behave, and how it affects our important grazing industries. At the same time, experience-based knowledge is a very important part of predatory game management. The type of knowledge is usually the starting point for both scientific research, damage documentation and the recording of wild game populations. For example, there are experiences in the reindeer that are the starting point for us to want a research project on the king eagle and oat eagle in Troms. It is also the case that the experience of reindeer operations, with the input of a find of cadavers, and that of predatory wildlife observations, is central to the work of the State's natural care department with both damage documentation and stock records. In this way, experience-based knowledge is also used in administration, and the experience and input from grazing industries is an important part of the knowledge base. Robbery management is organised in such a way that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is responsible for launching the adopted Robbery Policy of the Stortinge. Furthermore, we have eight predatory areas, each with predatory wildlife names. These topics have a central role to play in the development of regional predatory policies, including: by drawing up a management plan for wild game in its region. A central element of the predatory game management is geographical differentiation. that one is able to separate predators and grazing animals in the best possible way in space and time. If we are to achieve the stock targets for the four large predators in predatory game-prioritised areas, both nationally and regionally, while at the same time providing a reliable framework for grazing and the lowest possible losses, it is absolutely essential that management plans provide for good geographical differentiation. If not, it will be very difficult to achieve the two-part objective. This is challenging because one should meet the ecological and biological needs of the predators, while at the same time facilitating a good habitat for domestic food and a good grazing area for livestock. The representative Mossleth asks me if I will help to ensure that management plans are not overestimated. To that I will reply that I will contribute to the compliance of the management plans with the adopted National Robbery Policy of the Storting. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has for many years stressed that there are the very names that should change plans that are not consistent with national policies. It's a very important starting point. If, in such a case, government predators do not change their plans, I believe it is right and necessary that the Ministry of Climate and Environment should include a management plan with a view to implementing the necessary changes in order to maintain the agreed policies of the Storting. So the representative Mossleth claims that knowledge that is weighted by the predatory game subject does not get the same impact right up the system, and that this relates to the particular knowledge attached to the domestic industry. I want to make the Stortinget aware that we are using sound professional skills from the statesmen, and that we are in good contact with the domestic industry and the Sameting, both through the dialogue meeting, through consultations and through the follow-up to the reindeer management agreement. In connection with the management of the management plan for the predatory game region 7, i.e. Nordland, in the department, it is among other things. a meeting with the domestic industry in the county, and we are now going to carry out consultations on the plan with both Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund. However, as in other plans, priorities must be set, and in such a plan, different interests will be opposed to each other. It will probably not be possible to get all interests at all. There is an inherent tension in the two-part goal set, which is attached by the Storting, and it is reflected in such processes. This means that we are content to find good compromises that, as far as advice is concerned, take care of the different interests. It is not the same as saying that knowledge is being invalidated, but it is getting a plan in accordance with the agreed policy of the Storting. Finally, I would like to stress that there is an existing management plan in Northern Ireland. That the representative Mossleth claims that the review does not test the plan locally is, therefore, a claim that does not make any sense. The plan has been tested locally for many years, and experience is that it does not provide a reliable framework for the conservation of neither the predatory wildlife populations nor the grazing industries in the region. And it seems that – if I finally add – the representative Mossleth actually agrees, as she used so much of her post to come up with a rather sharp criticism of the plan that has been agreed locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e917	The management plan for predatory game in Northern Ireland has not been properly tested. These aren't my words. That is what the report has done by Ruralis, where Nordic research has been part of the research project ‘Beitresources, predators and communities’. It was their word that was used, and it can be read in the report. What the Council of State, Rotevatn, says, underpins much of what I'm trying to explain. The minister says that the predatory knowledge is very good, and that's right, I totally agree with that. But that's what's the problem -- that predatory know-how is very high, while the other knowledge base is not stressed. We weigh, for example, bear-disciplinary assessments when laying down the bear zones, but what the predatory game subject asked for, is not taken into account, i.e. an impact assessment that highlights nutrition and other societal interests in relation to the stock objectives, and the consequences of other predatory game, such as youives, gloats and eagles. An assessment of the proposals has not been submitted in view of the State's obligations under international law in respect of the Sami reindeer management. There should have been an impact assessment of any kind of economic activity, other social interests, housing and quality of life, hunting interests, the relationship with local communities, reduced losses of domestic animals and a reduction in the basis of conflict between humans and predators. That knowledge does not exist in the same way as predatory knowledge. The Scandinavian bear project points to two other areas in the Nordic region, the inner Salt and the inner South-Helgeland. Both places are very important pastures for both pure and sheep, and it's very conflicty. It is likely to take a very long time to achieve the stocking target for bears in Northern Ireland, but the handicaps to grazing will arise rapidly and increase as population increases. We are an edge of the Swedish bear population, and I think the conclusion is that the stock target for bear in Northern Ireland is being removed. In the end, there's actually a lot of burden-sharing in Northern Ireland. Ten globular mounds and ten globular mounds are divided into 1,500 pure-bred winter pastures. That's too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e928	I want to remind you of what I actually said in my post. I didn't say we only have good knowledge of the rough game. For many years we have also gained a very good knowledge of how the predatory game affects both the domestic and other grazing industries. Knowledge is partly experience-based and based on good dialogue with the industries, and it is based on scientific research. I don't think there's any place in the world one has so deep knowledge about predatory game and how it affects people and fairy, like what we have here in Scandinavia in general and in Norway in particular. This is what we use in large resources – both in scientific research, dialogue and the acquisition of knowledge from outside practitioners – just to keep track of experience-based knowledge. Of course, I'm always for more knowledge. That's why we're about to gain more knowledge on some of the areas that Mossleth's representative points to, where we need even more knowledge. For example, the situation of oats and royal eagles and their effects on domestic reeds applies. We're just starting a research project with that objective in mind. I believe that the Central Party and the representative Mossleth are happy that we do. Otherwise, in that context, I would say, with a little reference to the representative Mossleth's first post, that the population of the king eagle in Norway is very stable. The stock is located approximately in the middle of the range that the Stortinget has agreed as a stock measure for the king eagle. Then, of course, you can disagree with the goal. Actually, I didn't realize that the center party is. At least they stood as part of the predatory game agreement, where the stock target was fixed. Otherwise, there's a message to leave the robberies deal. I hope the Center Party doesn't mean that. But I'm recording that the representative Mossleth, as it appears, is deeply different from the regional plan. It is very critical of both the stock target in the Nordic countries and the selected regions. It's hard to interpret what she says in another way. It's okay. But then I thought it's a little strange that one is also so critical that we just brought in a plan to revise it. One can't kind of mean both of them at the same time. Elles is very concerned with the Central Party and the representative Mossleth that we are going to take political responsibility for the robbery policy. That was one of the reasons why Stortinget voted against the government's proposal to have an independent rapist. It seemed to me that I was a bad decision, but I take notice of her. At that time, the argument was that we must take political responsibility, take political direction. That's exactly what we're doing. We take political responsibility and governance to follow up on the adopted poaching policy of the Storting, both in region 7 and in the rest of the country. I believe that the representative actually agrees that one should do so. At least it's hard to interpret her in any other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e941	The Minister's posts constantly underpin the fact that the predatory game is allowed to be the main objective of the two-part objective. If you want to be a little concrete about what the overall authority is dissatisfied with in the management plan that applies, there is no new bear zone inserted. The old bear son is kept until further notice, and the chief authority believes that the son of today is too bad for the bear profession. However, the proposed zones are highly unsuitable for grazing. It is one of the elements on which there is a conflict in the current management plan, and more knowledge has not been properly acquired. Another of the anchor points is that there's too little space set aside for you guys' wings. As far as you guys are concerned, we've been across the North for many years, and we've actually thought it was enough to have that area given how difficult it is to take out yours outside the Juvenile Area and the Yervesona. We also want to be able to take out some of yours inside of yervesona, because we have a lot of yerves in the area, so it's a big nuisance for the reindeer and for the sheep industry. The rain is also very disturbed by the yerven. It's not a very good hunter, but it's disturbing, as well as what it takes. So this management plan contains a burden-sharing on gaupe, and I have not heard that the overall authority has said anything negative about, or doubted. That's actually what's more different than the zoning guidelines. The reason why we've done this is because the work force wanted to try it out, because the gaupe areas are very similar to the large grazing areas and the calving country. We wanted to distribute the burden, but with the limitation that it had to be allowed to gloat before the stock targets were achieved, in order to have a burden-sharing. It has not been followed, we have not been taken out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e952	The representative says she interprets my posts as the main goal of the government's policy. I can't see that that's the basis for doing that, on the contrary, we take into account the two-part objective, which says that we should both have viable predatory wildlife populations in Norway, as the Stortinget with overwhelming plurality has asked us to take care of, and with that agreement to the Berne Convention, the adoption of natural disasters, the conclusion of the predatory game settlement, etc. It includes the party of the representative Mossleth. At the same time, we must take care to have viable grazing. I'm not going to say that this is always easy to find, there are completely embedded conflicts that you'll never get a hundred percent away from. But one must be able to minimize him, get the conflict so small a clearer and pursue a balanced policy. I mean, the government does. It's really easy just to point out, for example. the representative Mossleth has mentioned several times, namely the situation of the bear population. The size here determined a stock measure for bear, we're way below that stock measure today, and it'll take a long time to come up. Still, we give birthrights on the bear. We've done that several times this summer, the reason why we've been doing just biting. If predatory game was the only thing we cared about in the administration, one of course would never have given a killing license, because we haven't come up to the stock goal Stortinget has agreed. But we do it anyway, because these are demanding assessments where a lot of time has to look at the concrete situation. And it's often we choose to grant permission to trap predators, just because there's a threat to grazing, that pressure is too big, even if one based on an isolated predatory assessment would make sure one didn't. What I rarely hear, on the other hand, is that representatives from the Center Party say the same thing – that sometimes an acceptable loss is necessary to arrive at the goal of the Stortinget. I've never heard representatives from the Center Party say that. According to that, I can actually just interpret it so that the government takes care of the two-part goal, while it's hard to see that some others are equally involved in that. It actually seemed to me to be very important to do that. Elles has the representative Mossleth many good recordings, I thought – or good and good, at least many recordings – of how the management plan in region 7 should be in terms of both stock targets, zone, and so on. I take note of that, of course. However, I also believe that it underlines precisely what the representative is seemingly opposed to, namely that that management plan must be amended and revised. That's why we brought him in, that's why we're now in close dialogue with the domestic industry in the Nordic countries, with the Sametinget, which we're going to consult, and with the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund, hopefully we can find a good balance and a management plan that works when the long democratic process of taking into account the determined objectives of the Stortinget is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e965	The debate on substance is closed. 15 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e983	Globally, the construction industry is the individual sector that consumes the most materials. In Norway, it is the largest producer of waste and accounts for nearly 25 pst. Construction emissions in Norway amounted to 13,1 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in 2017. That's about. 26 pst. of the total emission. Despite these high figures, the construction sector is rarely mentioned. In the government's work on Climate Change 2030, construction is hardly mentioned. I appreciate the fact that the municipal minister is here, but the interpellation was actually addressed to the climate minister, and I wonder why he does not believe to be the right minister for the topic of housing and climate impact. It was invested 466 billion. kr in the construction industry last year. Since the construction industry accounts for such a large proportion of Norwegian and global emissions and energy and resource use, the measures taken in this industry will have a very significant impact on the climate. New climate-friendly solutions could also provide new export opportunities. State and local authority must use their purchasing power to a far greater extent to impose high environmental requirements, challenge the construction industry and develop new smart rehabilitation or new construction solutions. State buildings are a good example of the use of ambitious requirements. Oslo Municipality has set itself a goal on fossil-free construction sites, and the next step is zero-emission engine park. In Bergen, according to a climate accounting, the municipality has chosen to rehabilitate the town hall rather than to demolish it. Media City in Bergen is an example of how it is possible to maintain constructions and build a new building of the skeleton of the old. This saves significantly CO 2 equivalents — while the county council chooses to demolish its old building, and there can never be a climate perspective at home. Country and municipality are the largest tenants of commercial property, but the environment is rarely concentrated in the choice of landlord. The public must also use its market power here and set environmental classification requirements for the rental of commercial property. In many construction projects, there is still a one-sided focus on investment costs and low climate pressure and innovation. Suppliers should be required to make life-cycle costs and climate emissions for the construction of buildings visible. Better tools have been called for as a basis for decision-making on the choice of more sustainable solutions. Requirements must be imposed for the use of non-polluting materials, clearer requirements for energy efficiency improvement and incentives for more recycling or reuse of other building materials. The industry has developed a new methodology for the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions throughout the life cycle of the building. New tools are used to define the value in use of existing construction materials. New methods and tools provide knowledge-based information for the entire life cycle – from material selection, sustainable design, transport, facilities, operation, maintenance and possible demolition or recycling of barley. Developing such international standards will also provide equivalent environmental declarations for construction products and services worldwide. But today's building regulations give little insight into innovation. Framework conditions are needed to encourage innovation beyond minimum requirements. It is a challenge that many tools are based on points to reach the different standards, while new solutions and innovation do not score points. The same mechanisms are connected to several TEK requirements. An alternative could be to set insulation value requirements instead of the number of centimeters of insulation. It would stimulate the development of better insulation and the use of new materials. Requirements for greenhouse gas pressures and not for kilowatt-hours per square metre would provide innovation in the construction industry, and not just in the development of bulbs. Experience with the point requirements, which Norway has been so concerned about, forces the industry into a track without innovation, but only to reach out to meet some requirements, which often means satisfying the minimum requirement. According to the SSB, the productivity of construction has fallen by 10 pst. since 2000, while private sector productivity in mainland Norway has increased by 30 pst. during the same period. Other Nordic countries, with the exception of Denmark, also have a decline in productivity. Little investment is made in research and development. We should have the ambition to increase productivity and reduce emissions in the construction industry. The construction sector has significant greenhouse gas emissions for the production of materials and technical installations. Therefore, the purchasing requirements of the construction sector will have a significant impact on the greenhouse gas emissions of the material industry. Recent figures show that emissions from Norwegian building materials are on their way down, much thanks to the recent increase in demand for lower emissions products. According to Baug21, about 10 pst. the lifetime of the emissions in a building site itself through the use of fossil-powered equipment and building heat. Experience from fossil-free construction sites in the Municipality of Oslo is that it is not costly. Biodiesel costs more per litre, but less fuel is required, so that the price per hour of operation is evened out. Products with low greenhouse gas emissions are not significantly more expensive than traditional materials. The experience of the Gardermoen extension was that concrete with much lower greenhouse gas emissions cost 60 kr extra per cubic metre. The concrete industry is also working on zero-emission solutions, so the CCS bet with Norcem is important in this context. Solid wood is a material with low greenhouse gas emissions and binds carbon. It turns out that building time is reduced by massive trees and requires less foundation. Costs may be further reduced by industrialisation. Energy efficiency improvement is often mentioned. There are clear objectives adopted, but really little is happening in that field as well. It's mostly about smaller amounts of heat pumps and solar cells. According to the SSB, the Norwegian building mass stands for 42 pst. by energy use in Norway when calculating the activity in the buildings. The technology for smart use of energy has been developed, but needs to be much more user-friendly to enable households to make use of the new governance opportunities. The regulatory framework should also stimulate the use of roofs, walls and other parts of the building for alternative renewable energy production, such as solar cells and heat pumps, but also the use of waste heat from industry and biogas from waste. Administrations may accelerate desired developments by giving incentives to those at the forefront. Support schemes must go more to those who contribute to the construction itself and thus affect the life accounts of the building itself. It will produce much greater power than just support for heat pump or solar cells. Some 20,000 buildings are demolished annually in Norway. 43 pst. from the materials from which they are recovered. The EU requirement, which also has to be addressed by Norway, is that a total of 70 pst. materials shall be reused, or recovered, from 2020 onwards, i.e. from this year onwards. Norway is the country that builds the most new per capita. New buildings are often the least sustainable. It's beginning to be scarce on a number of raw materials worldwide. The construction sector uses about 40 pst. of the material resources of society. Today, the Western world uses material resources equivalent to one and a half Earths. We have to think closed circuits by reusing all material resources in the future. Quality needs to be sought to withstand stress from both normal use and expected climate changes. The average lifetime for Norwegian barley is 80 years. Today we demolish a lot of buildings that are between 40 and 50 years old. We need to improve the re-use of existing building stock. The major greenhouse gas emissions from the construction sector are related to ground and foundation materials and account for about 40 pst. Rehabilitation projects must be required. Unnecessary demolition of barley contributes to resource depletion. Many settlements are built in the 1950s and 1960s and need rehabilitation. Leaders are often measured as to whether they keep costs down, and investment that provides more sustainable construction is challenging. There is a need to develop sustainable maintenance plans adapted to housing laws and support schemes for rehabilitating housing for better energy solutions. According to the SSB, some 1.8 million tonnes of construction waste are generated annually. Authorities impose requirements for waste sorting, but not for the maximum amount of construction waste. Today we lack a good system for reuse of building materials. Normally, much of the tearing mass goes to combustion and filling masses. The recycling requirements are currently 60 pst. of the weight. It is easy to achieve because concrete is very heavy. The regulations should be more nuanced in order to stimulate more recycling and reuse of construction materials and components other than concrete. People are busy living in energy- and environmental-friendly dwellings. Therefore, building environmental standards must be easily accessible to all decision-makers, including consumers in the rental, purchase and rehabilitation of owner-occupied dwellings, so that they can easily make knowledge-based, wise choices. In order to succeed in the transition, legislation and support schemes must be predictable, instruments must have a clear purpose, and the construction sector must have framework conditions that invite more innovation. What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that the construction industry has a forward-looking framework that will reduce climate pressure, increase productivity and, above all, give greater room for innovation in one of our major industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1044	The construction industry is one of the largest industries in the country, both in the number of employees and in value creation. The industry is scattered throughout the country, covering almost 60 000 enterprises with more than 250000 employees. In addition, architects, consultants and companies in the construction industry come. The construction industry is important for local jobs, but also important for people's lives – because the construction industry is responsible for the buildings in which we all live, live and work. However, the construction sector also contributes to a large climate impact and is one of the industries with the highest potential to cut emissions. It is necessary to achieve the sustainability goals and to realise a low-carbon society where we make better use of our resources. The representative, Mr Grung, therefore addresses important issues in his interpellation: How can we reduce the climate impact and contribute to increased productivity and innovation in the construction industry? The government’s strategy to take Norway out of the corona crisis is to create more and include more. We will do that through six main actions: get people back to work, secure more legs to stand on, build skills, include more, maintain security and trust in society – and create a green future. We need to facilitate the creation of green jobs and a more sustainable future for business. This applies not least to the construction industry, which is often referred to as the 40 % sector because the sector accounts for around 40 pst worldwide. of total energy use, and because about 40 pst. of all materials are destined for construction. Fortunately, Norway is a different country. We have much lower greenhouse gas emissions related to barley, actually below 2 pst. of our total emissions. The reason for this is, among other things, that we have set ever more stringent energy requirements for construction. In 2016, we strengthened the requirements for passive house level and introduced a ban on the installation of fossil heating. We thus have no CO 2 emissions from the operation of new buildings. As of this year, fossil oil is also prohibited for heating existing buildings. In addition, the industry itself has developed new and more energy-efficient solutions that go beyond the requirements. Certification schemes such as BREEAM and energy labelling of construction make it easier for the market to choose these solutions. Although we have very low greenhouse gas emissions related to the operation of construction, the government believes that we have an improvement potential in the construction process, material use and waste management. It is possible to reduce waste volumes and to invest more in reuse and material recovery, and in the Granavolden platform we have an ambitious goal of fossil-free construction sites by 2025. Administrations shall provide a good framework for green development in the construction industry. But we also have to give the construction industry room to innovate. For example, we don't want to make demands on the use of one or another building material, but on the quality of construction we need to achieve the climate goals. The industry must then develop and deliver good and green solutions within the framework set. The government will facilitate a green development in the construction industry through several grapples. Firstly, we are working on further developing the energy requirements. In this context, we look at issues related to energy, climate and environment in the context. Secondly, we will contribute to more reuse of building materials. That is why we are now working with the industry to establish machine-readable standards for construction materials, so that product information does not disappear just because the materials have been used, but so that the materials can live on even if the construction does not. We are also looking at whether more reuse of used construction materials is possible under today's legislation, which I know the industry itself is concerned about. Third, we're going to keep using Enova as an engine in the green shift. Enova helps drive new technologies forward through support for innovative climate and energy solutions. Enova supports solutions that can reduce emissions from the production of construction materials and from the construction phase. This is an important contribution to the circular economy in Norway. Fourth, we want to use public acquisitions as an instrument. The public shall advance by requiring zero and low-emission technologies. In the construction sector, public expenditure accounts for a large proportion of demand. Constructions and constructions account for approx. 27 pst. of the total climate footprint of public procurement and construction is a priority area for climate-friendly acquisitions. The aim is to increase the use of zero and low-emission solutions in construction sites, to increase the use of environmentally friendly building materials and to increase the recovery of materials and waste from construction and demolition, by requiring it. This was also put on the agenda of the General Public Procurement Communication, Announcement. St. 22 for 2018-2019, Smarter procurement – efficient and professional public procurement, which the government is now working to follow up through an action plan for climate- and environmentally friendly public acquisitions and green innovation. State buildings have a special responsibility for being a driver and a role model for a greener construction industry. State-building is a market driver that can contribute to the low-carbon society, for example: when aiming for the use of materials that generate low greenhouse gas emissions or for projects to seek emission-free solutions and technologies at the construction site. In 2019, State Building was first in the world to use an electric excavator in a construction project on the construction site of the life sciences building in Oslo. By going ahead in this way, State Building is agreeing to establish a market in which the rest of the industry can participate. Fifthly, the government is now working on a climate plan to be presented to the Stortinge during the year. The government's objective is as is known to cut emissions by 50-55 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990. The construction industry will be an important part of this job. We're also working on a national circular economy strategy. The pressure on natural resources is increasing, and we therefore need to use and reuse resources more effectively. The government believes that Norway needs a productive construction industry if it is to contribute to the green shift. Unfortunately, we know that productivity growth in construction has been lower than in society in the last decades. In 2013, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation established Building21 – as a cooperation programme between the construction industry and state authorities. The aim was to reduce costs, increase productivity and strengthen the environmental and sustainability perspective in the housing and building sectors. Construction21 was able to obtain best practice in a number of areas and showed that this could reduce construction costs by a total of 20 pst. At the same time, Building21 was clear that the industry itself has to take responsibility for improving quality, reducing costs and facilitating innovation. The knowledge and ideas developed by Bygg21 are therefore further managed by the industry itself, including: through the Green Building Alliance and the Consulting Engineers Association. To make the construction industry greener and more productive, the government believes that digitisation and new technologies are an important tool. Both the state, the municipalities and the construction industry must work together to use digital tools for the benefit of society and for each of us. Fortunately, a lot of exciting is already happening on the initiative of the industry itself. At the same time, government authorities must also contribute, inter alia, to: å simplify and facilitate the regulatory framework for a digital future; digitise services for the planning and construction process; making public data available for digital use; go ahead and show way using digital technologies facilitating cooperation and innovation; We have already come a long way in many areas: The development of common components and agreed standards is well under way. In recent years, the Directorate for Building Quality has worked significantly to make the construction process digital. The Common Services BYGG platform is established on the Altinn. It ensures that all digital building applications are automatically checked against the legislation before they are forwarded to the municipality to process them. The result is that municipalities receive complete applications for the first time, and that the procedure is faster. Through cooperation with the KS and the supplier market, solutions for electronic construction handling are now available to municipalities. The supplier market has also developed new solutions for the digital submission of building applications and digital neighbouring alerts. Digitisation of planning processes is also under way. Building information modeling, BIM, is also at full speed into the industry. This is a tool that will improve the efficiency and quality of both planning, design and implementation. BIM models, linked to machine-readable product information, can also provide a way to account for the climate of the construction industry. The construction sector, like the rest of society, has been put to a hard test under the pandemic. Among other things, the demand for new dwellings was almost overnight. The government has met with a number of measures to maintain activity while investing in the future and green solutions. It's given about 4 billion. kr for construction and maintenance measures. 2.5 B.C.E. kr is earmarked for maintenance in municipalities, rehabilitation and upgrading of construction. A total green conversion package of 3.6 billion has been adopted. kr over three years. The main bet in the green conversion package is 2 billion. kr in increased allocation to Enova in 2020, which will strengthen the investment in technology development in industry, including the construction sector. The size has also granted 20 million. to digitise planning processes and stimulate digital building information models of existing buildings. This will accelerate and strengthen innovation efforts and contribute to further digitisation of planning and building processes. Projects may, in the short term, help prevent job losses. In the longer term, it will contribute to efficient processes in the industry and to interaction between industries and administrations. Luckily, we see that the new home sale and the housing construction have taken place again. At the end of August, according to the SSB, the start-up permits were granted to nearly 19 000 dwellings. So it's a construction activity that's not that far away from what we've had in recent years. The Association of Housing Producers states that the start-up of dwellings in September this year is actually a little higher than the same month last year. We have ambitious climate targets, and we are about to convert to a low-carbon society in a short time. The State shall require and ensure that industry has framework conditions that allow for more innovation. We will facilitate the development of the industry, increase its productivity and deliver green buildings for the future. Let me conclude by saying that when I respond to this interview, it is like the Minister of Housing and Construction. And I think it's an advantage that working with green solutions in different industries is in the departmental departments responsible for the different sectors. It also reflects in the areas of the other Councils, and I think that overall it will produce a better result for a greener future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1137	Thank you to the Minister for Municipal Affairs, or the Minister for Construction. I fully agree that it is important for everyone to lift this up, but it would have been a good thing if the climate minister were also concerned about construction. I have three challenges: one is that I feel that there are very much engineers – I have nothing against engineers – who have shaped the framework, with regulations like TEK, etc. How are you going to be able to make room for the creative? I have understood that the work that has been done up to now, which was also being carried out by the Minister, has gone a long way towards improving the efficiency of the procedure and a short cut in time. But in terms of the creative element, I've had two recordings lately. The first is the use of dried seaweed for insulation, e.g. It's completely impossible with today's system. The other applies to the use of ships and oil installations which are capped. Can you reuse all the steel that's in them? But this needs a much bigger framework for creativity. That was issue No. 1st@item: inlistbox The second is that this morning I listened to a webinar that the Climate Change Foundation held. There were the Swedes there, and they have a program – it was said that it was made of funds for rehabilitation – that, as I understood it, is directly directed towards housing law. It's challenging for a supervisor to get accepted in plenary to invest in energy solutions if they don't get good tools, but here it's a great potential. One third of us live in housing law, and frameworks should be set up to facilitate investment in good energy solutions and in rehabilitation measures. The third is about government acquisitions. I sat in the nutrition committee when we discussed the matter, but it takes so much time before we see results from it. The government is the state, which could have been more efficient, but it's also all the municipalities out there. Does the Council have any proposals for this area that are so important and that can contribute to a lot of employment as well? It was also an important aspect of Sweden, where unemployment is much higher than that of us, but we have the same challenges in ensuring that we get activity. How can you connect these things – both think new and creatively and get more jobs, and also get better on climate and energy and get a better living environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1148	Thank you for the follow-up question from the representative Grung. I am – like the representative – concerned that we need to facilitate innovation in the construction industry. As we further develop TEK, it is important, as I was in my post, that we do not make regulations that stand in the way of innovation, and to a greater extent in the future points to objective requirements rather than pointing to winning materials. I think that's important. It may also open the way for seaweed to become a new insulation material — at least it should not be excluded in the future. I think we need this kind of innovation. I also think that digitisation can be very important for the industry's ability to think new and outside the box. That we get 3D models of construction and can visualize construction in a completely different way in advance of the construction being traveled, I also think that I can open up new opportunities to think innovatively and project the constructions in a slightly different way, but take care of the qualities that we are dedicated to caring for. It is more important than which individual materials are chosen at any time. State buildings, not too long ago, had a competition in which they had an open mind when it came to solving a need. They then got a completely new type of material, which they used in that project. I think that's a little bit of a solution. I made a big announcement about innovation in the public sector before the summer, which the Storting is dealing with now, and I point out that some of the most important things to achieve more innovation in public acquisitions are not really about instruments, but are about having culture for innovation in individual businesses and having a management that supports employees who think outside the box and who challenge the established way of solving things, and that they have the competence to carry out innovative public acquisitions in individual businesses. There is a lot to go on here, but I believe in culture in particular, that we need to be much better in the public sector to describe the need we have, rather than going straight to the solution of the problem. But it is not done overnight, and it cannot be adopted in the Stortinget. There's something that needs to be worked on every single day in all the different public businesses we have. To be completely honest, this is not a problem that is isolated to the public sector. This applies equally to large private enterprises. They also need to renew themselves. I also think that cooperating with e.g. start-up enterprises in acquisition processes can be one way for both private and public enterprises to renew themselves and to learn to think outside the box in this context. The housing law was specifically mentioned. There are now also solutions for housing law laws, through Enova and other parts of the instrument. I am concerned that we as authorities need to facilitate good and environmentally friendly choices for the future in all parts of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1163	Thank you for an important interpellation. The Council of State now said at the end of its speech that innovation was important, and that the public sector is of course a very large buyer also on construction. But what's with innovation is that it often costs a little bit more in the beginning for the one who's going to take the lead in innovation. Then we must also ensure that the public sector and the municipal sector, which are large, can afford to make these innovations. Maybe we'll have to look at Enova's legislation, so that they, for example. can contribute more support to price differences in order to obtain products with a much lower climate footprint and are preferably recyclable and renewable. I'm going to take a little bit of hold of that state council also said that we can't stand here and pick material. But we have to make some demands on the materials we're going to use. They must be recyclable and they must be renewable. Then I don't think we're going to get away from three in the construction sector. Annual returns represent 2 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent, most of which are burned up. There are now projects — technologies are available to clean wood waste into industrial chips, for example: That's what you're trying to do in Forestia in Våler. I think the Council of State knows – at least the government knows – about that project, where you can put wood chips back into the chipboards, and they get a long and extended life span. We get rid of wood waste that would otherwise be burned up, and we get jobs and industrial development in the Inland, but also throughout the country. I was very disappointed when I saw the state budget come, and for this ready-to-use project, there are no support schemes that will allow such projects, which are at the heart of what we are discussing now, because we are going to build renewables, and of course we are going to be able to reuse that material. So there are large quantities – it is the largest resource in the waste industry that does not go to material recovery. It's burning up today, and it's a very poor use of resources. We have to now get this going. One is that we need to ensure that the public sector can actually afford to buy these innovative solutions and these more environmentally friendly solutions and zero-emission solutions and invest in circular construction that can be recovered. I also heard that the Council of State was involved in machine-readable product information in its article. It is something that the construction industry has been very concerned about to us who sit on the municipal committee at least, that must be in place if we are to get more recycling of the building material that we already use today. Then you have to have that overview, so you know what you can reuse directly. It's very important that you do that, and that what you can reuse, for example. into new construction products, such as particle board, are used for it and that it is only that which cannot be used for other purposes, which may be used for heat production and combustion. We have received many proposals from the wood industry and the drawbar. They have very specific suggestions on how to put in place the circular economy that the Council of State is talking about, but which we are unfortunately a little bit far away from getting in place. I'm going to fine-read the post of the Council of State later, because this we have to get to. This will also provide many new jobs that we need in the future. Here, Norway has the opportunity to be in the forefront, including in research and development in this area, but money must not be greedy of initially developing these products, as the government tends to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1181	The construction industry is central to the design of tomorrow’s low-carbon society. In Norway, the construction industry is the individual sector with the highest consumption of materials, and Norway is the country that builds the most new per capita. New buildings are often the least sustainable. Nevertheless, the construction industry is not mentioned in the government's work on climate change cures, and while the industry itself wants to contribute to reducing climate change emissions, the government is following. Yes, the former municipal minister rejected the construction industry's proposal when they raised their voice before Christmas last year. Monica Meland said right away that this got the industry fixed itself, and they didn't need whips or carrots. We all have opportunities to bring down emissions in this industry, and we have to arrest them. We need to discuss the use of climate accounting in the future. Here's a lot to learn from Oslo Municipality and our alternative budget. We need incentives and instruments that stimulate lower climate pressures and emissions. Keywords are requirements for reuse of both the building body and selected items. We have to be able to make it easier to build new buildings on the skeleton of the old. We know that the least climate-friendly thing we can do is tear and build new ones, and in transformation areas, press areas and 'wasteland' areas, we see that the builders are tearing old industrial buildings to build new dwellings. We have to figure out what we can do to make the construction industry build homes in the old industrial buildings. We also have to work structured to get the electrified construction sites. How can tender processes help to reduce emissions, and how can we help to stimulate short-range and environmentally friendly materials in the future? Both we and the construction industry are impatient. What I'm most excited about is when we want to see the effect of the measures the Council of State boasts of today. Are we able to achieve our goals and achieve a climate change cure by 2030 with the government toolbox?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1190	Digitalization offers great opportunities, both in design and design, knowing in advance, and also in maintenance. So it's an incredibly important field of investment in the construction industry and will help us get better and more environmentally friendly construction. When it comes to public acquisitions, I totally agree that it's a lot about culture. That is why we may need to step in to give good guidance to municipalities, to rapporteurs and local authorities, who make decisions, about what they should choose from, so that they do not get too much praise for the entrepreneurial sector. We have to do something about that balance and the knowledge of the decision maker. It is often the government that is responsible for waste. There may also need to be a greater focus on how to ensure that food waste is sorted differently, and to be more offensive in this area. There have been several people involved with the use of wood. When I was in the nutrition committee, we visited ALI Coffee’s new building. It's the largest industrial building, but they had to import the beams, I think it was from Austria. So when we think about new things, we have to make sure that we have the whole value chain in the different areas, so that we can build up industry where we see that Norway has advantages and opportunities to build up. Three is also much easier, so it facilitates that one can build an extra floor much easier on existing foundations. It's also an option that maybe more should be obs. In Bergen, high-school students gave us insights: Why not create a system where local forest owners and those who build could have closer dialogues to order different wood varieties, so that we had a short journey of wood. I meet a lot of creativity, but it seems like it's just like some columns that stop that creativity, and being able to break them down, which I also understood the minister was concerned about, at least the Labour Party believes is important to get space forward. Then it's research. I mentioned in the main post that there is little research in this field. I have two challenges left: one that I want the Council of State to say something about is the commitment to research and the framework there, and how to look at the ambitions of the European Union. Can we learn from the EU in this context? Although we have other builders and use other materials, at least they now have a strong focus on circular and lift up residential areas in this area, and actually take the whole chain. We should have them as inspiration, and also the Swedes, as I mentioned instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1205	The representative, Andersen, said that we have to afford innovation, and of course I agree, that it can cost money sometimes. That is why we must also bet on the part of the public sector, and we do. At the same time, I'm concerned that we can't afford not to engage in innovation. It's kind of my input to this. And it's not necessarily that innovation always costs money. Let me take an example of that. Stavanger Municipality was going to buy a new energy management unit and put out a traditional offer. They got an offer of 40 million. kr. It was too expensive. Then they made an innovative acquisition and got an offer of 1.2 million. kr. So they saved almost 39 million. to make an innovative acquisition instead of making a traditional acquisition. The big difference was that the innovative acquisition was completely open to how they were going to solve what they needed, so of course it was a completely different type of solution. But I think that's the methodology we need. We're using 560 billion. kr. innovation every year, but it is not certain that there is necessarily an increase in the resources of the state that triggers more innovation from them. But, of course, we need to contribute to the future. Then we talked about reuse, and I'm also concerned about reuse. One of the things we're working on now is looking at requirements for new buildings – that when you build a new building, it should also be possible to pick it apart if it becomes necessary, that is, you build a building more like a building kit and you can take out modules, so it's easier to reuse modules from construction. We are now reusing the hole cover from the old government quarter in other buildings around Oslo. The teak floor in the Y block is now being used in the old U.S. embassy. That's very good. But it has to be done much more systematically if there's to be a scale and thus an economy in this. I do not agree that we are greedy about the money. Among other things, Enova has been enormously strengthened in recent years, and also the Eco-Technology Scheme and Innovation Norway. So that's not what it's saying, there's other things that might have to do to trigger it. There was also talk about EU ambitions. And yes, I'm absolutely sure we have something to learn from the EU in some cases. I think the EU also has something to learn from us. I think interaction is important. Let us remember that one of the things that the industry is now complaining about is in the way of increased re-use is the construction product regulation, which is, of course, just coming from the EU. So we need to have close dialogue with European authorities, too, in order for the framework to be in place, so that we can unlock the potential here in Norway. Of course, research is also important, and the SkattenFunn scheme is important in this context. Let me also say that we produce guides in a lot of areas, including in these areas, to the municipalities, so that they are well protected. But a supervisor may not be enough, it also needs to be working on this locally in every single public enterprise to really exploit the potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1222	The debate on substance is then closed. 16 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1240	With this interpellation, I want to put a spotlight on how we can contribute to good, safe neighborhoods. There's a lot more we can do than turn up a few million to area bets. The area initiatives are good and show that the state and the municipalities see the challenges in areas with living conditions challenges, but little will help if the big money does not come. As a director of the House Bank said in connection with the upgrading of parks and outdoor areas in the Groruddals bet: A new bench does not help those who do not have a job, to qualify for work. This is at the heart of work against inequality and living conditions differences. No political task is more important than getting people a job. Work is the key to the rest. Own money, the sense of mastery, increased dignity, self-occupancy, good health, better integration and social life – all of this will be easier if you have a job to do. The background to the debate I want to travel today is what the state's role as a social developer is going to be when an area is to develop into a good place to live, based on indifference, child poverty and unemployment in Søndre Nordstrand. Territorial efforts cannot and shall not address the challenges of living conditions alone. Many policy areas have to play together. Regional initiatives are not a separate instrument to balance living conditions differences. What the area initiatives do is to work with better services and communities, which can in the long run work as a life-style balancing tool. Housing prices are important for the composition of residents, which in turn has an impact on the local environment, both the physical environment, the provision of services, social life and security, which in turn has an impact on reputation and attractiveness. Yesterday I got a lot of input from people at Holmlia about what the state can do to help create good neighborhoods. It's by no means an idea-dryer, but it costs money. At the same time, we know that prevention is cheaper than extinguishing fires. That's why I want to mention some of the suggestions I got from those who have the shoes on: The state can systematically investigate the reasons for moving out of the urban district and systematically investigate the reasons for opting out of the secondary school. The State may systematically use the acquired knowledge to prevent the relocation and removal of secondary schools. The country should finance basic leisure activities so that everyone can afford to send children to leisure activities. The state can support the city council's summer job offer and also expand the offer to help young people work as trainers in the local football team. The State may set up projects in cooperation with the school and the FAU and sport and other recreational activities for raising parental participation in children’s recreational activities. The State may provide and establish or test a local labour market in which enterprises employ local unemployed persons and may give preference to competition for public tenders. The country may extend the use of wage subsidies for local enterprises employing local unemployed. The state can strengthen local cultural and artistic scenes and establish good arenas to make the area even more attractive to creative and innovative businesses or people. The state can contribute to an active local enterprise policy in which local government and the city are actively working to make the district attractive to entrepreneurs, through guidance, support schemes and property development. The state can re-establish close police — that is, a permanent police force, not a visiting police force — in order to ensure the security of the community. The State may test new methods of crime prevention and relapse prevention for young offenders through exit projects where access to paid employment and qualification is central. The City Council has already launched a site on Mortensrud for testing concepts for new roads into the housing market. The state can participate in and develop new methods and amend the Planning and Building Act so that municipalities can ask private developers to contribute to the development of new book covers. The State should allow the district to become a test area for the liquidation of cash support, where language training and qualification measures are offered instead of cash support. This was a pinch of the recordings I got late last night. The local exposure is large. There is also a NOU on the subject of the thematics during 2020. It would have been nice if the Council of State could give us a loophole on this work. When will it be done? Will it be done before Christmas? The most important thing about today's debate is to hear what the Council of State thinks the government can contribute to creating a good living environment, apart from the efforts in area interventions. What structural changes does the Council of State see as crucial to providing social mobility in areas facing living conditions challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1284	I am pleased that the representative Gassemyr Staalesen is addressing the challenges in areas that are vulnerable to living conditions. The representative points to a number of challenges that characterise some of these areas, and asks what should be the role of the country as a social developer when developing an area into a good place to live. Basically, municipalities have the primary responsibility for being community developers at local level. The responsibility of the State is primarily to ensure that the municipalities have the framework conditions and tools they need to perform their tasks in a good way. In the ‘National expectations for regional and municipal planning’, the government emphasises that municipalities are to counteract and prevent the accumulation of living conditions challenges in their planning. But as the representative points out, there are some areas in our largest cities that have so big and complex challenges that the municipality needs extra close cooperation with the state to find good solutions. The government is committed to helping Norway achieve its sustainability targets by 2030. We need to eradicate poverty, combat inequality and stop climate change. We can do that only through local efforts. We need to develop Norwegian cities and communities to become inclusive, safe and sustainable. For many years, the state has cooperated with several major cities on additional efforts in areas with specific living conditions challenges. Life-threatening areas are often characterised by poor living conditions, poverty, high unemployment, child poverty, large immigrant populations, high levels of crime and other challenges. The challenges are very complex and complex and require coordinated efforts from many agencies to obtain good results — both government, municipal, private and voluntary. State and municipal authorities are therefore cooperating on regional initiatives aimed at reducing poverty and inequality. In the government's proposal for a 2021 government budget, we propose a total allocation of some 208 million. kr for area operations – more than seven budgets of departments. Area actions shall provide better services and improve the neighbourhood where the needs are greatest. Several shall become economically independent and actively involved in their community and in the wider community. Area initiatives help to increase the number of people involved and to improve the integration of immigrants. They need to improve school outcomes, reduce high school drop-outs and fight crime. The site initiatives create more attractive and green neighbourhoods, which facilitate physical activity, natural experience and social inclusion. Voluntary organisations offering sport, art and culture provide some of the most important leisure activities for children and young people in Norway. Leisure clubs, youth clubs and open meeting places are also important leisure venues for children and young people. These are also important areas for action in the area. Preventing crime requires a broad approach and is therefore a common responsibility for the public sector at all levels and for civil society. Interactions between police, city and other state and municipal actors are essential for finding lasting solutions for individual children and young people. The Ministry of Justice and Defence contributes to the Oslo area operations with funds earmarked for the police. A total of 37 million bets. kr is proposed to be continued in 2021. Many children and young people in poor families have little resources from home. Growing up in life-threatening areas, they will also often experience a collective resource poverty in the neighbourhood. The neighbourhood is an important part of the growing-up environment of children and young people and has an impact on their development. We want to help break the negative spiral resulting from the reproduction of living conditions challenges in certain groups and in some areas. The government’s integration reform helps to give more refugees and immigrants better opportunities to participate in jobs, education and society. The coronary apathy and infectious diseases measures have created a more difficult situation for vulnerable groups in the labour market. We have gone from low to high leave, and we have to assume that fewer employers have the capacity to work with targeted inclusion than before the pandemic. As a response to the Korona crisis, the government has therefore provided an opportunity for more people to combine daily pay with training. In the future, it is important that vulnerable groups no longer be pushed away from the labour market, but receive the assistance they need to get into work. This makes efforts for inclusion in the labour market even more important than before. The government will therefore intensify the work on inclusion. The government has recently presented a cooperation strategy for children and young people to promote participation and strengthen the opportunities for children living in low-income families. The central stakes in the 2021 budget are the increase in child benefit and one-off benefit, the continuation and extension of the pilot project with the national leisure card scheme, the lower parental benefit in the SFO and the free SFO for families with low income in selected municipalities. The strategy shall strengthen the opportunities for children growing up in families with poor advice and contribute to the prevention of poverty. The strategy focuses on measures that provide children with the same opportunities as their peers, including: to conduct training courses, to have good and safe living conditions, to participate in organised leisure activities and to gain better access to health services. Children in low-income families often live worse and needier than others, and they rarely live in a home owned by the family itself. Children’s families living in municipal rental homes often have lower housing standards, and they have more unsafe living conditions than others. The government will therefore strengthen efforts aimed at children growing up in families with persistently low incomes. The government will facilitate as many as possible to own their housing, including: through start-up loans. The house bank shall give priority to helping disadvantaged people from rental to ownership. In the state budget for 2021, the government proposes a loan framework in the House Bank of 20 billion. kr. That's an increase of 4 billion. kr from the 2020 budget. The government thus proposes that the initial loan be continued and that several loans may be granted for rentals and housing quality. In 2021, more than 8 000 households may be given the opportunity to own their own dwellings through the start-up loan scheme. Since 2013, there are 50,000 people who have received 50 billion. kr in loans from the House Bank for initial loans and thus the possibility of owning their own home. Safe and good housing is important to reduce poverty, and housing support is an effective tool to help those who need it the most. In the state budget for 2021, the government therefore proposes to strengthen the housing aid scheme by an additional 82.4 million. NOK 3049 million. Total kr. Since 2013, it has been given over 22 billion. kr in housing stock. The scheme has improved for families with children and keeps pace with price developments. In the state budget for 2021, the government also proposes to change housing support so that in families where children have shared residence, both parents can count on the child in the housing aid application. It will make the housing situation better for about 400 households. The Government also proposes to reduce the minimum payment of the housing aid. We're on the right track, but we're not on the right track. Therefore, the government will present a new strategy for housing social policy during the autumn. Governments will reduce poverty and increase social mobility by including more people in the labour market and reducing the risk of living conditions challenges being inherited. This is to be done both through the general welfare policy and in cooperation with the major cities on bets in the most vulnerable areas of life. Let me add that I agree with the representative of Gassemyr Staales that one of the most important things is to make sure that those who are outside the labour market get to work. Having a job to go to is the key to solving a lot of the challenges that we face in life-threatening areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1322	I was a little bit unsure of how to solve this interpolation. The question is important, but what should I take the word and say something about in the hall? Should I ram up all the budget lines where the Workers' Party has added, subtracted and prioritised differently? I think the most important thing now is to get answers to what the Council of State thinks is the most important thing. What does the Council of State think is the most important thing we can do to prevent poverty from inheriting, and what does the government actually do to qualify more people for work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1329	I mean, I was into a lot of this in my post, but one of the most important things to do about inequality and living conditions challenges is just that people have a job to go to, as we talked about. This is why the government has focused more on measures to help get more people to work. Not least the many who came to Norway as refugees in the wake of the Syria crisis and, as we know, are overrepresented in the statistics on people without suitable housing, and people outside the labour market. The inclusion capacity and the integration promise are also important responses to the challenges faced by the representative Staales. Of course, there are initiatives that we follow up in the budgets in the future. I have great faith in the tools of housing social policy. Making sure that there are good and safe frameworks around the growth of children is important. Through the start-up loan scheme, we help disadvantaged people who have persistent problems getting into the housing market to have the opportunity to own their own housing and thus to have a safe, stable and good framework. It's important, especially for children and their growth. In addition, we provide housing support and also have other arrangements through the House Bank that contribute to housing social policy. To ensure that we are accurate in the future, we present a new housing social policy during the autumn, which hopefully will also respond to some of the challenges that the representative addresses. The government has also been committed to giving children and young people equal opportunities regardless of their starting point. The system we have with leisure cards, which we are now trying out, is an important step in that direction, but also cheaper SFOs for those who need it, and cheaper kindergartens for those who need it, are part of that effort – that everyone should have equal opportunities regardless of the starting point they had initially. I would also like to refer to the strategy put forward by the government on Friday, because it is quite fresh, namely the cooperation strategy for children and young people in low-income families, to go from 2020 to 2023. There we are looking at the breadth of the challenges facing low-income families and how we are going to help solve them. There is a difference between increasing the amount of child benefit, especially for the smallest children, and increasing the one-off benefit, to strengthen the national grant scheme to include children and young people and to extend the successful ‘Family for the first time’ programme – to mention something. There are many measures on the stairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1340	If there's one thing a long life in politics has taught me, it's not to listen to what people with power say, but to look at what they do. The council says we're on the right track, but we're not, because poverty is increasing. If living conditions and poverty are the main problem in what we are discussing now, massive tax relief to the richest of the country is not a particularly good solution. It is also not the massive unsocial cuts that this government has stood for, which are directly involved in both the families we are now talking about, and the housing areas where people with poor advice and often poor health and poor conditions have to live – because that is where they can afford to live. It's about breaking the spiral,' said the Council of State. Yes, it does, but then you have to get the assistance you need. You can't do what the government has done, for example. once they have cut off from the AAP scheme, when those who have lost their job and health receive less help and no income for an entire year. It's called quarantine, and it's supposed to help both in health and in the ability to get a job. I do not believe under – not in this case, nor in anyone else. I believe that one distributes more fairly, and that one raises those who live in poverty, because we know that there is a clear link between having bad advice and having bad health and getting sick. And we know that there's a clear connection between being able to work and having poor health. It works on each other, and it doesn't work well. It seems bad and negative, and then it's quite outrageous that the government is doing the opposite of what works. The council says the municipalities are responsible. Yes, but then they also have to get the means they need to do this job better. Governments were also involved in housing policy. Obviously, it's very important. Having a safe home is very important to everyone, and especially to kids, of course. The start-up loan scheme is good for the disadvantaged, but why don't we open it up to young people and others who need to borrow but don't have the parent bank in order? It would have been a very good solution to get more people to own their own home. Year after year, the government cuts the subsidies for rental homes instead of asking themselves why there is no demand for this when we know that the need is great. Perhaps the state contribution is too small? This means that more and more people lose the opportunity to get a foot within the housing market. Why is the government and the Council of State opposed to changing the Planning and Building Act so that municipalities can make social demands for the builders, so that we get mixed areas of residence? Unfortunately, there has been a sales policy in the municipalities where the plots have been sold. This means that you do not have the right to own the plots, and then you cannot make such a claim. But it would have been a very important tool for the plots that are now to be developed, that you had managed to get it done. The Council of State mentions the housing stock. Yeah, it's fallen like a rock in the last ten years. There are some people who get a few dollars more paid out, but they've increased a lot more, and there's a lot of tens of thousands fewer who get now than before. It is not at fault when it has become so much more expensive to live. Many of those with low incomes now have less income than they had before, so the differences are increasing, and the government is doing the opposite of what they should, that is, distributing more. So one little point at the end: if one is not included in a good environment, one is very vulnerable to being entangled into a bad one, and I think that applies in many of these residential areas that the interpellant so cheaply addressed. Then it is important that the government is clear about discrimination and that young people who have grown up in Norway, but who have a foreign background, are constantly told that they never become Norwegian enough, that they are never good enough, that the government continues to finance blogs that spread hatred and dissatisfaction against our immigrant population, that they do not put their partners in place, which constantly make this integration more difficult, and that put many of these young people outside the social context of which they should be a part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1365	As a former municipal councillor for urban development in Bergen, I learned how important it was when we were given regional investment funds, but it was also important that there was general action, for one thing that has no effect, is stigmatisation and the lifting out of some groups. At least we got there very early. Then social measures related to housing are important. I have not been able to follow these recent times, but I see that there are reports from the developers that they are looking at new arrangements to rent, which can be transferred to one that can own. But what we had earlier in Bergen was an obligation to have a cooperation where we built our own housing units among the larger blocks that were just arranged for municipal housing. That flexibility, I think, is incredibly important, so that one gets complex environments. And it's really best for everyone that you have an environment with different population groups, and that it's not too segregated in this area as well. Student housing, especially in Bergen, which has almost all educational institutions in the centre, is also essential to prevent the restructuring that also greatly degrades the housing environment. I guess Frogner House – I guess that’s what it’s called here in this town – has also helped to influence living environments by buying up large, beautiful, old rentals, and then there’s no continuity in who’s using the homes. It's gonna get worse, too. I do not know what measures it is possible to take against it. Work is crucial, and feedback from Bergen is that one has to make sure when one plans that there are good, attractive jobs in all parts of the city. That's also kind of a way. But again, it is the municipality that can influence, but state-friendly, attractive jobs are also very welcome and also give some status to urban areas. Schools – absolutely essential: Bergen is known for the Bergen wave. A great many of those who created that wave were just a teacher who saw the students, saw the talents in them, and got them lifted up and built up their identity. It's incredibly exciting to see how important a school and a teacher can be to just counteract the negative aspects of social challenges in a residential area. However, it is also important that we perhaps prioritise vocational schools in the area of rehabilitation, local schools in the urban areas that are exposed – that they may shine a little more than other buildings. Sport: It is incredibly important that you have good venues to engage in different types of sports, but it is also important to listen to the local population about what they lack, so that more groups can have activities where they can meet. When it comes to immigrants, they often have a different way of meeting them – they're more out there than we are, inviting more people home. Having the places where they can meet as they are used to meeting – and perhaps bring some of the Nordics to a little more outdoor culture – is also incredibly positive. Finally, I was responsible for the drug policy in the last period on behalf of the Workers' Party when I was on the Health Committee. It was a little sad to see that the state, when they invested so much in rehabilitation, which was often about a whole year, did not demand the municipalities to have an organized home – that in the light of all the investment, which had been made healthy to make it work, they did not make demands, because unfortunately many ports returned to the same environment from which they were taken. At least it's an area where I think the state should be clearer – not least human in terms of the perhaps most vulnerable groups – and demand that there be both activity and housing for them afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1384	Those who have the least have had less since 2013. Less disadvantaged owner-occupiers, and only after seven years does the government increase the lending framework to the House Bank. Unemployment is increasing, and the government is unable to qualify those most remote from the labour market for permanent work. In other words, inequalities are increasing under this government. Area initiatives are not close to addressing these structural challenges, but are good for creating better neighbourhoods. Where is it of the big money, the money that's going to help lift families out of permanent poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1391	When I heard Andersen's posts, I was reminded of something that was once said by her former party leader, Kristin Halvorsen. She said that she would eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. But she couldn't. It might underline the point, that this is difficult, it's complex. We have a lot of tools to help people who are struggling to get into the labour market, who are standing permanently outside the housing market, and who live in vulnerable areas. To set up these tools in such a way that they give the best possible results, I hope is a goal that we have in common, magnification and government, but I also think we should have some humility so that this is not so simple, that there is no skill, and that it has to be worked on over time. So it points out that in our time, too, there are things that don't go in the right direction. Yes, that's absolutely right, and we see, among other things, that children with a migrant background constituted 57,2 pst. of all children in households with persistent low income, against 38,8 pst. in 2006. This increase is largely a consequence of refugee policy. And yes, it goes without saying that once Norway has accepted many refugees in this government's time, it also has to determine the statistics, because it takes time to integrate refugees into Norwegian labour and social life. But that doesn't mean we're not going to work on it, and that's why we've created our own integration strategy, which we produced in the autumn of 2018, just to contribute to it, where everything from Norwegian training to many other important instruments to counter exclusion and contribute to higher employment among refugees are priority themes. The representative, Andersen, also said that the municipalities have to get the funds they need. Yeah, I totally agree with that. But I actually don't think there are funds missing. I also think we need to look at how we work, how we work together, how the municipalities work with other actors, and how the state can contribute. It's also a little bit of the purpose of the area initiatives, that we try out new cooperation models and see what works. We had an evaluation of the area initiatives earlier this year, and I think it also gave some important input into how we need to align our efforts in the future in order to get even better results. I understand that in this area, we fully agree on where we are going. So the question is, how do we get there? With the broad list of actions we have, there is a great deal of reason for us to succeed even better in the future. I like, for example. that the number of homeless persons is significantly reduced during this government, inter alia: as a result of an effective policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1402	The interaction debate is closed then. So today's map is ready to debate. The cancellation will now take a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1429	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1440	Case No. 1 is the third time that law enforcement is dealt with and is subject to the rule of law 1 with the adopted note of the Grand Duchy meeting on 13 October 2020. The bill is contested with the note from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1456	President! I just want to say that now we're one too many because it came in one after I set the line. Can I send one out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1461	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1470	Case No. 2 and 3 are the second processing of legal acts and debts of Acts 3 and 4. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy is therefore adopted at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1684	The Socialist Left and Red have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1696	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President assumed that the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party would also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1711	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1723	During the debate, Mr Aasrud presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider exempting several groups, such as hospital staff, from curtailment in old age pensions and returning to the Stortinge in an appropriate way’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1798	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1808	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1814	It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1824	Right, Left and Christian People's Party have warned that they want to speak against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1866	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1876	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1888	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for visas to be applied for in several foreign stations and for visits to close family, partner or girlfriend where quarantine can be carried out in suitable housing’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1971	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e1982	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2045	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2055	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2105	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2117	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President assumed that the Advance Party would vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2132	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2242	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2252	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2264	The Committee had recommended the Stortingen to take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2303	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2313	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. Case No. 14–17 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-20.ana.ud455e2412	As a result, the issues on today's map are finished. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
