ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e42	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Vetle Wang Soleim on parental leave from 11 January to 26 February from the representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand on parental leave from 4 January to 26 February On a proposal, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet in Stortinget from 11 January to 25 February: For More and Romesdal: Anders Riise For Uppland: Aud Hove
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e81	The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 4 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. No objections have been raised — and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e100	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e117	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with replies after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e126	I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation, but I also want to thank them on the Storting, which means that the sum of all our thoughts and ideas ends up in an understandable setting. Committee Secretaries, Committee Secretariat, Depositary Secretariat, Text Centre, Editors, Printers, Post Office, Post Office, Meeting Room Service, Presidency, etc. – Thank you very much for the job they have done, and for the fact that when the decision is taken by the government party and the Progress Party, a jam will set up a Saturday before Christmas so that we can also hold this debate. Nearly 200,000 Nordics go into Christmas as unemployed. Many self-employed people have difficult times with low ignition. There are many businesses and industries that see dark clouds in the horizon in 2021. The center party is troubled, and we think we have to do more for all those who now experience insecurity. I really hope that the people who experience this turmoil have not followed the budget debates in Stortinget. For what would they have seen? They would have seen three government parties and the supporting party of theirs that are so happy. They're so happy with their own efforts. They don't think in any way that things could have been better done. The government party is saturated. The Christian People's Party and the Left seem to have disappeared. The party of progress is the more positive and occupied by the government now than they were in the government they themselves put in. We praised the crisis management in spring. It was a high tempo, wide equation, a recognition that not everything was perfect. That rose is no reason to give the government now. Governments seem to be hooked on crisis packages, with press conferences. Still the answer is short-term crisis packages where solutions should have our long-term prospects – crisis plans, not crisis packages. The worst thing is that we now see that the government was more or less outlawed when wave two of the corona came. We've also seen a lot of big money crisis packages when they're presented, but they're arranged in a way that doesn't make the money come out to businesses. The centre party is more long-term in its crisis work. And we'd like to admit, our solutions are not perfect. But we listen to different industries and organizations to find the best possible solutions. It has been a special situation to experience that when we take the fight for our three airlines, onions, SAS and Norwegian, the reaction from the Right is to ridicule and ridicule. But the Center Party's mission is to fight for Norwegian jobs, Norwegian land, sea and air value creation. It's part of our democracy that the government has to stick to what the Great Government decides. Sending a message saying that one of them is inconsistent with the decision taken by the Stortinge. That's what the government has done when it comes to a decision we made, where the majority of the Stortinge said no to expand the wolf's son. So there the government rises above democracy and sends a letter, refers to things that have been said in the hall, and concludes that one will not follow up the decision. For this reason, we have tabled a proposal today which says that one should follow up the decision, but instructs the government to follow up the decision. We expect the parties who supported this proposal in the previous round, 7 December, to continue to do so. When there are 200,000 Northmen who go into Christmas as unemployed, worry and take us into the Center Party, and that's also what characterizes our alternative budget. For the Centre Party, Norwegian jobs, Norwegian value creation and security for workers are the number one job. With that, I will take up the suggestions that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e147	The representative Geir Pollestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e154	In 12 days' time this year is the year over, and the State budget will come into force. One of many ways to finance the Central Party's money flow is to increase the wealth tax, send a bill to the owners in a crisis. But I'm not going to talk about it, I'm going to talk about 3.5 billion. kr i cut to EEA contribution. This means that in 12 days' time, if the Central Party had ruled now, half the EEA contribution would have broken an agreement, the main agreement Norway has, where 80 pst. of Norwegian exports. Given how it has been in England, four years of negotiations in order to achieve a new agreement, how does the representative see that an agreement with the EU should be renegotiated within 12 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e161	I think one of the things we're going to figure out when the Center Party takes over is that we're not going to be on a Saturday before Christmas and we're going to deal with the state budget. We want to follow the process set up by Stortinget for the state budget, and we want to work on these things in the government's government proposal to the state budget if we are so lucky that we're allowed to come to the government offices after the election. I mean, what we're doing in the EEA funds is quite fair. I mean that we pay overprice for the value of the market access we get. We see that the government is completely uncritical of cutting in the EEA funds while at the same time being willing to admit to agriculture, to which we are also negative. And then I think that one could be a little tall and dark, if it wasn't for the right in the budget deal itself to cut in the EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e168	Pollestad is occupied by Norwegian workers. I think everyone in this room is. I don't think that's unique in that way. But what's quite unique about the Center Party, to follow up a little bit of what the representative Eidem Løvaas was about, is that in 12 days, the Centre Party is going to terminate the EEA Agreement. The United Kingdom, with its 65 million inhabitants and Europe’s second largest economy, has spent quite a long time, and they are not getting out of divorce with the EU. Why, then, does the Senterpartiet expect Norway, with its 5.5 million inhabitants, to be able to do the job that you yourself point to, in 12 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e173	I expect a certain amount of truth in the questions that come. So here it is said that the Central Party will terminate the EEA Agreement in 12 days. There is absolutely no suggestion in our alternative state budget to cancel the EEA Agreement. But we are deeply concerned about the democratic deficit contained in the EEA Agreement. And it disappoints me a little bit that the Left Party does not share that concern. It also disappoints me that the Left has now gone to become perhaps one of the country's most thought-out yes-to-EU party. It's bad news for us who are busy with value creation and jobs throughout the country. So I think the representative can sleep well at night, and the comfort is that we want to work long-term with these things. We want a better alternative relationship with the EU. I also think that the government party should be more positive to the United Kingdom, and not just as busy in Brussels as it is at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e178	This representative sleeps reasonably well at night, but it is not certain that all residents along the Norwegian coast should do so when we know that every fourth employee in Norwegian business is working in an export enterprise, and the majority of those exports go to EU countries. Looking at the export list per country, there is a clear breach of the EU and EEA Agreement, so that jobs in districts are hit hardest. How does the representative feel that it harmonises with the district profile of the Central Party and how will the Central Party actually achieve a better agreement for all districts that are fully dependent on an EEA agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e183	It is quite right that our desire is to establish a better trade agreement and with a significantly less democratic deficit than that of today's EEA Agreement. The representative can be absolutely sure of that. So it's a little sad to see that the only government is able to meet the Center Party with are threats and scares. I mean, if you're busy with the coast, which is now in question here, you should have said something about why not let the coastal communities get one percent or two of the 2 billion. kr that was in the case of growing concessions. One should have been a little concerned about why it is now that the government has turned the fishing industry into a dairy to bring in more fees. I think the government party should have looked at its own policy, because here it's not just to scare with the EEA, one has a responsibility for the policy that one itself is pursuing, and in this year's budget, the government and the support party add up to a coastal-enemy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e188	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e194	We're in a very demanding time. The pandemic's here. It hits people and it hits businesses. About 200,000 people out there are out of work. In the NHO’s latest survey of its member companies, we hear that one in seven companies is afraid of bankruptcy. If we go out of the pandemic and look into the Norwegian economy otherwise, we see that there are few OECD countries that have had weaker market shares in world trade than Norway in the last ten years. We are struggling with the conversion, and the Norwegian economy is more than ever dependent on oil lubrication. It is the right-wing parties and the business policy that have been in place for the last seven years that have to take responsibility for this. The right-wing parties, together with the Progress Party, must also bear the responsibility that we have a compensation scheme that does not meet well enough. They also have to bear the responsibility that we have a system that does not allow us to have the money paid quickly enough, and that many companies will go bankrupt and people will lose the job as a result. They must also be responsible for voting on proposals from the Workers' Party, which had far better taken the businesses in the situation in which they are. In the Workers' Party, we have three important objectives of industrial policy. We want to cancel the passive approach of the right-hand side to industrial policy and to redeem it with an active industrial policy. We want to secure safe jobs for people. Working for everyone is our main goal. We will provide high value creation, strong export industries and revenues that ensure high well-being and small differences, a sustainable welfare society. We will make sure that we use the entire country and exploit the amazing natural resources that are there. In the autumn, the right-hand side has committed itself to saying no to the sale of Norway and yes to active state ownership. I can assure you that we are very much in favour of an active state ownership because the state's ownership role is important for Norway, for people and for our future. State power, Equinor, Hydro, Yara, Telenor, DNB, just to name a few, are solid corporations, have strong international positions, and they give returns and crowns. 17.4 B.C.E. kr in income we budget in 2021. But they also give us as a nation valuable competence. They are engines that contribute to the development of other companies, and they are success stories both together and separately. The state ownership is important, even though the right side has the mantra that they want to liquidate it. We are therefore voting against the sale of state companies today. We're going the other way. We would like, among other things: give Statkraft 1 billion. kr in increased equity because we want State power to be an engine in the development of hydrogen in Norway. We can succeed, in other words, but then we have to be clear that we want to take advantage of the amazing opportunities we have. In the Workers' Party we have now set ourselves a goal: we want to increase exports outside oil and gas by at least 50 pst. by 2030. Why? Well, because it's essential for us to have sustainability in our welfare society, in order for us to have a high level of well-being. For this reason, we also propose concrete, targeted measures in the State budget that would have made the situation much better for the export industries and increase the opportunities for new industries to become significant in the context of exports. If we look around the Norwegian business world right now, we see that there are many who are struggling. The maritime sector is one of the areas that is important. That's where we're going to build a lot of the future, with liquid sea wind, carbon capture and storage, blue hydrogen, food production at sea, underwater minerals, etc., etc. But they're struggling. Reports suggest that much of the industry may be gone by 2022. The shipyards may lose 55 pst. by the employees. In the State budget, the industry is virtually not mentioned at all. We see that maritime nutrition is modestly included. They suggested something as incomprehensible as cutting off the net pay system for seafarers, a system that is just about to entertain and ensure that seafarers have work. It's almost like they've placed the seafarers on a board, a board that they hope the Advance Party will take and try to get back into place. Of course, this is a game for the gallery, and for the Progress Party to be able to reap some of the glory because they have saved the seafarers. But it's becoming a game, and that's how they deal with ordinary people. There is no doubt that the Progress Party has failed the seafarers when there have been important issues on the agenda, not least when we are dealing with our proposal on Norwegian wage and working conditions. Then they left a sample to the right, a sample to be trusted, and it tries to destroy the situation of the Norwegian maritime industry and Norwegian maritime pride from batches on which they have the opportunity every day. I will deal with the proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e219	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e226	The party of progress is the seafarers' party. I was very pleased that Aasland also mentioned the seafarers in his post. We removed the ceiling for the net pay for offshore ships for the first and second semesters, and we also removed the ceiling for the third semester. In addition, we removed the roof for NIS ships. We secured 150 million. kr to the Offshore Ship Decommissioning Facility, and we got by extending the Building Loan Guarantee Facility in GIEK. During the debate on the financial position, several of the Workers' Party's representatives were up and heartily trying to criticise the maritime package we got through in the conciliation. Have the representatives of the Labour Party now realised that the maritime solution in the budget agreement was significantly better than the Labour Party had proposed in its own budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e235	So it's wrong to take. If someone really stood up for the seafarers, it's the Workers' Party. We were the ones who put forward a proposal on demands for Norwegian pay and working conditions. It was the Progress Party that voted it down in this Chamber. We were the ones who would create predictability through the net pay scheme and the related schemes. But it is the Progress Party that must take responsibility for having put the shipowners' party, Right, into the government, which every time they get a chance, will cut into schemes that are absolutely essential to maintain the safety of seafarers for work and income. If there is someone who has really failed and is flying under a false flag, it is the Advance Party. Taking the maritime effort in total in the budget, in addition to the seafarers, we have the Advance Party and the government parties 150 million. kr to a conditioning system. The working party has far more than that. I can refer the figures of the representative if he is interested in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e242	I record that the representative does not want to answer the question, and I fully understand that. In the debate on the financial situation, three weeks old articles were used to reduce the conciliation that took place two days before the debate. Some arguments that don't quite hold water are used to use that expression. In the case of the Offshore Disembarkation Scheme, the figure was 50 million. More than the Labour Party proposed in its alternative budget, and we had considerable strengths in relation to the Labour Party's proposed budget. Isn't it in place perhaps to admit and lay down a little flat and say that the settlement was actually better than the Workers' Party itself had proposed in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e249	I am glad that the Progress Party was able to reverse the cuts proposed by the government, completely incomprehensible, for Norwegian seafarers, because it would be a tragedy if they had stayed standing. But the Workers' Party has never considered cutting into such a kind of arrangement, which is just about employing the seafarers. Nor have we ever doubted that it is important that this room adopts a condition that we should have Norwegian pay and working conditions on board Norwegian boats on a Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters. When we take the maritime package in total, we had 100 million. kr to the conditioning system. We had a top funding scheme of 150 million. NOK, we had zero-emission speedboats to SEK 125 million. NOK, and we had a Maroff program for $20 million. kr. But there is nothing else in the budget for which the Progress Party is responsible, except the 150 million. kr to the conditioning scheme. So the Maritime Package of the Labour Party is much more powerful and would much more take into account the situation of the maritime sector, and would create much better activity than the one the Progress Party has created with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e261	The government put forward a good budget, which has now become even better after the agreement with the Progress Party. The draft budget is based on a strategy for getting through the coronary crisis and facilitating the creation and inclusion of more. Our budget is important for the way out of the crisis, but there is no doubt that business is also dependent on other instruments. Therefore, it is important to focus on culture building and knowledge building. These areas also help to determine the attractiveness of industrial activities in Norway and have a significant impact on industrial productivity. The budget agreement makes almost 83 billion. to build roads, bridges and railways. This will contribute to many jobs in the future. Norwegian business has been hit hard by the Korona crisis. Therefore, a number of measures have been taken by the government to help firms that are struggling and to help increase their activity where possible. In the draft budget adopted today, we are helping to strengthen the competitiveness and value creation of industry, and we are giving priority to measures that provide the basis for future growth and more jobs. The reduction of the tax on working capital is important for those who create Norwegian jobs, not least those jobs in Norway that compete with non-addressed business owners in Norway. This is about taxes that business owners have to pay for trucks that have a warehouse made up of chains, or fish cages. It is not about reducing property taxes on luxury cars or yachts. There is no good business policy for our companies, which is currently struggling because of the pandemic, to send a tax bill of over 7 billion. kr, as the Labour Party makes in its draft budget. Furthermore, we in the Right are very pleased with the government's clear commitment to industrial research and innovation. We know that tomorrow's jobs have to be created, but we don't know which jobs it is. But there are many competent people and institutions out there that, with good organisation and good framework conditions, can help create the new products, services and solutions that in turn provide new jobs. That's why they're 9 billion. kr granted for industrial research and innovation, important. This has been an important area of government activity since we took over the government offices in 2013, and the funds for industrial research and innovation have increased by more than 4 billion. kr since 2013. This budget sets out a clear green profile. We will achieve our climate objectives, and then appropriations will have to follow the changes that will happen in the future. That is why the budget proposes to allocate 33 million. kr to a green platform, and in particular 700 million. kr to Nysnø to secure capital for companies that will invest in the green shift. Now we could read in the media here a day that the Wilhelmsen group gets 219 million. kr from Enova to two hydrogen-powered cargo ships to be operated between Norwegian oil bases. This is important for the maritime industry and for the climate. Norway is a small, open economy, and we rely on trade with the world around us to sell our goods and services. With the EEA Agreement, we ensure access to a market with over 500 million people. It is important to ensure jobs and housing throughout the country, not least in District Norway. Reducing the budget line for international agreements by 3.5 billion. kr, as the centre party does, is almost comparable to letting the water go in the pants when a freezer – it’s hot and okay there and then, but then the broken bitterly purchased experience comes. When we see the brexit and the consequences of it, there should be a warning to politicians to stay away from such thinking. The government sees the importance of interacting with the world beyond our borders. Therefore, it is proposed that 100 million. kr for a reinforced strategic commitment to export promotion, as an action to follow up the government’s export action plan. The government has already taken an important and requested action from industry by bringing together GIEK and Export Credit Norway, in order to make the financing offer easier for business and to create a more efficient export finance system. The State budget proposes that more jobs should be created in more industries throughout the country, and we need to ensure more legs to stand on. More must be included, and the future is blue-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e285	We had a debate here in the Chamber not so long ago as it was about law and crisis packages, and the opposition was then criticised for discussing crisis packages and the crisis in the wrong debate – we were supposed to do that today. But I heard the representative Ebbesen talk little about the crisis that now affects a lot of businesses, not least in the part of the country in which the representative Ebbesen lives. We have proposed many things on the part of the Workers' Party, not least a valve arrangement to ensure that the companies are better taken, and extended permitting arrangements to ensure security for those who are now meeting a very insecure Christmas and New Year's Eve. It is critical that there is no payment mechanism in place, which is now going to have major consequences for many businesses. My question is, Should you be better? Does the representative Ebbesen agree with the Workers' Party that, in May, when one knew that a payment scheme could not be used, a new one should be developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e294	Clearly, the crisis that the country is in and that the real world is in is huge, and it affects very, very many. I am very pleased that we have taken a lot of action in Stortinget and made very important adjustments to the arrangements that the government has contributed to. It's only been granted this year 131 billion. kr to firms that are struggling, to employees who are struggling, to ensure the economic situation for them. The budget for 2021 proposes more than 15 billion. kr for the first crisis packages. I expect that there may be new crisis packages, which is why I am very pleased that the system that is now being established at the Brønn Island Health Registers has the opportunity to proceed quickly if emergency measures are needed beyond 1 March. What is important is to see that the crisis packages we have had have helped many small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e302	It is good to hear that the representative Ebbesen is satisfied with his own and the party's efforts in the budget. Right has the Prime Minister, and Right has the Minister of Finance. So with that in mind, the government proposes to cut off support for the seafarers in the middle of a crisis. One takes down the net pay scheme, one goes away from the principle that one should be careful, and makes a cut. My question is really: is it cutting down on the net pay system the policy of the Right, or is it something that the Christian People's Party and the Left have put in place in the government? Or is it, as I may have a suspicion, something that one has put in as a budgetary trap to arrange a budget agreement in the Stortinget? But my question is, Is it to cut in support of the Maritime Right Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e311	Thank you for a good question, and thank you for a good trust. As the representative said, it is the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister who governs much of what is happening in the government. I have not been on the inside of those negotiations, and what is the basis for the proposal being presented, but I am very pleased today in Stortinget with the agreement we have had with the Progress Party, and that we have put in place the net pay system as we have now. I think that is very, very good, and it also shows that we have a good democracy, which makes the Storting a living democracy, in which we are allowed to participate in negotiating good solutions. I'm very pleased with that. Otherwise, there are very many good measures in the government budget that the government has put forward, with good solutions for the maritime sector and for the seafarers also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e320	We're standing here in front of a government budget where the industry is very narrow. All opposition parties have significantly greater stakes than the government has, in the middle of a time when business throughout the country is fading due to both pandemic and economic development. What has been a major contribution to this government is a wealth tax code, and it has been based on industrial policy. But the government has not been able to demonstrate any nutritional effect of wealth tax cuts, and even its own editors have shown that it does not have the effect that the government had wanted. So all these tens of billions that have gone to property taxes, one actually hasn't managed to do anything for has had any nutritional effect, which has made many people ask the question: is this business policy at all? My question is, can the representative Margunn Ebbesen give one example — one example — of a documented case where the wealth tax code has led to economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e329	To put it this way: I don't think any companies that are struggling today are looking forward to a tax increase, which they will get if it were to be a red-green government shift. I don't think anyone out there is going to stand on the steps of the representative County and ask for an increased tax bill. I think the most important thing we can do in the future is to secure the framework conditions for the companies that are struggling out there, and not to increase their tax requirements. To facilitate the creation of jobs, to see the value of people making money, to be able to revitalize business, I think it's a good quality. The income they receive uses them to create new jobs. I understand that the representative Fylkesnes does not have that opinion, but to say it this way: we would not have had many new, exciting jobs if it had not been for us to have entrepreneurs and those who make money, who spend the money on new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e338	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e343	It is no secret that the Progress Party was disappointed with the government's draft budget. The drawer was particularly applicable to the maritime industry. It's an industry in crisis because of both oil price falls and corona. Records of ships are in storage, and almost 20,000 jobs were at risk of loss before 2022. At the same time, it's one of Norway's most important industries, where we claim to be in international competition. The cut in the net pay scheme was particularly incomprehensible because it affects direct employment of Norwegian seafarers and the competitiveness of Norwegian maritime transport internationally. That is why it was one of our main demands in the budget negotiations that the maritime industry package should be significantly strengthened, and in particular the net pay system. That's what we got through. The promotion party fought through the reversal of the government’s proposal for a cut in the net pay scheme. Not enough with that: we got a pass to cancel the maximum in the premium model for petroleum ships in NOR. We removed the roof for construction ships in NIS and the general grant model for NIS for the first, second and third semester 2021. We were able to make a contribution to the 150-million ship mastering scheme. kr, which shall also apply to offshore vessels. We were able to extend the building loan guarantee in GIEK to cover advance guarantees, so that GIEK can provide advance guarantees of up to 50 pst. We also got taxed at source on physical resources. As a cherry on the cream, we also got 6 million. kr to the three sailboats, which is the symbol of Norwegian maritime history: Christian Radich, Staatsraad Lehmkuhl and Sørlanden. It is very nice to see that the whole industry is satisfied with the work we have done. Maritime Forum writes that the Progress Party has ‘listened to the industry and is now helping to lower its shoulders along the coast’. It's because you really feel like you've made a difference as a politician. We have been able to see through many other matters and industries that are important to the Progress Party. One is the mineral industry. Norwegian minerals will become more important for the development of green technologies, especially if the objective is to reduce dependence on the mineral resources of Asia. The industry will also be able to provide thousands of new jobs, especially in the districts. In this year's alternative budget, we proposed to establish a state capital fund and strengthen the monitoring of mineral resources and reduce concession queues. The last thing we heard in the negotiations, and the government is going to come back to Stortingen with proposals for improvements and simplifications in the Mineral Law to improve coordination and reduce time use. It will reduce concession queues and make industry more attractive. Another thing I'm glad we got through to is the system of differentiated periodic penalty payments. In particular, it will make survival easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. Now it's like, whether you're big or small, you have high earnings or low earnings, you have to pay the same thing if you're forced to pay. Large enterprises usually do not have any problems paying for them. For a small enterprise, there may be the difference between surviving and going bankrupt. We want an economy where many common people dare to take the chance of starting up their own business. They should be cheered on and not punished so hard that they are forced to put down if they make a mistake. The budget agreement is a very good food budget to help create and secure jobs in the whole country, which is very gratifying to the fact that the Progress Party got in place. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e362	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt then mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e369	It's kind of nice to see the pride of the Progress Party, which has managed to reverse a completely incomprehensible cut in the net pay system, but the responsibility for having a government that cuts the net pay system is just the Progress Party. It is those who are the parliamentary basis of this government that do not understand the need for security. The authenticity of the Progress Party towards the Seafarers is all reason to doubt it. First, they were for the creation of NIS, they would promote NIS for the entire Norwegian base from day one, they would put Norwegian seafarers from Color Line ashore from the government offices, and then take foreign workers on board, and lastly, when they had the opportunity to make a very clear demand that there should be Norwegian wage and working conditions on Norwegian base and in Norwegian waters, they also failed. When will the Progress Party take the seafarers seriously, and when will they use the power that lies in this Chamber, to be clear in the conditions that will apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e378	I just have to agree with the representative of Aasland that the cut off from the government of the seafarers was incomprehensible, but I do not understand the criticism of the Workers' Party and Aasland against the Advance Party, which is proven to be the seafarer's party. We removed the ceiling of the net pay for offshore ships for the first and second semester 2021, and in addition we removed the ceiling for the third semester, which is better than the alternative budget for the Workers' Party. We also removed the roof of NIS ships. We deliver better on the net pay scheme than the Workers' Party. We'll secure 150 million. kr on the wreckage scheme, which is actually 50 million. better than the Workers' Party itself proposes in its alternative budget. We also got an extension of the building loan guarantee scheme in GIEK. The Labour Party has not even included this in its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e383	Fish in oil, fish in tomato sauce, fish in career – one can have fish in much, but in this budget, and with the Progress Party that is involved and affecting the fisheries policy, there are fish in charge. It has contributed to the introduction of a quarter of a billion into the CO 2 levy for the fishing industry. One has promised that in the revised budget there will be a fiscal levy on fish of 100 million. kr. In this budget there is an inspection fee of less than 50 million. kr, and the reason is: Because we didn't do anything much worse, they should now get a fee. Then my question is: is there no limit to the charging mechanism that the Progress Party has against the fishing industry? Has the fishing industry been a dairy cow for fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e393	Fish are good, fish are nutritious food, and fish are an important export article for Norway. We have an enormously skilled fishing industry in Norway that contributes every day to creating values and jobs along the coast. Unfortunately, we have some actors who do not fully follow the rules. That's why we're going to go in with the industry so that we can make fish fun of ourselves. We're going to put on land those involved in resource crime, and make sure to support an important industry where a huge number — most — of them are skilled businessmen who run according to the rules of the game. I think it's strange that not the Senter party will also kill the fish falsification, in the same way as the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e399	I asked the representative from the Right about this with a property tax and got no answers. For most of the time, the party of progress has been part of the sitting government, and they moved out in the course of the year that went on, so they've been in all the budgets every year. They've been in the tens of billions of the richest in this country, all the time justified in creating nourishment, but it hasn't. The money could have been used as an alternative. They could have been used for green shipping, they could have been used for industry and business, to build the country. But it hasn't been done. It has a given right in its pocket to a few – not to people most, but to a few. It has become a tradition in this room that the opposition and SV ask: What is the nutritional effect of these tax cuts? Can a document anything? My question is whether the representative can give one – just one, not two – example of the documented nutritional effect of the large investment in wealth tax for the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e406	It does not mean that it is a tax cut only for the richest, as SV so often wants to say. A lot of small family businesses around the whole country and other business are paying taxes today. Hotels pay for coverings and curtains etc., even if they do not have guests. They do not have income for the family business that they have built over generations. I can draw out one example: the furniture ring in Lakselv, which is run by the second generation, by two brothers, would have liked to have invested a little bit in his company to make the working day easier, in order to get a easier working day for his employees. But unfortunately they can't afford it, because they have to pay property taxes on a building mass that's not exactly in the world's hub. Lakselv is even fine, but they don't have the value that makes them realize it for the value that their property tax imposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e413	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e418	Before I forget about it, I take up the suggestions for SV. Now we're going to put a time of crisis behind us after pandemics and economic downturns. We're going to prevent a new one by resolving the climate crisis before destroying our life base. Now there is a need for hope and optimism policies – hope and optimism for the many, not for them. There are workers and those who have at least paid the highest price for the pandemic and the economic crisis. She comes to the top of a long, increasing inequality in power and wealth. The government has failed and has been too weak and too slow to save jobs and to set up for the unemployed. She has seen record numbers of billionaires and records in the number of children growing up in poverty. Global warming can lead us into a new crisis. The actionaries of fossil companies will be fine, but if we act late, it is nature, workers and the common well-being and future spring that will lose. The government has failed and has no plan in this budget for emissions and green migration on the people's premises. If we're going to calculate how far behind the form they are, the 20 years behind the form are to achieve the 2030 climate change targets. It is in the next growing period that it is decided whether the downturn can turn to a flowering time for social smoothing, full employment and the development of well-being. It is in the forthcoming ageing period that it is decided whether Norway’s climate targets can be achieved. It is behind the SV's proposal for an alternative budget. We want a policy for smaller differences, lower emissions and work for everyone. We have to cut, build, share. We're going to cut emissions by making Norway independent of fossil energy and stop the pursuit of oil. We are going to build this country through massive investment in green industry and new development of the welfare state and common good. Then we're going to share good through the radical transformation of the tax system, the working life and the income protection of those who have the least. The budget we have presented here contains measures to move Norway in the direction of more than 39 billion in economic terms. kr more than the government proposes – 39 billion. kr more. It's not because we want to be storks when it comes to budgets, it's because it's because it's necessary that Norway actually meet the time we're now going into. We have bets that extend across all the hopeful industries and industries that Norway is facing, and that can take over the role of oil dependency. It applies to floating sea winds, hydrogen, carbon capture and storage and, not least, to the bio-industry both at sea and on land, and it is green shipping, which we have pointed out as the most excellent industries of the future for Norway. What the government has done is to block the development of this green shift. They include: insisted, together with several other parties here – among others SV's allies, as a tip for my post questioning, on the oil tax package, which effectively prevents investment in these new industries from being introduced to the old regime, the oil dependency that does not lead us towards oil independence. They add a gray re-routing with extra differences instead of a green re-routing with reduced social differences. Policy is needed, priority is needed. One must twist the Norwegian economy in the direction we want to move it in the next time, and that must happen now. To do this, we have proposed next year's budget, among other things. 20 B.C.E. kr to a state-owned green investment company which is to invest directly in future industries. We have a green state investment bank that we're going to raise by 10 billion. kr, because the government needs muscles, business needs help. It's these future industries one has to bet on. If not, nothing will happen. In a normal year, the investment level of the oil industry is between 150 billion. kr and 200 br. kr. It is not in the vicinity of the level of investment in green industry or industry in general. It's 20. kr – often below. If one merges all these high-end industries, they won't even kneel down what's the investment image for the oil industry. There must be a twist, there must be a policy for this. If not, change the holes and blanks to talk about green.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e441	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to at the beginning of his article. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e448	The right will facilitate agriculture throughout the country. In order to achieve this and to make it attractive to be a farmer today, we think it would be a good idea to make it possible to get a little bigger – not European industrial agriculture, but a little bigger, so that new technology can be used, for example. milk robots. We are now getting feedback that young farmers are standing up and saying that agriculture has become sexy, so we must have done something right in the policy we are pursuing today. SV doesn't want to go in that direction, but there's a big paradox in this. Under the Swedish Government, much more small uses were lost, and much more dairy farming was established than under the Solberg administration. Here, there's a big difference between life and learning. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e453	I could use the English term 'no opportunity' for the members of the government for what I'm going to say now, but I don't think it's because of them that the agricultural policy has become sexy. I think it's "time's tooth" – a development in our time that makes people simply search back to the village. But what are you looking back to, what are the framework conditions for establishing yourself in agriculture today? There are simply big thresholds to get into agriculture today. The SV's policy is to put the land back into operation by creating back-up schemes, not to increase the size of the curtains, but to make it more profitable with the more marginal parts of Norwegian agriculture. We want to make rural agriculture profitable again by introducing different new support schemes, for example. operational difficulties, which the government has effectively halted over and over again, making it possible to exploit the area where one today cannot use large machines to house, and to bet on the set-aside and the set-aside for that purpose. We've consistently suggested increasing the yield, so that we can get economics in parts of the country where it's not. This is a policy that will make it possible to meet the desire for a sexy agricultural policy among young people today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e460	After visiting agriculture around the country, I experience great optimism, but there are also some challenges. SV has been a driver of the unloading requirement, and it is very good. It's about animal welfare. But this measure is also very structured, it's cost-effective, and I can't see how it can be defended that SV also wants to take herds down. By limiting herds, people are driven into debt because they then pay for small poultry that do not have the ability to scale up when needed. How can SV defend this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e465	The development we've seen under this government is that the average use for, for example, cows have gone from 20 to about 30 cows. Then the question is which parts of the country can actually use with such large crews. There are more and more limitations. For example: My county, Troms, has been reduced by 40 pst since 1959 with arable land and arable land. It has accelerated in recent years, because one has added up to larger and larger uses, which there is no land to exploit in my region. My region is not entirely unique compared to the rest of the country. Norway is a country with very scattered agricultural resources. Then you have to put in a policy where you get a lot more money for the first animals, instead of a policy where everyone gets bigger and bigger, because there is a policy for less use. What is not least a danger is that we use such a policy, with much less grazing, such as: The disengagement requirement will try to go against – put in place a policy where we are more dependent on inputs from abroad, and there is a life-threatening development for Norwegian food policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e472	In its alternative state budget for 2021, SV proposes to increase the rate of property tax to 1,1 p.m., and as far as I understand, SV will at the same time liquidate the discount scheme for property taxes on working capital. It implies an increase in tax requirements of a total of EUR 11.8 billion. kr, which is largely reduced to owners of small and medium-sized enterprises around the whole of Norway, in the middle of the corona crisis. With the model on which the government uses the property tax, private property, such as private houses and cabins, cars and leisure boats, shall be taxed at a higher rate than the capital invested in, for example. buildings, machinery, manufacturing equipment and stores, thereby generating value creation and jobs. My question is: Does SV think it is good business policy to remove the tax rebate on working capital, such as: owners of a small family hotel in the West have to pay increased property taxes on the hotel’s dinner table and bedding in the middle of the worst crisis in the modern time for Norwegian travel industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e479	Working capital exists, but it's not what the government party and the Christian People's Party believe it is. What they cut into is something completely different. I still have the advantage of seeing a model that actually targets working capital through the tax on wealth. There's no sign of it. Our proposal is to do something about the depreciation scheme for industry and industry. It is a system that directs itself towards machines, equipment, investments, working capital. Developing the big cannons in the hope that it will lead to some kind of work on capital, while the large part of the wealth tax cut goes completely differently – the government is not able to demonstrate any effect at all, except for a few digrecies that the Progress Party has been able to come with in a price-effective way – is what we are left with here. In short, the Swedish tax policy is that we want to increase the level of taxation, but it is not that it spreads across the whole population. With our scheme, it's tax cuts for those who charge less than 600,000 kroner, while those who pay more for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e485	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e490	I am pleased that the Stortinget will today adopt a food budget for 2021 that is on track for the future. The budget cuts emissions, puts on knowledge and provides more jobs. With the Left at the rudder we now have the lowest emissions in 27 years, the number of green jobs is in strong growth, and it's doing relatively well. A number of measures are also taken to strengthen business and create more jobs in the budget. We have a historical commitment to culture, industrial research and innovation. We provide lower taxes on income and Norwegian ownership in Norwegian business. We have changes in the electricity tax that contribute to new investments. Finally, full-scale CO 2 capture and storage and green shipping are being undertaken. Nysnø Climate investment is receiving increased funds. The crisis packages in the context of the coronary crisis have been continued and strengthened in such a way that we provide industry with the necessary respiratory care over a demanding period of time. Business has been hit hard during the Korona crisis and by the Korona crisis. Many people experience insecurity for work and income. This year has been tough for many, and Christmas that is right around the corner, is particularly difficult for many in a very special time. It should just be lacking that the budget is marked by the coronary crisis we are facing. For business and workers, there has been a crisis mood since March. Fortunately, the Stortinget and the government have been forward-looking and delivered crisis packages for travel life, cultural life, the restaurant industry and others, so that they get the best possible through this time. Some industries are doing well, but others work extra hard. Travel life is an example of that. The event and service industries suffer greatly. Restaurant, restaurant and various forms of commercial meeting places have shown great ability to convert through 2020. They have demonstrated the capacity for renewal and innovation to ensure the proper protection of their guests. The industry consists largely of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also important value creators and generate large tax revenues. I am very happy that we got another 250 million in place. kr to small enterprises that are struggling in the municipalities with particularly strict restrictions, in the newly aged budget that came this week. In the left, we have the small and large workforce, because the values must be created before they can be shared. Through value creation and green growth, we ensure well-being and sustainability. I believe that cooperation across borders to address the major challenges of our time is crucial for the success of Norway. We stand on the rocks of the EEA Agreement, which ensures jobs and economic activity throughout the country, but it is a pity that a number of parties sow uncertainty about this. Norway’s relationship with the EU and the EEA is not only demonstrated by economic activity. The budget we are adopting today also shows cooperation on the EU framework programme and a number of research programmes. We recently took part in a European hydrogen investment, one of several important tools for achieving our climate goals. The budget will increase the focus on and strengthen efforts for Norwegian exports, and the export action plans presented in the autumn will be followed up by 75 million. to strengthen and invest in export promotion. The maritime sector is of enormous importance to Norway. Development of ferries and high-speed craft with low and zero emission technologies is fast. The Norwegian maritime industry is at the forefront of development, and over 70 elf ferries are in operation or in order. Unfortunately, the industry is severely affected by the coronary crisis, as well as an oil price that is very low. The subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers ensures Norwegian maritime competence, recruitment of Norwegian seafarers and competitive conditions for Norwegian ships. Reducing support for employment of seafarers in the crisis facing the sector would be unfortunate. I am therefore pleased that the budget agreement has cleared it up and maintained the arrangement. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is extremely important for Norway as a leading port. The budget’s commitment to fisheries control is important in order to ensure sustainability in the marine industries, as is the commitment to research and fisheries management. We need more knowledge about the management of marine resources. Therefore, it is positive that we agree to reinforce research and monitoring efforts through, among other things. The Coastwatch of the Marine Research Institute increased funds for the Veterinary Institute and continued to invest in the co-location of the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate in Bergen. We are lucky with our blue food barrel in Norway, but also the green one, which is very important. Norwegian agriculture is important to maintain food security, value creation, settlement throughout the country and cultural landscapes. Agriculture is also part of the engines of the green shift and an important contributor when we are going to achieve the climate objectives we have through the climate agreement that has been made with agriculture. The forest is nature's own carbon capture and storage facility, and wood can be used for almost everything we use for plastics today. Several people have come to realize that I have a great heart for Mother Agriculture School, which is an arena for innovation and climate in agriculture. They aim to take research and good climate action into business and new green growth and sustainable development businesses. Together with High School Options, Mære has established Blue-green living lab, the aim of which is to test and demonstrate practical solutions to reduce climate change emissions and support the development of circular business. I am pleased that we are strengthening this work on increased appropriations in the budget unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e526	I was not really going to take a line on the representative, but given that the Minister of Industry comes from the same party as the representative of Skkelstad and has not wanted to answer anything when we have asked about the crisis arrangements and the deficiencies that are, I have to ask. You could ask yourself, the left didn't know that there would be a wave of infection. 2, which would require measures that would be appropriate as a hand in dealing with infectious diseases? You haven't answered that, and I understand that, because the answer is that you haven't managed it enough to establish a new payment scheme, because you knew that the tax rate could not continue this. What the government has in common is that you are very satisfied with yourself and talk about being a respirator – as a respirator with a very bad battery. Can the representative of Skkelstad admit that because of his own summer meal, many people will lose their jobs and businesses, just because there are no arrangements in place? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e533	From my point of view – and many around the country – I believe that most people believe that the Minister of Industry and the Department have followed up this crisis in a very good way. Then it's not going to get away from that we don't have all the answers in an ongoing crisis. I am at least not able to know them, but I remember the spring part, when the representative Myrseth's party pressed to open up more on both the one and the other. How would it have been then, if not the government had resisted just this? Then the infection had really blossomed. Of course, there's no surprise that there could be a step 2 – and that might well come a step 3. None of us know. I don't know at least, and I don't think the representative Myrseth knows that either, but there may be something like that in the Workers' Party that makes them know what the future brings anyway. Most of us don't have that sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e540	With all due respect to report, it's a shocking answer. We were all told that it would most likely come a wave number. 2, and most likely there may be a wave number. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Minister of Health has also said that. But you have to listen to the facts that are on the table, and what is expecting someone to run crisis management is that they have a plan A, a plan B, a plan C, a plan D and a plan E for what to do, and you have to prepare for the new waves in the crisis that is. It's being part of crisis management and taking responsibility. The government hasn't. When you are told that you cannot continue a payment scheme in May, and then you arrive in August, and then the whole scheme expires – and now we are in December, and not a crown has yet been paid out – then it is obvious that someone has failed. It's obvious that someone's going to lose their job, companies are going to end up because of bad government work. Can the representative admit it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e545	I have to say that there is a special entrance to that question from a party that wanted to open up as much as possible in ours. And then it's repeating: of course, things can be done better all the time during a crisis management, because there's no one who knows what the next bump is bringing. We have all registered – it has been cross-political when we have developed the various crisis packages – that it has been a close follow-up also to Stortinget, and then it has been a focus on the pandemic. Now the first vaccination program, which was advertised both yesterday and today this week, begins, and I have to say that I am a bit stunned at a state-supporting party that chooses to completely ignore what was communicated from the same party in ours. But memory is obviously so much, because it obviously takes a few months, what was said earlier is forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e550	Now the representative is being taken in obvious lies from the Grotingens pulpit. The working party has not entered to optimise the opening position. This has been discussed in the media over the past few weeks, and then even the spin doctor of the Right, the new communications manager, has been taken for granted, on Twitter and in various articles, so I would be very careful to continue that line. And the Workers' Party, unlike the Left, is a state-supporting party. Therefore, we would be prepared, we would have prepared new payment schemes, new compensation schemes against the new waves that would come. What's the situation, is that the same companies that could use a little bit of their own funds, or really everything in ours, for what you didn't get paid, don't have that equity anymore, so you take up personal loans because the situation is so critical. So I ask again: did not the representative of Skelstad or the party left know that there could be a wave number. 2, which would require compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e557	I wonder how many times I'm going to answer the exact same question. I have no great faith that the representative Myrseth is hard-heard – I see no need now to repeat what I answered questions 1 and question 2. I am still surprised, however, that the representative Myrseth is unable to admit that there is no one, not even the Christian People's Party, who can predict the future. The government has been rigged, but it is clear that things happen during a crisis, and a crisis management is in continuous follow-up to what is the agenda. I must say I'm surprised if the representative Myrseth doesn't understand about crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e562	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e567	According to the Yellow Book, which contains the main figures for the state budget for 2021, total government expenditure is 1 813 billion. kr. To put it another way, next year the Norwegian State will spend 1,813 billion dollars on public welfare schemes, services and tasks. At the same time, the figures from the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party show that the framework for the conciliation is 18.3 billion. NOK in the change incurred. That's probably exactly 1 pst. of the original total frame. The figures from the Workers' Party's alternative budget show a total re-priorities of 10.8 billion. NOK and increased expenditure on various investments of SEK 34,8 billion. kr. The centre party on its side will re-prioritize 90.9 billion in its alternative budget. kr and increase government expenditure by 26,2 billion. kr. In respect of the alternative budgets of the opposition parties, I would like to pay tribute to reworked documents with a clear policy. Nevertheless, in view of the small percentage of the total budget proposed redispatched or increased, it should be a cross-reference for both the government parties and the opposition that we really agree on the most important thing: Norway is and will remain a model country where large tax revenues finance well-developed public welfare and a wide range of high-quality services for citizens, and where the trust between authorities and the population is strong and stable. In a time of pandemic, increased protectionism and the emergence of national conservative flows that challenge liberal democracy, Norway is a little bit of security, prosperity and stability that people in other parts of the world can only dream of. With the general introductory considerations, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to express satisfaction with the proposed national budget for 2021. Also in the field of nutrition, we find a lot to enjoy. Through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, which, moreover, deserves tribute for a tough but constructive tone during the negotiations, appropriations have been put in place which are very important for the maritime industry. The main point is an increased allocation of a total of 611 million net pay for seafarers. kr. This avoids cuts in the 2021 scheme. In addition, there is agreement to repeal the maximum in the grant model for three of the schemes up to the third semester of 2021. Furthermore, the Government Parties and the Advance Party have agreed to extend the Innovation Norway Scheme for the Condensation of Ships in Short Sea Shipping to Offshore Ships. At the same time, the scheme will be strengthened by 150 million. kr. There is also agreement to extend the building loan guarantee scheme in GIEK to cover advance guarantees. Furthermore, a compensation scheme of 480 million will be put in place. kr for quarantine costs of enterprises that are dependent on contracted non-resident labour. Overall, these measures are a strong signal that the four parties are taking the challenges of the maritime industry most seriously. It is also very gratifying that the government has decided to complete the financing and implementation of the construction of a three-step chain for the capture, transport and storage of CO 2. 25 B.C.E. kr shall be used for the Langskip investment and operation project for the first 10 years, with a start-up grant of SEK 2,3 billion. NOK 2021. I am pleased and proud that the Christian People's Party in government has contributed to the realisation of this project. There will be enormous positive ring-effects for Norwegian industry, and Norway will take leadership in such a way that others will follow in their efforts to achieve climate targets. It was with amazement that we registered the preliminary scepticism of the Advance Party for one of the most ambitious industrial projects after the millennia, and we in the Christian People's Party are therefore pleased that the Progress Party in the Budget Agreement has gone a round with itself and is behind the realization of Longship with a start-up grant in 2021. The government also pursues an agricultural policy that ensures a varied use structure with active farmers in all parts of the country. It is particularly gratifying that the high level of appropriations for veterinary services is continued, while at the same time strengthening the regional presence of the Veterinary Institute, among others. through the completion of a new autopsy room in Tromsø in October of this year. It is important that the Government Parties and the Central Party together point out that, in the future, the Veterinary Institute will have an important role to play in a national bioeconomy effort. Furthermore, it is important for the Christian People's Party to point out that the importance of Norwegian agriculture and forestry for the green shift must be made clear in the forthcoming reports to the Stortinget on the climate and sustainability objectives that the government is working on. It is also underlined in a joint remark by the government parties in the committee position. We also meet the revision of the soil protection targets notified by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food after the objective of the current soil protection strategy has been achieved for the third consecutive year. And when our friends in Norecopa have also this year received their allocation for further operations, without being mentioned in the state budget, but after cross-political agreement in the committee, Christmas is this year too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e590	And it's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e595	In parts of our country where agriculture and forestry are the most important industries, there are also 40 pst. of the working-age population outside the labour force. It is only possible because parts of the working conditions and pay conditions are so poor that you get less paid to work than to be on Nav. 10 pst. of those employed who work in the private sector have fallen into real income under Erna Solberg, and many of these we find just in the green sector. It is also part of our workers who are most affected by far too poor health, environmental and safety standards, and then the Workers' Party is wondering: What is the Christian People's Party, which is responsible for agricultural policy, going to do towards this summer? Will we again see chartered flights from Vietnam in the middle of the pandemic, or will one now take responsibility, as the Storting has asked, to clean up working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e602	I would first of all like to commend the Minister of Agriculture and Food and, to a large extent, the Storting, for finding solutions when the crisis hit agriculture and the green sector very hard in spring. It's solved in a good way. As regards further work on pay and working conditions, I think it is important to have a good dialogue on the important issues between the farmers' organisations and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, perhaps already in the context of the agricultural negotiations for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e609	I have followed the posts of the representative, Mr Reten, in this Chamber for a certain period of time, and in recent times the representative has raised the EEA issue on several occasions. For the uninvited: this is how the Christian People's Party and the SV share their views on EU membership. Both SV and the Christian People's Party believe that Norway is the best place to stand outside the EU. So the question is, how are we going to stand outside the EU? The EEA Agreement is an agreement which is specific to the EFTA countries. There is no other country that has copied him. As alternative treatment has shown, other countries have significantly better agreements with the EU than Norway has, for example. South Korea has been pointed to. For this reason, SV has called for us to look at other ways of joining the EU, where we are getting considerably better benefits. That's our position, not to jump from the EEA Agreement, but simply to find a better solution, explore that field. What causes the representative to be absolutely sure that the EEA Agreement is the very best agreement for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e618	We in the Christian People's Party have a very special relationship with the EEA Agreement. When it was negotiated in the early 1990s, there were some parties, among others. SV and the Center Party, who said that we should not have an agreement at all. So there were some games, for example. The right and Labour Party, which considered that the EEA Agreement was only an intermediate road to full membership. And then there was one party that said: No, this agreement is so good that it will serve Norway in the foreseeable future. It was the Christian People's Party, and Kjell Magne Bondevik asserted it with strength. It has been shown that we have been given the right, and we see no reason to renegotiate this agreement. When SV and the Senterpartie e.g. is talking about having a kind of sectoral renegotiation, about negotiating better agreements in individual sectors, it is a utopian. Here we are talking about a counterparty in the negotiations with over 300 million people, a huge market. When we see what experience the United Kingdom has gained in the Brexit negotiations, it is completely incomprehensible to us that that problem is being raised at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e625	In the article by its representative Reiten soil protection, and it is an important topic. It's like the Storting has been heading for soil protection, and then one has reached them. Then there's a set of new targets, and then one has reached them. Even if you have a long way to go, developments have gone in the right direction, and I think you might say that the policy has worked. The current soil protection target expires in 2020. As we learned earlier today, there are twelve days left of 2020. This means that we do not have a soil protection target on 1 January 2021. My question then is: Will the Christian People's Party help us in good time before the Stortinget takes summer vacation, have a new goal of soil protection and a strategy to achieve the goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e632	In any case, it is certain that things have gone ahead since the red-green parties crashed, because we were, as the representative Pollestad probably remembers, in an earlier case, that the then government parties have turned down a proposal from the Christian People's Party in spring 2013 to revise the soil protection requirement to 3,800 targets. It was then set to those degrees that the then government parties would not even attach that protocol, but voted it down, so that the conclusion was ‘not adopted’. The Minister of Agriculture and Food has announced a review of the soil protection target, a revision of the soil protection target. It is also mentioned in the proposition of the State budget. We attend that review, and I hope that we can get it on the table during the spring semester, without my promise. It is with the Department, and I leave those assessments to the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e639	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e644	Norwegian business is hit hard by the pandemic, and the consequences are great. The challenges arise on a continuous basis, and there is a challenging situation. In the phase we're in now, some industries are experiencing growth, while others are struggling and having difficulty seeing that there is light in the tunnel. Over the year, the government has put forward several measures to get people back to work, increase activity in Norwegian business and contribute to long-term value creation in the private sector. Some schemes extend into 2021. A new, wide-ranging compensation scheme will now cover the whole of business and will be reinforced by a change and extension of the level of compensation. In addition, we received a new conversion scheme as a special arrangement for the tour operators and event and event organisers. So the total is now more than 6 billion. kr. Another new scheme is a support scheme for large public open events. Here it's set at 350 million. kr, and in the budget agreement, the number limit was reduced from 500 to 350, so that more will be covered by the scheme. A third new scheme is a compensation scheme intended to help cover the costs of the admission quarantine. Part of business is entirely dependent on foreign labour, and the government proposes to allocate SEK 480 million. kr to that measure. Despite the fact that we have had to take rapid and short-term action in this difficult time, it is important that we also address the long-term challenges of the Norwegian economy. We must therefore continue to facilitate green and sustainable growth. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries wishes to give priority to measures that provide a basis for future growth and more green jobs. The government proposes to grant 330 million. SEK 2021 for the Green Platform, a three-year project aimed at the renewal of business through research and innovation. It is the Swedish Research Council, Innovation Norway and Siva that manage the scheme and distribute the money to green projects. Furthermore, we are proposing an allocation of 700 million. SEK to Nysnø climate investments. Nysnø has so far been added to $1.7 billion. kr in capital and shall be involved and contribute to the green shift by making profitable and long-term investments. The government proposes more than 9 billion. SEK to industrial research and innovation in order to create new products and services that will contribute to greening, smarter and more innovative business. About $1.7 billion. DKK for industrial research and over 400 million. kr for marine research is proposed to the Research Council. This means strengthening the basic funding of the technical and industrial institutes by 50 million. kr and the continuation of the Green Platform. The government is proposing a total of 827 million. to Horizon Europe, the EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation. It is also proposed to continue Norwegian participation in the EU space programme. The payment in 2021 is estimated at 268.2 million. kr. In addition, the government is proposing $98 million. kr annually to national administrative and technical follow-up in order to give Norway maximum benefit from these programmes. The announcement ‘Greener and smarter – tomorrow’s maritime industry’ was submitted on 4 December. The overall objective of the Communication is to facilitate the maintenance by Norwegian maritime industry of its international competitiveness and ability to create value and employment throughout the country. The Government will pursue a maritime policy that provides a good overall framework for maritime industry, with particular emphasis on promoting the development of climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping, the digitisation of the maritime sector and Norwegian maritime competence. In addition, under the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the government is proposing to continue the phase-in system of low- and zero-emission fastboat technology in county with a framework for new commitments of 80 million. NOK, and we're proposing $25 million. for the continuation of the work of the Green Shipbuilding Programme on the green fleet renewal of cargo ships by public-private cooperation. The Government proposes to continue the daily food effort of the Competition Authority of 8.5 million. NOK 2021. This means that the Competition Authority can maintain the reinforced enforcement of the Competition Act, increase market surveillance and assess several measures that could contribute to more competition in the food chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e670	There is no doubt that we are in a deeply serious situation. 200,000 people meet Christmas without work. One in seven companies is afraid of bankruptcy, seven out of ten serving companies are planning to quit people. There is no doubt that the crisis understanding of the government and what it has been prepared to do according to the situation we are in has not met well enough. The conclusion is very clear on that. What is now sought out of business, out of the workforce, is about the predictability of the continuation. Can the government now guarantee that it will be more predictable than this harvest has been marked by? It's a pretty important question to get an answer to. When we know that the leave period for many of those who were licensed in March will soon expire, and that the scheme established for businesses will soon cease, can we now get a guarantee from the government that the measures taken to secure people and businesses will continue as long as the pandemic is over us?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e680	If there's one thing that's definitely under a pandemic, it's that the situation is unpredictable. There are no guarantees that can be given, because we don't know what the situation is. We know that there is now a vaccine on the way. We know that we can now start the vaccination of the population before the New Year and continue in the New Year, but we have to be prepared for things to go out on time, we have to be prepared for things to change. That is why we are now rigging a compensation scheme that should be able to handle it. It shall be capable of being taken up, and it shall be capable of being brought down, and the Government is prepared to contribute to the industries that will wear out beyond February 2021, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e685	If there's something that's really needed now, it's giving guarantees -- guarantees that people should be able to enter Christmas in a safe way, with certainty that if you've been on leave since March, you won't be quit now, in a short time. One should also have a certainty that if a company that is currently struggling very much and perhaps does not have a brighter horizon during March, but perhaps sees the contours of a hot spot during the summer, they should also be assured that they have a state and a support device in the government. But they don't have that, as the Minister of Industry now answers. It is disastrously bad that, with the experience you've had through this harvest, the government is unable to establish greater predictability. So I ask the question again: will the Minister of Industry now give a guarantee or take an initiative internally in the government and come back with something to the Storting that will ensure predictability for people who are now on leave, and for companies that need compensation beyond what are the agreed timelines from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e692	It is the Stortinge today that adopts the budget for the next year, and there is the framework that lies there. But I can say on behalf of the government that the government is prepared to contribute also beyond what is there. The government is now making arrangements that can last longer if needed, and we will of course keep up with the business and the arrangements we have – how they make, whether they need to be extended, and whether they need to be changed or adjusted. I disagree with the reality description the representative uses. I don't think the government has done everything perfectly, but I think it's too early to conclude, because we're still in a crisis, we're still totally dependent on working with business, working with the social partners, having a dialogue about what's necessary. That's why we're putting in place a new compensation scheme. That's why we've changed the regulatory framework around the loan scheme to make it easier to provide government-guaranteed loans. That is why we have postponed the payment of taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e705	There is no certainty that the government will follow along. They also said that they should keep up with them throughout the summer, but we ended up in a situation where one can't pay off badly-encumbered liquidity to companies that are struggling to pay their bills right now. So it follows-with-satisfaction gives no security. It should be very easy to say that you set up for ordinary people who are on leave, and that you set up companies that are in a deep, serious crisis for as long as the pandemic lasts. Let's do the finals. I can't believe the government can't say that. That's what the industry and the parties are asking for. If there's any NHO alerts now, there's a need for greater predictability than the government has put it up to, and the majority of these people are accepting it here today. The LO manager was out and said, "Don't stop when you've run almost a marathon." Don't stop when there's one mile left. But that's exactly what the government is doing. I would therefore like an answer as to why one cannot say that the financial measures... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e712	This government is setting up. This stuff is setting up. We've spent over 100 billion dollars. kr below this pandemic just to mitigate the difficult situation for people and for business. We're lucky in Norway because we've been relatively flattered by the worst rashes of the pandemic so far. So far, we've also been flattered by the very worst results in the economy, even though we have great challenges both with unemployment rates and with a dip in the economy that we haven't seen in recent times. But this government is setting up. This government also says that we are prepared to continue the arrangements, adjust the arrangements, do more for those industries that are going to labor further, too. What we're doing now is we're making a compensation scheme that, unlike the previous one, can actually last as long as this big business and this government want it to last. It is robust and can be picked up and down. That's the point of the new scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e717	The progress party has worked well with the government to help us have an up-to-date travel industry even after the pandemic. We have some challenges for package tour operators, and we were put in place proposals for action in a partial agreement with the state budget for 2021 to ask the government to consider proposals for action, for example. through a scheme under the auspices of GIEK, in order to contribute to the functioning of the guarantee market for package tour operators in 2021. Can the Council of State inform us a little about when to expect to have such a system in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e724	First, I would like to say that I agree with the representative that it has been a good cooperation. One of the things that has been discussed here is the so-called net pay scheme, where the government proposed to do the same thing as the red-green government did, just to have a thank-you for the scheme. So we suggested what was before this government took over, but there we've got a good deal, I say. With regard to the package tour operators and the challenges they face, we see that some of them have challenges in getting guarantees of continued participation in the Travel Guarantee Fund. This is due, inter alia, to: one of those policyholders has withdrawn from the market. We are now considering different measures. One of the measures is a scheme through GIEK. We have not yet concluded, but I can assure the representative that the department at my place is working on various measures to remedy the situation for those who do not receive guarantees to continue with the pay gap in the Travel Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e731	We were done with the support buttons from the support party. I want to ask about aviation. This crisis is serious for Objection, he is serious for SAS, and he is serious for Norwegian. So it's like everyone else in the business has got a compensation scheme. They have been covered for expenses or losses. It doesn't have our airlines. When one knows that aviation industries employ very many thousands of people, and that industry otherwise depends on us having a functioning aviation industry, is my question: what time can we expect an aviation compensation scheme to be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e740	Now I'm going to be a little careful so I don't go into the area with the Minister of Transport, who's the main responsibility for aviation and any compensation schemes that have to come there. But I want to correct the impression the representative gives here, because society and the community have really set up also for the airlines in this period. First of all, we spent a lot of money on our route purchase. At one point, onions was the largest airline in Europe on the number of flights because the state is setting up and buying routes. Secondly, they have benefited greatly from the legislation on permitting, which has meant that the State has taken a large part of the costs that the airlines also had. Then we have the But aviation too will face challenges in the future, and we also consider other measures for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e749	On Wednesday, Boreal received a sailing discount from the Maritime Directorate after serious deviations in their security arrangements. It also appears that they were already alerted on 27 November, and on the same night as they received a sailing licence, government councils for both fishing, industry and transport were present. It is the Minister of Industry who has this responsibility. This is a dramatic situation. There are small and large communities that suddenly become isolated. I've got a picture of people waiting in line on the ferry rental and I don't know what's going on, people who don't get to work, the food industry that's suddenly lost their lifeline, etc., etc. Luckily, they got a clear signal to get started again, after they put forward a plan for how to fix this, but there is a lot of doubt in this case. What's happened? Can people now be safe? Then the question to the Council of State: can the Council of State now guarantee that the security is preserved after they have been relaunched?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e759	This is a matter that is handled and still handled by the Maritime Directorate. Safety at sea is a high priority. Of course, it's important to focus on it all the way. It's true, as was said, that we had a meeting with the Maritime Directorate that evening, and that was precisely because of the situation the representative describes. This happened abruptly, this was dramatic for large and small communities along our entire coast. Of course, we needed information: what has happened? What's the time horizon of this? We needed to know if it was necessary to introduce further or other measures for a period to come. I would therefore like to say that we had a good meeting with the Maritime Directorate, where we were also told that they were waiting for a report or a note from the DNV GL, which was rented by Boreal. It is the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs that has assessed, and this is the way in which an interim sailing authorisation is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e766	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e771	This year I had the pleasure of awarding this year's young farmer to the climate-conscious potato farmers Dina Fonn Setre and Henning Andreas Holand from Engelsøya in Nordland. This couple show a glowing commitment to their farm, a great willingness to go new ways, and they are working to make agriculture an even more sustainable industry. They sell e.g. small potatoes such as delicacies instead of throwing them away. It gives little food waste and is good use of resources. Norwegian agriculture is present throughout the country with small and large consumption. Agriculture is part of our identity, and everywhere in Norway, the government's agricultural policy is for those like Dina and Henning. Good plant health and good animal health provide good public health. Agriculture has done relatively well through the pandemic we're in the middle of. The supply chains have proved robust. Agriculture has responded and delivered well in a demanding time. In 2020, grain area increased again, with 66 000 dekers, and more uses are now producing vegetables and fruit. Over 80 pst. of the Ministry's budget relate to the commercial agreements in the field of reindeer management and agriculture. The clean-up contract prioritizes those whose main activity is reindeer operations. The welfare is strengthened, and we are increasing the reindeer deduction to the same level as for agriculture. In the last two years, the framework for the grubbing-up agreement has increased by no less than 21 pst. In a period of considerable uncertainty in Norwegian business, it was important that we set up an agricultural agreement this spring. It has provided predictability for Norwegian farmers and helps secure our food production. A great deal of thanks to the Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams for their good cooperation in finding solutions in a difficult time. The agricultural agreement amounts to 350 million. kr in increased budget support. We also make clear priorities in this year's agreement: strengthening rural agriculture, increasing self-sufficiency, focusing on cereals, fruit and vegetables, and strengthening the commitment to climate action. The government also proposes 188 million. kr for buying-in of milk quotas when the export aid to Jarlsberg falls away, so that not the full cost of the scale-down must be borne by the farmers themselves. Sustainable and proper use of our land is crucial for maintaining active agriculture and forestry and active reforestation. Good professional basis is a key to making good decisions. For this reason, the government proposes to strengthen the Directorate-General for Agriculture's professional work on land use, with themes such as: climate, environment and predatory wildlife. The business life of the future is green, smart, innovative and knowledge-based. In the agricultural and food fields, the government proposes to spend over 1 billion. kr for research and knowledge development. The forest is essential to succeed in the climate struggle. The forest contributes to the absorption of CO 2 and with raw material that can replace many different climate-damaging and oil-based products. Therefore, the government proposes increased appropriations for climate action in forests to increase carbon uptake through denser planting and increased forest fertilisation. The world's climate is changing. We need to combat climate change, and we need to adapt agriculture to tackle a new climate that is getting warmer and wetter. That's why the green shift is extremely important for the government, for me and for all of us. Just as Dina Fonn Setre and Henning Andreas Holand from Engelsøya in Nordland are working to make agriculture an even more sustainable industry, so this government is serious about the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e802	In my reply to the representative, Mr Reiten, who is a party colleague of the Minister for Agriculture, I took up the serious situation of the working conditions of our workers in agriculture and in the green sector. In our opinion, the Stortinget decided unanimously that we should provide enough labour for this important part of the country’s preparedness, and it was clear from the decision that an orderly pay and working conditions were required. Over the summer we saw that this is obviously not the case. The representative, Mr Reiten, has now opened the way for work to be done in this important area of agriculture. That's good. But the following questions remain, because this is also about insuring us against a possible third wave of infection: Will the Minister of Agriculture immediately take action to ensure that we have recruited enough people when the spring comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e809	As the Council of State, I have already met with the parties in the spring and summer of 2021. I have met with the green industry and the farmers' organisations, but also the trade unions that are behind it, because it is the negotiations between the parties that apply. I am concerned that we should secure labour into 2021. The situation in 2020 was that we extended the periods for those who were already here to be here longer. Now they cancel out. One has to make sure the regular agreements that people can be here as seasonal workers. They come in, but with some challenges. There are still problems with air traffic and borders that are closed. Therefore, according to what we met, the industry must also do what they can to secure employment with Norwegian working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e814	In addition to having problems with infection in the last year, it is a development in our society in general — to an even greater extent in the economic crisis — that many thousands of young people are out of work. Youth unemployment is strong and high. At the same time, we saw this summer that flights from Vietnam were chartered with low-paid strawberry pickers. I will challenge the Minister of Agriculture on the following: How does the Council of State think that this affects the Norwegian economy as a whole, that underpaid seasonal workers are flown in while so many young people are unemployed? Would it not have been better to start a massive scheme now, at the beginning of 2021, to recruit unemployed young people to contribute and secure the Norwegian food supply in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e821	It was not the Norwegian state that sent aircraft and picked workers from third countries, it was employers themselves. It is still the case that neither Norwegian gardeners nor Norwegian farmers are State employees. They are private and have done what they have thought has been right. I have been concerned that one should facilitate and take responsibility for those who come here. One must also ensure the pay terms and conditions negotiated between the parties – it should be just a lack. As I said, I have had meetings – and will still have meetings – with the industry to use Norwegian workers. We did something about unemployment benefits for those who are unemployed, and we also asked the farmers to use youth. But one also needs a certain competence. It's not just going into a field. One must have competence. We also arranged for funds to be used to increase the competence of Norwegian youth in order to use them in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e828	The Norwegian population is constantly among those in the world with best health, so it is clear that people living in our country can pick berries in a field. It's going to be really good. It was the right-wing government that deliberately opened up the possibility of chartering flights from Vietnam, so it is not possible to assume responsibility for those who have used that opportunity the right-wing government has given them. Similarly, the right-wing government was persuaded by lobbyists from the NHO to open up imported labour to the yards, which in turn led to a high level of import infection. All of this is a tremendous loss for the Norwegian economy. Think of all those who run restaurants, cafes and travel businesses that are directly affected by the import centre. One's bread has become the death of many. Does the Minister of Agriculture not see that this is a completely wrong economic way of ruling a country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e837	Firstly, I have to tell the representative that those who came from third countries into Norwegian agriculture are a small percentage. Most seasonal workers come from the European Union and the EEA. That is the basis for this debate. I'm just as concerned with infection and spread of infection as the representative is. This means that agriculture took that responsibility, quarantined people, and took every precaution to ensure that one would not spread infection. In terms of working conditions, I am also concerned that, by extending contracts, foreign labour will not push out Norwegian or other workers because they are cheap labour. One must ensure that we have regulations that respect employees at all times but also provide opportunities when needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e846	Following the notification of agriculture in 2016, the four bourgeois parties were aware of several steps in market regulation in agriculture. One of them was a dual reception obligation for the industry to actively ensure that there was effective competition in the food industry, and not least to ensure that those in charge of market regulation have all the intention to do so as far as possible, on the basis that they can actually risk that all goods end up in their warehouses. There is an effective way to ensure that saving does not accumulate. This double reception obligation has been cancelled by the Council of State on 25 November this year, despite the fact that no form of consultation has been carried out with those of us who were involved and made that decision. How have the State Councils planned to get this through in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e852	We had the framework regulation out at the hearing, the representative knows that very well. In that hearing, we took over a lot of what was put on the table. We were concerned about another thing that also stood on the Granavolden platform, on which the representative's party was involved, namely an agricultural industry all over the country. If you are to have an agricultural policy all over the country, you must also have slaughterhouses and dairies that are accepted throughout the country. This meant that we chose to give priority to having an agricultural policy across the country and to base the framework regulation on it, and that is why the decision was taken on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e857	Now I was in a very good mood, because now I was reminded that the one little tab that former Minister of Agriculture, Jon Georg Dale, got through in agricultural policy, is not going to be anything, simply the double obligation of reception. I can assure the Council of State that if she needs several figures in the Stortinget for this, the Centre Party – I believe the Labour Party and the rest of the opposition – will, of course, set up and give the necessary multiple figures for it. But I want to go back a little bit to what I had a line to the representative Reten about, that is, soil protection. Now it's almost 2021, and then we'll stand without a soil protection target. It has been that we see soil protection targets, and then we work to reach them. Then my question is: does the Council of State intend to present its proposal for a new goal of soil protection before Easter, so that we can deal with it well before summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e864	I think I and the representative Pollestad have a common commitment to soil protection. The difference between us is that my party actually presented a proposal that was adopted, while the representative would not adopt soil protection targets in 2013. When you see the value of having soil protection targets, that you actually add them and fill them, you get results. That's why I want to look both at reducing deacons in a new strategy while also looking at arable land. I want to deliver this as soon as possible, and we are doing that job. I bet it should be possible to deal with it for the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e871	I want to get back to this with seasonal work, because the situation we get into on several occasions this summer is totally unsustainable. The most extreme thing is the charter plane from Austen that came to Norway with workers who were about on the labour camp, which, of course, everyone here, I suppose, seems completely unacceptable. But the situation we're in now, it's a contagion situation, throws light on a very great possibility we have. There are many young people who could thwart and be used in seasonal work. The answer the council once gave here, I thought I was a little forward-looking. In cooperation with trade unions, with the social partners, it would be quite possible to lay down a structure and a course which extended into tripartite cooperation in wage making, but also in agricultural policy, where a whole new framework could open up for Norwegian labour to a much greater degree of seasonal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e876	To be quite clear, I fully agree that the main principle is that Norwegian employers should use Norwegian labour as far as possible, or also labour within the EEA area, for which we have agreements. I have taken this which happened this year, in the greatest seriousness. I have therefore already met with the parties, had a meeting with the Gartner Association, with the Green Industry, with the Bond Team, with the Bond and Small User Team and with the NHO, just to ensure that we come into a situation that is different to the next year. As far as I can see, we'll let the usual rules for which ASD is responsible apply until next year. We have had an opportunity to change as far as we can. It is nevertheless difficult to see into 2021, but I will do what is in my power to use the most Norwegian labour force possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e886	Fisheries and seafood are very important for Norway and very important for the coast, and it has proven itself quite well through the coronary apathy. The government has high ambitions when it comes to a? Fa? Speed it up? development of new industries and ensuring more activity along the coast. The seafood industry is profitable. It consists mainly of large and small? family farms along the coast wishing to a? further develop their enterprises and communities. About every fish pond is a family farm. A profitable diet is also the best starting point for a? create even more important coastal jobs. Only profitable jobs are permanent jobs. The government works for a? ensure predictability and competitiveness of the industry so that growth can continue. For these family businesses, is it also? important that the government reduces the punishment/discrimination of Norwegian ownership by a? increase the discount? taxes on wealth? working capital. This means that instead these family businesses can invest more in the development of their own business and create new jobs. The sea is probably the largest and most important dish. We have to? continue job with a? Take care of it? the renewable resources in the sea. Norway is a small country, and we're dependent on a? co-operate with other countries, inter alia: For a? safe fish and seafood from Norway on the market? Competitive who?r. Good market access through the EEA Agreement ensures thousands of export-oriented jobs along the coast. So the government is constantly working for a? ensuring and improving Norwegian market access. Only in North Norway it is approx. 15 000 people who work in the fisheries and maritime food industry and are completely dependent on good market access. Illegal fishing and placing on the market threatens it blah? the future and undermine the sustainable management of marine resources. We need better and smarter control efforts. The government therefore proposes a? increase the fishing control allocation by 42 million. NOK 2021, which would give room for a? develop new digital documentation solutions, which are at the heart of smarter resource control. The public already uses a lot of pa? resource control through e.g. The Fisheries Directorate and the Coast Guard. The government believes it is right that the new investment is paid by the industry itself, because the industry itself also? Is it going to get the gain will be achieved by enhanced resource control. The government also continues the reinsurance scheme in GIEK, which ensures companies in Norway against losses when selling? credit to the rest of the world. The scheme is very important for the seafood industry. The government has also invested significantly in the last few years? marine research through the Marine Research Institute, Nofima and the Research Council, with a total of 2.3 billion. NOK in proposed appropriations next year. We'll see about that, too? that the investment in FOU creates new opportunities. For example, new freezing technologies, perhaps in combination with growing cod farming, can provide new opportunities for stable access to them? chemical substances for the agricultural industry. The spectral machine developed by Nofima, Maritech and NEO, paints and documents quality pa? fish and can help to increase the value of the fish? The raw material. Government rate also? Dad? development of new fish feed. Access to? more fish feed of good quality is perhaps the most important success factor for a? succeeds in a? Fa? further increased production in the aquaculture industry. The government also proposes the launch of a pilot project for the co-location of the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate in a new construction in Bergen. It could facilitate new knowledge development and management for sustainable growth in the marine sector. The government is also proposing $13 million. kr to Coastwatch, under the direction of the Marine Research Institute, to better monitor the coast against, for example. toxic algae and knowledge essential for coastal cod management. The fishing and seafood industry has an incredible potential for Norway, and the government is grasping the opportunities that exist, for a? ensuring profitability and sustainability. The industry has grown rapidly and is among the main industries of the future for Norway. The future, it's right outside of the long-distance coast, and it's about creating more and including more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e925	I have discussed fisheries control with the Minister for Fisheries several times in the past. I know that the minister is also concerned, and he has stated up to several times that the work should be started. It's been over a year since we got a NOW on future fisheries control. The Labour Party has called for this as a matter for Stortinget, so that you can get an overview of what is to be done, and what is the government's plan. On 21 October we had a round in the Questionnaire where I asked for these measures. There were not so many answers, but the next day, October 22, one could read in the Fisheries Bulletin that the Minister for Fisheries would present four work packages and an overall plan for the harvest, so that work could be started. I have not heard anything more since then, but I wonder, where are these four work packages?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e930	We come in mid-January, probably in Tromsø, to present the follow-up to the 92 proposals of the Resource Control Committee. As I mentioned in my post, we have many hundreds of thousands of landings of fish in Norway today, and we have not succeeded in getting full overview and control through physical checks – we only control approx. between half and one per cent of all landings. We think it is important, and it is also in line with the committee's proposal, not to do more of what has not worked. We need to work smarter and better and use new technology to obtain documentation to demonstrate that there may have been infringements. It's the right and best way to go, and we're going to launch the proposals about. mid-January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e939	I did not ask what to do in January. We had an important discussion here in October. Then there was a question of whether one should not get a complete case, which the Labour Party also has proposals in the budget, to the Stortinget. I think it is important for us to get the cross-political consensus that it is fully possible to achieve at this important point. Why couldn't you do it together? The answer from the Minister for Fisheries has been that this should not go via Stortinget. You should do it much more efficiently and faster, and you can do that if you avoid the Storting. Then the Minister replied that four work packages were to be submitted this autumn. I expect that when he said that, the packages were reasonably clear, since we were already almost in November. In Oslo it may be autumn then, but where both I and the Minister for Fisheries come from, it is winter. My question is, where are these four work packages, and why aren't they submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e947	I feel that I answered the question in the previous round, but I can say it again: We have no intention of avoiding Stortinget, on the contrary, but we follow up the recommendations of the Fisheries Control Committee and would like to have it presented just before the end of the year, but there will be a few weeks over the new year, approximately. mid-January. What I experience and see in the comments is that the Workers' Party stresses that they are for us to have better resource control. I record that it has been announced that a vote will be taken against the proposal for a levy, which means that we will not receive funding for the work if it is to be given a majority. It's a reality that if we can get started faster, it's an advantage, because it's a work that's going to take many years. It is important to get started with the first step on the road, which is what we are going to publish in the middle of January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e954	The difference between the Labour Party and the Government is that we want to work more holistically. This is a huge and complex work, and it's a big challenge. We know that when we talk to the fishermen along the coast, the organizations and the industry. Getting rid of the illegalities in the fishing industry is extremely important. Therefore, a matter should have been raised a long time ago about this. I think that the government parties should be able to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's rather modest proposal to put in place such an overall work. We now know that in the case of king crabs, for example. – there was one thing in the fishing magazine yesterday, I guess – we export 30 pst. more than what you have quota for. It shows us a little bit how big a problem we have. My last question to the Minister for Fisheries is this: Can the Minister for Fisheries recommend that the Government parties vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal? After all, it's Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e961	I would like to say to the representative Myrseth that we have had a NOU work that has gone through the issues thoroughly. I feel that there is a broad consensus, or that everyone agrees, that we must overcome the illegalities that are taking place. The aim is to follow up the thorough investigation carried out by the Resource Control Committee. I think it is important to get started, and that is why we intend to implement most of the proposals from the sample through completely sensible and important measures. It's about better documentation and the use of new technologies. It is also about the fact that the industry itself needs to change its attitude, and it is about increasing the value creation along the coast and getting rid of the illegalities that are taking place. The vast majority of people run seriously, and that's who we're going to back up. It's also about the country industry doing better than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e966	I will follow up on what concerns proposal No. 16, which was wrongly referred to as a proposal from the Workers' Party, but which is a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. If it told the government that it could not be supported, because one did not have an impact. But this is a framework-independent proposal, and regardless of our disagreement on funding, it will be possible to anchor the future control of fisheries in the Storting. I think that the fishing control is interventional and dependent on aid. How, then, can we guarantee legitimacy and support for fisheries control? Well, I think putting it on for the Storting will be a good order. So my question, when the Council of State knows that even if we disagree on the form of funding – someone will take it over the state budget, someone will take it over the levy – it is still possible to support proposal No. 16, is now: Is the Council of State a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e973	We have made a proposal that the new control work should be financed by a levy on industry. The fishing industry is profitable. Last night we could read that the average operating distance of the fishing fleet last year was 21 pst. That's pretty good. In other areas too, it is common for the industry to pay for control activities itself. The public already has quite significant expenditure on control activities through some inspection vessels in the Directorate of Fisheries, the analysis unit in Vardø and the work done by the Coast Guard. So we think it's natural that the industry itself is involved and pays for part of the control work that is now to be developed, because the industry itself also gains the prize when we succeed in getting better control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e980	Now the state council used its entire answer to what I didn't ask for, that's the funding. I accept that the Government Party and the Advance Party want to use the fee. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose to take this over the State budget. I don't agree. But that's not what I'm asking. I ask: does the Council of State see that one will have more legitimacy behind the fisheries control if one takes this to the Storting, if one makes sure that it is the Storting that takes a decision on the means and measures to be taken to get legal and good conditions in the fishing industry? That is the proposal No. 16 is about, and I'm very surprised that the government party and the Progress Party don't want to support it. So my question is again: does the Council not see that it will be an advantage to anchor the future fisheries control in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e987	If it's wanted for Stortinget, we'll come here with the proposals. But when we put forward what we intend to submit in January, I doubt that there will be any special disagreement in the Storting about it. This I think is things that will be widely agreed on. But if the Storting wants us to come back with those measures, we'll deal with that. For the time being, I intend to implement what is recommended by the Fisheries Control Committee and get started as soon as possible. If Stortinget wants anything else, I will deal with it. But I think we're going to put forward important, correct and good measures as a first step on the way to a long journey that it's important to get the right direction, namely to use new technology to get more evidence of illegalities going on than we've done with the tools we've used so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e994	I'm going to build a bridge between the National Audit Office's report and Brexit, the negotiations we have with the United Kingdom on a fisheries agreement. As we think, the understanding that the Ministry had of the intention that Stortinget laid down in the Marine Resource Act is wrong. The Councils of State have inter alia: to the effect that the fisheries policy must, as a whole, make a contribution to the fisheries sector's regional repercussions which are greater than would have been achieved without such a fisheries policy. A consensual gamble has said that this is not in line with the intentions of the Stortinget, and has asked the Council of State to come back with a policy that is more in line with that, where a greater extent facilitates coastal communities. That's especially the smallest fleet one that points to. Then we have Brexit negotiations, or the British part of our negotiations. Will the burden-sharing on the Norwegian side be such that one screens the traditional Norwegian coastal fleet when the burden-sharing has been done with the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1001	In fact, it is a little difficult to answer such a question when negotiations take place. However, on a slightly more principleal basis, it is important to say that, over the last 40–50 years, before 1977, there has been a wild-west fishing that has taken place freely and that has gone beyond the Norwegian coastal fleet in particular. Getting the Svalbard Treaty and the conditions in place has brought things into more order. Norway has then become part of the EU-United Kingdom divorce settlement. We don't want to get into any direct shot line in what's going on there. But there are negotiation processes, and our starting point is to get the best possible solution for Norway. With regard to the distribution between different ship groups, there is more of a question of how we allocate our resources internally in Norway between the different ship groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1006	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1011	I usually don't attend the nutrition committee's budget debate, but today I am because there's a loose proposal in the room that's in my constitutional area, that's about predatory game management. On 4 December, we had a debate in this room, and an important decision was made to open up the search for a license for wolf in an area outside the Wolfesona north of Rendalen. I'm following that decision. But I don't understand that during that debate and in that decision it was that the majority in the Stortinget wanted us to trap the genetically valuable wolf in the Deisjö Revirate. There was quite a suggestion from the Center Party to have hunted for that couple, but there was no even raising votes. The loose proposal that is now being put forward can hardly be interpreted in any other way than the fact that the genetically valuable wolf that is there is actually being killed. In view of the serious inbreeding situation, it would be very unfortunate for the South Scandinavian population if that were to happen. The importance of taking care of genetically valuable wolves has been emphasized many times before and by the Storting. Also, the news about wolves in 2016, which provided the basis for a consensus in Stortinget, and which is the policy we are following today, communicates it very clearly. That agreement was also underlined in a decision of the same day, 4 December, on which the parties voted for it to remain firm and to be governed. This is also an important part of the predatory game deal. The reason why the bulk of the population has been aware of the fact that a non-joint genetically valuable individual is simply that if one does not get even introduction of new genetics into the wolf population, it will have major problems in being viable with today's goals. Therefore, Stortinget has been busy with it, and therefore I am also busy with it. I have done everything in my power to follow up the decision of Stortinget. I have decided that the wolf couple in the Deisjö Revir should be moved from the surrounding area, and I have taken a decision that, as soon as it is done, it should be opened for the licensing of the wolf in the area concerned, all the way to the border of the wolf son. Last night I decided to open up the license agreement in about 30 pst. of the area which the predators originally set up as the screens for hunting in the area in question. All decisions are made. Everything that can be done politically is done. What cannot be done politically is to control the value. Why is that important? Well, to be shut down by catching in and moving the wolf must be the preconstruction and the snow and weather conditions are good. It is important to ensure that it is reasonably possible to trace the wolf at all, but of course it is also a question of e.g.: the safety of those to fly with helicopters. What we're talking about here is a very demanding work where one has to fly by helicopter after the wolf in speed near the ground in areas of forest, valley, etc. It is a work that should not be done when there is fog, under-cooled rain, risk of icing. Conditions must allow one to do so in practice on the ground. The seven days that passed between Stortinget's decision and the deadline that was seen, it was not such a situation, but I hope, of course, that it will be as soon as possible. The state's nature oversight is in the area. They have made a lot of efforts in the hope that it will be possible to make a test, and they will continue to do so. That wolf couple I have agreed to move. It shall take place and shall be opened for licence hunting in the area immediately thereafter. I would like to add that when there is now a proposal, it is of course understood that one of the things I think I am not doing here is the job I am going to do in complying with the decision to deposit. I want to say that I am not interested in it at all. First of all, I understand how many people are in the storeroom on this issue. Of course, it should be understood and complied with by all government councils. Secondly, the longer we wait to move, the less likely this wolf couple is to actually get nausea in winter. That's the whole point of taking care of genetically valuable wolves, that's exactly what's going to happen. The longer time goes, the less likely a person to close with it. For this reason, I have every interest in – and the Stortinget should also have – that this is carried out as quickly as possible, both so that one can take care of the individuals the Stortinget wants to take care of, and so that one can open up the license hunt in the area in question, as the Stortinget wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1033	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1038	In terms of trust in the management of our predators, not least in view of the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy on the management of our predators, I think we fully agree that it is absolutely essential that the administration follow up those decisions firmly and decisively, and that there is no doubt about it. If not, there is such a doubt about the possibility of maintaining the two-part objective. It is therefore important for the Workers' Party to clarify that it is absolutely essential that the Storting decision of 4 December be followed up. We understand that poor aviation weather is something the Council of State cannot do, but I still need a very clear assurance that the Council of State will guarantee that that work will be resumed as soon as the flight weather permits, and that the work is ongoing without delay until the wolf is moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1043	I can absolutely guarantee that. We have people in the area, and they're going to be there in the future to make sure that as soon as it's possible to clean up weather, prep, a set of moves is going to start. At the time Stortinget made its decision, I remember that there was not even enough track snow in the area. Luckily, it came by the end of the day. It gave hope to a quick move. When one was ready to do it, with the use of helicopters, it was unfortunately so that weather conditions did not allow it. But helicopter's on standby. The State's nature oversight is in readiness. They're in the area, and they're ready to carry out the movement as soon as the weather and traffic conditions allow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1048	Thanks for the answer. There is an important guarantee that is provided. I will also be assured that the work is done without delay, and that one does so now, continuously, until the individuals to be taken out have been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1053	Yes, I can assure you. Our people are going to be there and ready. They're going to be in this territory in the future, even on those days when hopefully we'll have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas with our families and everything that belongs to it, so that you can make sure you move as quickly as you can. I want to remind you again that it is also in everyone's interest that this is exactly what will happen. I hope and believe that it will be possible to carry out as quickly as possible, in line with what the Storting has agreed, and what the Storing has asked for. Of course, I follow it as the responsible state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1058	I want to start by saying that I disagree with the Council of State that he has a back cover for that situation, in the light that both the Labour Party and the Center Party, together with the Government Party, voted for the Workers' Party's proposal No. 1st last. It was demanding, and therefore the Progress Party did not do it. But it's challenging that trust in government is now being put to the test, because people feel that there's a distance between decision making and what's actually happening on the ground. But I'm glad that the Council of State has guaranteed that these are now standing if necessary through Christmas, and that the move takes place so quickly the weather allows it. But there are two relationships to which it is necessary that one clarify. The only thing is that, in the moment they have moved, it is immediately opened for hunting. And the second is whether the state council can ensure that the wolf gets GPS markings, so that one has control, and that he is not allowed to re-establish himself in the area he is now being moved from.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1065	Let me start by saying that trust in the game management is entirely decisive, because here is one in an area where there are strong opinions and important interests involved, and where there has also been a lot of conflict historically – I would say too much conflict. So it's supposed to be trust that predator management follows up all the decisions that I make as the responsible state council, and as the Storting is doing, is very important. I have that trust, and I hope that most people also have it. Whenever there are two questions from the representative: I have made a decision that once these wolves have moved out of the area, it must be opened for hunting. It's quite a decision that's been delegated to the statesmen, but I have every reason to believe that they'll be conscious of their responsibilities. Otherwise, I get the chance to say that a new decision will be taken. The other applies to GPS marking. I've also decided that the wolves we're going to move should also be noticed, so that we can follow them on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1074	I appreciate the assurances about that, but I hope, like the Council of State, that the administration has soon taken the hint. For Stortinget, I believe it is quite decisive that not the county, neither in this area nor in any other area, is now trying to interpret itself away from what the Stortinget has explicitly decided on. But what's challenging about the situation we're in now is that when the wolf might be moved, he'll be moved into an overcrowded wolf zone. Can we expect that the Council of State as quickly as possible, and preferably before Christmas Eve ticks in, has clarified the question of the possibility of the killing of wolves in the Wolfesona, in line with their decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1081	Yes, let me start by saying that we have already opened for the extraction of wolves outside the wolf's son by upholding the decisions that the predators made to take out up to 27 individuals outside the wolf's son. Then there's another decision about killing within the wolf's son. It has been complained to my department, and we have not finished the complaint procedure yet, but we are working on a bomb to clarify the question, what is the basis for putting into practice a licensing agreement within the wolf's son from next year. There was unfortunately a complaint decision one also had last year, which it took a long time to clarify, but it came in at the end of the year. Of course, I have the ambition that we will complete the complaint procedure in my department as soon as possible, so that one can know what is going to be the framework when the hunting begins, if necessary, within the sons from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1086	I have to correct Agent Dale. The centre party did not vote in favour of proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. On 7 December, the Stortinget made a very clear decision. We decided that any extension of the wolf zone should be stopped, we decided that it also applied to buffer zones, and we decided that the existing buffer zone should be repealed from 15 December. That's what I said. All the parties behind that proposal knew that there was no guarantee that a wolf had moved within a week, and they all said, however, that they thought that that zone would be lifted from 15 December onwards. Somewhere the frontier has to go, and it's amazing that the Council of State is able to train such a clear decision. So my question is, how does the Council of State think that the words «repealed from 15 December» can be interpreted? And what wording would have been clearer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1095	The debate and the decision to which this is referred reminds me that was an urgent matter which was not dealt with in committee. An configuration was not written, and there were no case handlers. For that reason, in the debate I was busy knowing what was the purpose of the proposal from the majority that possibly voted for it. Was it so that the plural still stood by avoiding the capture of a genetically valuable individual, as evidenced by the looting game agreement, and as presented by the wolf entities? Was it such that natural disasters etc. must also be grounded here? All that was confirmed during the debate. So I've followed up the decision in the light of it, by yes, we're going to open up the license hunt in this area, but we're also going to do what we can to try to move the two wolves that apply before it happens. I felt that this was what the Storting wanted, and we have of course tried to do it as quickly as possible. But like I said in my post, I can't make a political decision right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1103	In his speech, the Council of State said that it was rare for him to be in the budget debate for the nutrition committee. I hope he comes to the debates more often, not primarily to discuss wolves, but to discuss the climate change that Norway and the rest of the world must undergo. There will be very important efforts in the Norwegian business community to cut emissions, build the country and ensure well-being. A short time ago, the news came that the government is postponing the announced climate announcement after Christmas. There is also another news that the EU is tightening its climate targets to cut emissions by 55 pst. until 2030. So my question is, will the government now make sure that Norway cuts its emissions by 55 pst. towards 2030, and will the coming climate announcement provide us with the recipe for how we will get to this in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1110	Yes, Norway was actually one of the very first countries to strengthen its climate goal. I also felt that we had great support in Stortinget when we delivered to the UN in February that we should cut out our 50-55 pst. by 2030. What's important about that is that that's exactly what we're going to cut. We didn't leave anything there, like that. The EU has undertaken to include forest and land use in this objective. This means that the objective of the EU – unfortunately, I get to add – is in reality slightly lower than 55 pst. But our goal is to reduce emissions by 50-55 pst. by 2030. The climate plan will show you the way. I can agree that it was a pity we didn't get him ready before Christmas. It was definitely ambition, but it has been a fall with much, and this is a work involving almost all departments. But the plan is just around the corner, he's immediately ready, and he'll show us how we're going to keep cutting emissions in Norway in the decades ahead, as we've done in the last few years under this government, and shifting business in the green direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1123	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1130	This is the last day in Stortinget, where we want each other Christmas. I think what should have been the theme of all the issues today is that in Norway in 2020, we have over 200,000 people who are totally or partially out of work. My greeting today goes to you who have lost the job. It goes to you that's licensed, maybe once and twice, and is uncertain if the job goes by 2021. It goes to Tom Rune, a licensed receptorist in Tromsø, one of many in travel life who experiences that uncertainty. It goes to all of them, and it could be 250,000–300,000 of them, who might come to the summer of 2021 and feel that the time that was set off has taken away their holiday money rights. So they're going to experience it in the summer of 2021. These are what we're working for. These are what this will need to take decisions and give the maximum level of security that the Community can provide. I also send a greeting to one of the seven companies that today are uncertain whether they will end up due to the crisis. Then I would say to this government: We were in Stortinget to adopt a compensation scheme in ours. It started in three weeks. In June, the government terminated that scheme, and they knew that a new wave of infection could come in the autumn of 2020. It came, but then there was no order. Governments are talking about a system and are proud of it. The problem is that those who need it today don't have it. I got an enquiry from an enterprise here in Oslo, which is going well, but is shut down by a decision that is made politically. They know that they will get back on track and can manage well, but they will go to debt collection because it will be January/February before the money comes, because the scheme was not ready. I think it is unforgivable and unacceptable. Here the government has squandered time. My greeting is also to the company Better Moments, a travel company on Svalbard – a clear example of one that falls between the chairs of arrangements that have arrived and that are not captured by those arrangements. This is a debate in which extension and new compensation mechanisms are adopted. It's on paper good, but it's not good enough for those who have been licensed, those who are unemployed, those who are licensed and see that the period goes to the end, and that they can lose the job completely. Then the government must be much clearer in saying that it will be present and on the path for those who need it, as long as the pandemic lasts. Here, the government seems to be pulling its legs. They're too late, and it can't go into 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1149	On 4 December, the Stortinget debated a proposal to stop the expansion of the wolf zone in order to protect the so-called Elgang wolf. We know the background: the administration had challenged the Storting's clear definition of where the zone is going. In the big debate on December 4th, I said that because of the temperature of the wolf debate, those who manage Stortinget's decision will be very careful to challenge the decisions made. Sometimes it is the case that the Storting also leaves a large room for interpretation, but there is no large room for interpretation in the case of the wolf zone. And there's no room for interpretation at all in the decision that was made on December 7. It is clear from the outset that the extension of the zone by the administration would be lifted from 15 December onwards. Let's do it. But what do we experience? Well, we're experiencing a state council that challenges Stortinget in the form of letters. It's not the government that's going to mess with interpretations this time. It is the government who comes to grips with interpretations of what has been said in the debate, and in this way tries to distort the insistence of the majority of the population that the temporary extension of the zone should have been lifted on 15 December – a decision that has no room for interpretation. December 15 is in my calendar December 15, it comes once a year, and now we have passed it. But maybe we shouldn't be surprised, because that's quite unusual, what we heard in the big debate on December 4th, that's a government council that openly remedied the presidency of the form of treatment to which a unanimous increase had joined, including the Council of State party. Let me stress to the Council of State that in the Storting the decision is the one that applies, not the Council of State interpretation of what and who has said what in the big debate prior to the decision. In the United Kingdom, decisions are made on both what is referred to in the debate and on any comments. There are decisions that apply, and no letter from the Council of State to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy changes it, nor the fact that the temporary extension of the zone by the administration would have been lifted on 15 December. Since the Council of State is so concerned with what has been said in the debate, it may be tempting to repeat myself here – the decision was taken to close the possibility of interpretation and determine where the wolf zone is, regardless of whether the wolf is outside or inside, genetically important or geneticly not important. The son is the son, it is the clear decision of the Storting. It should be unnecessary for the Storting to clarify its own crystal-clear decision. But because this is rocking by predatory agreement, it is rocking by people's perception of the People's Government, it is important that we today clarify the decision and give an answer to the Council's letter, and I also expect the parties behind this, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party, to conclude on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1164	The working party is the party to ensure that our common Norwegian forests benefit the population. That is why we propose today to stop the sale of Statskog, where the right-hand government is now selling properties and 30 pst. of the areas are left on the hands of limited liability companies or buyers living elsewhere than where the forest is located. Let's go to Engerdal, which is my grandmother's adult municipality. It is the municipality in Norway which has the largest share of State property. 80 pst. in the south of Norway, the gigantic municipality is directly influenced by elections taken politically by the State Forest. Among the people who live locally and who try to create jobs and confidence in the future for new generations, we find Ann-Mari Hagen, who runs Sølenstua camping. For a year and a half, I have tried to bring up with Minister of Agriculture Bollestad the desperate situation Ann-Mari is in when the government overnight triples the party fee for these important local jobs in Engerdal. If someone thought this was going to be a government that reduced charges for local workplaces, it is totally wrong. Money is deliberately transferred from community in Engerdal to the most central parts of the largest cities. Ann-Marie is now in danger of having to lay down because the margins of employment and business in Engerdal are very small. That is why we are promoting another proposal today, that we should ensure that Statskog becomes the tool that can contribute to the future and hope for new generations, and that our common values benefit the people. In the future, state forests, with a red-green government, will help to build sustainable, climate-friendly jobs in the forest industry and facilitate local business, will not be resistors of those trying to build their communities. As with all political tools, they depend on how they are governed. With the right-wing government, the short-term, old-fashioned BI-principles that govern the state forest are, for more and more profit is to be collected on a short-term basis, stretching its legs under what is a sustainable future around our country. This is a serious matter. The Party programme for the Workers' Party shows how state companies are going to contribute to creating confidence in the future, and the people of Engerdal are clear that this is the matter that determines whether it is possible to give hope to our young people. We're going to contribute to that on the red-green side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1179	I will begin as the representative Gahr Støre did, and recall the situation we are in. It's very serious, and most seriously it's for those who are the deepest in it. That is what the debate should be about, and I am surprised that there is so little focus on it from the government and the members of the government parties in the UK today. That's what we've seen in previous debates: it's like you don't want to talk about the challenges, but about what you haven't put on the table. That's actually very important to do. One very important thing to be able to deal with problems is to recognise the problem. You don't want to do that. Being in arrears all the time when it comes to action creates challenges, and it has created many challenges. The answers we get are – yes, now you're on the clock, even the Prime Minister has said – that it's too early to judge, and that you didn't know. With all due respect, that's not true. We have known that this harvest would be a severe harvest. We knew that there would be a wave number two, and we knew that we had to have arrangements in place. The government has not done that job. That job has not been done by the Minister of Industry, when one was told in May that the payment arrangements we had could not be used. We have not yet received an answer as to why. The people that this is about are those who may already have the least secure jobs – part-time, small jobs and low levels of organisation, which, of course, I think is a problem. It is low wages, it is people who are important in their workplaces where integration takes place. They're the ones now wearing gloves, because they're at work, they're not at home. It's Magne, as I've told you before, who almost cannot have the heat on in the room where he has skis and bikes, because he has to save in. He has even raised personal loans since the payment challenges have not been met. One of the finest workers' songs I know about is the "Show of Ellinor". There they say, "Oh, dreams that a judgment gets us to use tea now" more than that to save." I really hope so. Tom Rune and Kristine, both of whom work at hotels in Tromsø, don't know what the New Year is. They do not know what January looks like, because the permitting system has not been extended either, it takes a few months, the permitting system expires in February, then it must have been extended now, and that has not been done. I hope you can get a little more answers to what the government thinks about those people, because that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1192	On 7 December there was a hope in many who have fought against unfair predatory management for many years, and that hope was set on fire by the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party, who managed to gather on a decision that concluded that the expansion of the wolf's son in Rendalen and Stor-Elvdal would be lifted from 15 December. It was a relief for many. And when I listen to the debate today, it sounds like we're unfortunately going to have a new sense of reluctance, because the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are now expressing that moving is okay, that we accept moving, and that our decision from 7 December is therefore postponed indefinitely, because it is the time that now governs whether or not to follow up the Storting's decision. I think it is terribly sad that the government's use of the 'genetically important wolf' as a kind of weapon shield in the debate is now accepted by the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. If that is the case, if it is the case that you intend to vote against the proposal of the Central Party today, I hope that you take the time to read the decisions that the government has made, because it is perfectly appropriate to allow for licensing in the area in which the Deisjön-pair is located, even if they are there, without being contrary to any natural diversity laws. In the decision that was a recast of the original decision of 23 November, the Ministry writes a little about what is needed in order to allow for a licensing agreement. It is that the conditions of the Nature Diversity Act are met, that withdrawals must not threaten the survival of the population, that there are no other satisfactory ways of solving a problem, and that one of the conditions of Section 18 is fulfilled, inter alia. the existence of other public interests which outweigh significantly the disadvantage of extracting wolves. I react to the fact that the ministry in its decision does not make any difference between the interests, such as: The will of the big business, the considerations of district policy, the need for people to have confidence in the follow-up of the decision of the big business, and the dampening of conflict. This is not balanced against the need to care for the genetically important wolf. If you have as your starting point that it is necessary to take care of that wolf, there are some things that make it less important now. One is that there has been a youth in the Lake Box. We've now got a genetically important wolf. The second is that the ministry itself, in another decision, whether to move the wolf or not, concludes that if that wolf dies, it will not be a barrier to survival. So I ask you to seriously consider supporting the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1205	This is a year that we'll never forget. When the country shut down overnight, many were saved, and some sort of unreality came upon many of us. We did not know what effect this pandemic was going to have on Norway. I remember coming home late to Trondelag from Oslo on March 12. I was going to go to the store, and there were actually empty shelves, and then I thought like that: do we also get a food crisis now? Thanks to the Norwegian farmer and the food industry, it didn't. They were well prepared, and in a short time they had doubled the production of many agricultural products. Our food system is robust. Although this crisis has revealed some gaps and weaknesses, it was mainly in areas other than food safety. Overall, Norway has never been better equipped to cope with a crisis of the dimensions we are now experiencing, both economically, economically and in an emergency. The most important thing we can do for food safety is to make sure that more food is produced, and that's what this government has provided. In addition, we have arranged for local storage of grain on farms, and we have strengthened the grain stocks. So the Minister of Agriculture here today also said that we have now done a lot about the reduction in the reduction of cultivated land, and the grain area has increased in the last year by 60,000 dekars. In the last few months, we have had fierce debates on food security. We are very much in agreement, but the symbolism policy of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party around large national food grain stocks is not an accurate measure. We remember this summer that the Center Party asked the Joint Purchase to wait to tear down Stavanger Havnesilo. They would bet on this if they were to win the election – this despite the fact that the joint purchase was ready that it was not a suitable place. I understand that a large, central, national mill full of grain in Stavanger, visible to everyone, is a great symbol of taking food security seriously. But that's exactly what it's going to be: symbol politics. I think the Central Party itself knows that, because it's only a small amount of money they've put into this year's budget to implement this measure. We will work for a systematic development of food safety and safe management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1218	An amazing and a troubled year lies behind us, for the nation, for the businesses and, for people, for others. It's hard times. It looks like Norway is getting better out of the crisis than most others. This is due, inter alia, to: that we had rapid control of the infection, that we have economic muscles, and that we have used them. But the crisis is not over. We're going to use a lot of muscles next year. Therefore, the State budget shall: create more and include more building competence for the future safe Norway The activity level will be low for long. Many encounter an uncertain winter, and too many are still unemployed. We have to go back to where we were before the crisis, with an employment rate going up. The budget we are adopting next year will include: prevent the permanent increase in unemployment due to the pandemic. Before the Korona, we discussed how important it is that we hold back money use, and the challenges that are moving ever closer, that we are becoming less and less active per pensioner, and that oil revenue will gradually decline. I don't think so many in Norway have really taken on board the scale of the challenge we're facing. We're going to have to create more, and we're going to include more. Now, probably, the need for conversion has sunk better in most people, because the need for conversion is now more important than ever. It's about securing our future. To do that, we need to secure growth in private business. Private value creation is the basis for our common well-being. Private business is the best friend in public life. We must avoid a high level of public spending overstepping private capital, and we must prevent the current arrangements from becoming permanent increases in expenditure. The public sector is big enough. We're taking several steps to secure growth. We're putting a lot of lead on research and development. Next year's R & D appropriations are over 45 billion. kr. 9 B.C.E. kr is nutrient-oriented. We have doubled the transport budget since 2013. It facilitates more efficient business and allows growth to occur throughout Norway. We reduce taxes to strengthen businesses and jobs. We are further stepping down the tax on working capital. It makes investing in Norwegian business more attractive. To make it more beneficial to become a partner in our own company, we increase the tax advantage of buying shares. We change the hydro tax and provide the industry with significant liquidity. It facilitates the necessary upgrade of an industry that creates activity in the community. Together, we're reducing taxes and taxes for people and businesses by almost 30 billion. kr for this period of government so far. We are strengthening digitisation. It will continue to simplify and reduce costs for business. This is an offensive and a business-friendly budget, a budget that cuts emissions, and that does not cut development, and a budget to create more and include more. That's what we need now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1255	Norway has been through demanding times, but for a large part of our industry it is not yet over. On the contrary, we see e.g. in large parts of the west coast, a maritime industry that has so far managed to save its stumps through the time required after the fall in oil prices in 2014 and 2015, on the way into new market segments such as cruise, and now that plank is also falling. In the future, it will be demanding for them. For this reason, it has been decisive that in the budget agreement that we have now established with the government, we have taken important and necessary strategic steps to ensure the whole maritime value chain, not only the fleets, but also the seafarers and the yard industry. It is also crucial that the follow-up to the budget agreement ensures that it actually improves the access to liquidity of the yard in the months to come. In addition, there are concerns about how to understand different things about it, but I would like to say very clearly to the government party now: this is not really about political games or different positions – just about securing one of the longest value chains we have in this country. If the shipyard industry goes over the next few years, there is little or no reason to believe that it will be reestablished in Norway. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that we are closed down to allocating liquidity to the yard industry over the coming months, simply because they have the capacity to do business. They have a certain liquidity to compete with. They may be competitive in a well boat market, for example. But the challenge is that when you're going to make investments, the liquidity is tied to the individual project until it's completed, and in other words, one doesn't go out and start building order servers in the market. We're about to say it's going to be something or not for the yard industry. There the government in the further follow-up needs to be clear, and with it ensuring both the entire maritime value chain and the maritime cluster and also thousands of Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1266	We're in a crisis of a different kind than what we've had before. It's often the experience that bigots representatives, government members and others tell of a journey they've been on, that they've met a human being, in fact, and have had some experience with it. They tell about their visit, and about the one they met, and they travel back here, and then it's probably about as it was before. There's something a little small about some of those visits, I have to say. But this crisis is not like that. This crisis is my son, who has just been quarantined and luckily came out with negative testing. It's my grandmother, who I'm not allowed to visit at the hospital. This crisis is my acquaintances and neighbors, who are losing their business and their jobs. That's who we call the hairdresser, but who's really my friend, who just bought a hairdresser's salon, and started up at this point, or those I know who own a hotel, who were actually going out of it and selling and getting a different day of life, but who have now been through the crisis instead. And those who have felt that business may not take into account or are too short-sighted, or that it is unprofessional work, at least see something new when they see how much individual businesses have taken into account, turned around and tried to create a safe everyday life and a future for their employees and businesses. It is as Nordahl Grieg wrote in the fantastic poem of April 1940: «We are so few here in the country, each fall is brother and friend» – not a stranger you have visited. As 2000 years ago, we are now waiting, before Christmas, for salvation, not for our soul, but for the pandemic, through a vaccine. And I've told everyone that it's been important to get to the bottom of it and to the point of infection. But I have to say that I might react somewhat to the fact that it looks like one of the parties in the hall believes that the most important thing now is to shout “wolf” – both in real and in transferred meaning. The head of the nutrition committee sometimes confuses pride with self-satisfaction and presents it as if it were just saturation and not humility. For my part, I will not be re-elected – it is not my own choice, but that of others – but because of an ongoing diet, I have rarely been as hungry as I am now. But that might not be what he was thinking about. We have to be humble in order that in a crisis like this, there will be things that don't go as they should. We're going to learn from mistakes, and maybe we're going to make new mistakes, so the world goes on, but at the same time it has to be allowed to be proud of what another sheep does. I'm proud to have gone down 15 kilos, but I know the body isn't perfect. So I'm proud, but not perfect, and still hungry. And I'm proud of Norway: everything is not perfect, but I'm proud of what we've got, and we're still hungry. I'm proud of the companies that have turned around, that have adapted, that have found new solutions, and that have folded up their sleeves and gone on, that need help and get it, and will get it on as well. I am proud that we have set up arrangements faster than other countries and more comprehensive than other countries. I'm proud of our health effort, which makes the crisis shrink and go over faster and provide more jobs. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1279	Then the president can tell you that the canteen is open! Then the next speaker is Sverre Myrli. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1286	– And he sat in the cantina so long that it was only as far as he could get the word! On Wednesday afternoon, a dramatic message was received, namely that all ferries and quickboats to the Boreal shipping company were given a sailboat. It got – I think – dramatic consequences, because Boreal is a shipping company operating ferries and fast boats from Finnmark in the north to Rogaland in the south. Let me make it clear that I do not find any basis for criticising the authorities and what was done, rather on the contrary, because it is absolutely essential that security has first priority. Security is most important, but we also need to be aware that when something like that happens, it has a very big impact on people and on business. Many of our businesses are totally dependent on the ferries leaving. Companies must have raw materials in and out. Just think about our seafood industry, which is totally dependent on getting fish and other products transported out. If the ferry is standing, and if it lasts for a long time, it's very difficult. Now the matter was resolved quite quickly, but we have received many enquiries from people along the coast who are now uncertain about what happened and who are uncertain about the future. So, as I said, it's good that we have systems for this, it's good that the authorities intervene, because security should never be gambled with. But we also have to be aware of the great consequences that come when something like that happens. And that's what I'm going to recommend to the Minister of Industry, as many have also mentioned in the debate today: we need to be aware of the consequences when something like that happens. The authorities need a system to follow it up, and we need to have an information system for people and businesses, businesses out there, when something like that happens. So my recommendation to the government and the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Shipping, and the authorities in general is that this is taken seriously. It's never going to be gambled with security, but at the same time we have to have a system that captures and follows up, and that informs the audience when something dramatic like this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1299	I want to link some considerations to the debate that has also been going on here today on the taxes on wealth, because that debate really bears the mark that the differences in both wealth and power are increasing. It is at all striking to what extent it is for the wealthy to preside over the debate on taxes on wealth also in this Chamber and in this debate, and not research and empirically. It is almost only the wealth tax mentioned in the tax system in today's debate on industrial policy, perhaps with the exception of the contribution of the representative of Løvaas, who spoke profitably also about other parts of the tax system that are important to business – yes, I would say far more important. What we know about the taxes on wealth is that it is the owners of the most solid corporations that pay taxes on wealth, and there are few examples of companies with so big liquidity challenges that they have to drain their business, that is, take out more profits than profits, to pay the taxes on wealth. The owners who pay taxes on wealth are precisely the owners who are best placed to resist the bad times. It's not the owners that are particularly sorry. Putting aside funds to pay expenditure, whether it be VAT, property taxes or paying off the loan, is also not unreasonable. It manages most people and most well-functioning businesses. And I'm sure there's a lot of people who would want them to let go of these expenses and spend the money on just what they want, but that's not proof that the wealth tax is unlucky or harmful to the Norwegian economy in total. On the contrary, the property tax is good for the Norwegian economy, and it is very accurate. We know that Norway is a good country to become rich in and operate in. We have in total lower taxes on wealth and capital than other countries. So the argument that the property tax is a strange tax doesn't hold water. We also know that the property tax is not harmful to Norwegian business. None of the studies conducted show this. Therefore, the latest tax investigation also recommended that the property tax should be maintained, and it also concluded that it is difficult and unfortunate to exempt so-called working capital, i.e. largely equity, from that tax. We know that professional advice internationally and at home suggests cutting income tax and increasing taxes on wealth and capital. So this is not what SV says, that's what's in line with international research and recommendations, and that's what SV uses for its policy. I'm glad to see that the right side is putting research and empirical on the table in the debate on the property tax. It is and remains anecdotes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1310	The Chairman of the Committee began his speech first in the debate with the serious situation in which the country is located. There are 200,000 unemployed, and we are going to adopt a budget for 2021 with strong instruments, with a new, reinforced system of industrial compensation for the whole of the world, which is also reinforced by the agreement on the Great Britain, with important areas of maritime activity, with efforts in the field of transport, with a green transition, which the country needs in the years to come in order to get out of the crisis we are in now, while at the same time addressing the major problems facing both us and the world. I find it fascinating that the proposal that the Central Party made today, which is also being discussed, is not about the budget – at least it is not about 2021 and what we are about to adopt. It's about shooting a genetically important wolf, which it's decided to move, and which it's working hard to move, in an area where it's not grazing animals, it's winter. You don't have a lot of time, at the same time it's short-lived, with all the necessary resources that are there, to carry out what the Storing has already decided. It is important to preserve the genetically important wolf because it is a consensus and agreement we have with Sweden, it is a commitment in international agreements we have, and it also follows from several previous decisions that the Stortinget has made, and we must follow up all of the Stortinget's decisions. I also live in the wolf zone. The wolf in the eastern part of the country is not threatened with evisceration or shooting; it is just threatened by its poor genetics. That's why we need to take care of the wolves that we have, which can help improve the genetics and the state of the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. Doing so will also help to provide an administration that mitigates conflicts. We should all be interested in that, but I am not sure whether the Central Party really wants to dampen the conflict, or whether this is all about making proposals that are primarily about building the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1321	I started the debate by talking about 200,000 who go into Christmas as the unemployed, and it has a concern for them. The central party solutions for what we want to do there are in our alternative state budget. When we have a budget debate, we have to face our issues, but we also want to fight the battles that are at stake, and where we have the opportunity to influence the policy. It is quite important for the Central Party that when decisions are taken by the Stortinget, the Government should follow up these decisions. We have tabled proposal No. Thirty-two. I want to go back a little bit to what happened in Stortinget on December 4th, so it was a state council, which openly raised itself above both the presidency and a gathering of magnificence by punishing the way in which a case was dealt with. It is possible to go into the minutes to see that the Council of State starts its article with it. It is also striking that in the debate on 4 December on the understanding of the decision, the Council of State interprets it in a completely different way from what he has done in retrospect. Before the decision was taken, he gave a description of what this decision would mean, what consequences it could have. Now he interprets it on behalf of random statements in the staging room and runs a completely different line than what's there. – This is not jus, and it's not politics, it's abuse of power at all. One must base a decision that is not misunderstanding, but one that he has published. So we're making a new suggestion, which is understandable. I think that the Council of State will start well the day after day by thanking the Advance Party for allowing him to be the Council of State. I think it's a bit easy for the Progress Party to run on without taking on the responsibility they have as a support party for the government. I'm fooling into where the Right has been in predatory politics. The policy on predators is that we have a two-part objective, which we must have predators, and we must also have grazing resources. There's such a bias in this. Traditionally, there were some Right-people from the predatory son who fought for this, who stood by the demands. It's almost as if I'd like to wish Christmas to former staging representative Gunnar Gundersen, because he's missing out on these issues, he made a balance. I do not intend to have more articles, even if I should never be so provoked. It's more important than ever that we get on the fly and get run around and get activity in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1338	The industrial policy of the Workers' Party is a very important part of the overall goal of cutting emissions, creating jobs and ensuring fair development, where as much as possible can be involved in the journey we are going through in the decade and the decades we are going into. There are very important things happening in the markets we export to. Norway is a very open economy, and it makes little sense to think about industrial policy in Norway without understanding it in its international context. Then I would like to stress that what is now known in Europe as Europe's green gift is really serious. We have seen this confirmed in the last few days, how many important decisions, both the budget decision and others, have fallen into place. So it's a climate policy, but it's just as much a policy for industrial development and industrial development in a different direction. This is the most important market we export to. A lot of the same happens in the United States from January 20, when Joe Biden takes over as president. One can already look into many of the plans they have put forward for a massive transformation of all policies towards a sustainable, circular and renewable future. This is important for us to understand. In this context, there is also a strong stepping-up in the belief in the role of the public, a strong state that plays a clear role. Not a strong state that does everything, but a strong state that makes clear demands, that uses the tax system to drive out what you want more and to push away what you want less, that makes with risky and patient capital, that uses public tenders much more actively and that at all places an entire instrument in the direction you want to point out, including a clear use of public ownership. It is precisely the policy we are pursuing in the coming years, which is clearly reflected in the draft programme of the Workers' Party. I think we're going to see in the future, I think, and that's a good news, a fairly broad consensus that Norway needs to change quite strongly to both use the opportunities that this creates, and also acknowledge that much of what we've lived on before, it's going to be less of a future. But I think we're going to see a pretty significant distinction between what we might roughly call the right-hand side and the left-hand side of the belief in a more active state. I would like to remind you that the trend we are now pointing to on the left is, in fact, what is the international megatrends now, in Europe, in the United States and in the major Asian economies of growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1349	The matter of wolf management is now about a very concrete situation in Rendalen and Stor-Elvdal. It's also very much about trust in government. The size decided clearly that the expansion of the wolf zone we now have would be lifted from December 15, and then people are struggling very hard to understand why it has not yet happened. How are people in our country to understand that a decision in the Great Britain, which it is absolutely impossible to misinterpret, is not followed up, and that both the Labour Party and the Advance Party have still not raised the issue of sin, but on the contrary have legitimized the way of action of the Council of State in the change of lines? That's at least how I interpreted the posts that have been so far. The majority has not decided that the expansion of the wolf zone should be reduced by 30 p.m., as announced by the Council of State last night. Nor have we decided that the wolves in the Deisjö Revirate should be moved. We have decided to abolish the extension of the wolf zone from 15 December. It's been four days. It has still not happened. What is a terrible sin in these matters is that the decisions on predators are taken by very many who sit far away from everyday life to those who live with predators. There are few people in Norway who have this close to the body. The areas we're talking about now are also areas that are not very densely populated, but these are important things for them. But of course, it's hard to be heard when you're in a minority and stand up to the power that's in bureaucracy. You stand up to the Left and the Right, who have been overrun in government this year after year, and now you also stand up to the Labour Party and the Advance Party, which seems to be failing on the rise side. In this debate, the Council of State itself has made it clear that the proposal now presented by the Central Party will open the way for killing in the Deisjö region, even though the Deisjö couple, i.e. Elgå-wolf and Deisjö-tyspa, are still there, so we now know that he thinks that if it were to be adopted. That's exactly what the Stortinget really decided on December 7th, that the area was to be opened for hunting from December 15th. There was no reservation in that decision that the wolves had to move first. It's Christmas in a few days. This is the last chance we have here in Stortingen to make a difference in this matter before Christmas. Now, the Labour Party and the Advance Party are sitting with all their power, and what you press during the voting, what you press a button, has everything to say about the hope of people in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1364	The Finnland race has become a well established brand and has established a unique position as one of the world’s most demanding and popular dog races with more than 120 participants from 15 nations. The Finnmark race was held for the first time in 1981 and has a 40th anniversary of 2021. There is a high potential for further profiling and nutrient development with the Finnland cycle as a catalyst, especially in the tourism industry. Finnmark is a unique part of Norway, and the Finnmark race can play an even more important role in the profiling of Norway and North Norway as an Arctic destination. The municipalities participating in the Finnmark race have a good ownership of the event, and the Finnmark race helps to unite and create cooperation across the municipal boundaries. The Finnmark race wants to implement a three-year project aimed at making better use of the economic potential and helping to create more jobs. As a finnmarking, I am very pleased that the Progress Party got a pass to grant 2.5 million. kr to this project. Then I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to the government fraction in the Business Committee who sees the possibilities of this project, and that we agreed to increase the funding to 5 million. kr. We have noticed that the level of ambition of the government has fallen considerably since the party of progress went out of government, especially in transport. Road proposals were reduced by nearly 1 billion. NOK, while car-related charges were proposed to be increased almost accordingly. Fortunately, we were negotiated that the transport budget would increase significantly. It's going to smell asphalt all over the country, as most people know as a distinct FrP stamp. Then I am very happy that Transfareliv bridge and the current bridge in my home state get funds. There are bridges that unfortunately have a large maintenance seat and have ended up in the valley of the shadows after the red-greens have parked them there. I have to be allowed to comment on some of the Central Party's alternative state budget, a budget proposal that came so late that the rest of the Stortinget almost already started the financial debate. The central party submitted a draft budget consisting mainly of round total items. It may be convenient, to criticize others, to keep the door open when one himself is criticized for lack of bets. One example is the 700 million. Dr one set out to strengthen hospitals in Norway, without any more specific explanation. If they get criticism from Alta, they're going to be used there. They get criticism from Kristiansund, and then we spend the money there. If they get criticism from the Inland, the money will be used there. So it's very convenient to have round sum items to refer to. Last, but not least, I have to mention the border trade. The progress party was able to cut taxes on typical wholesale products by nearly 3.7 billion. kr. Historical action to contribute to more jobs in Norway, said the manager. Finally, the budget agreement is a very good budget to help secure and create new Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1381	I take the floor because I hear that the debate documents what has been the main line of right-wing government policy throughout this period, and there are several of the speakers who celebrate two elements that are very important also when we talk about business policy. One is the tribute of 30 billion. kr less in tax. I am very surprised that it is not at all possible, at any time, to make the representatives of the right-wing parties in Norway realize that creating inequality is a challenge for the stable value creation of a society. As Kaski's representative said very well, there's no evidence that tax relief for business to the extent that it's here creates jobs and stability. But you stick to it anyway. It does not belong to this debate, but it is part of the big debate that, at the same time as you do, you have a pandemic that affects hundreds of thousands of people, who end up on Nav and other instruments, but you don't want to give them holiday money. Why are the intermediate parties of the Christian People's Party and the Left in such a galley, sitting quietly and just letting it sink in, the inequality challenge and evolution that we're here to see? Is it going to serve business? No, it's going to hurt business. We know this, but we have a majority in this room that establishes such an economic-political culture. The second element, which is also a mantra, is the sale of the state's interests in companies and businesses. That's the other side of the case. That is what is at the heart of the right-wing policy, that is to say, to weaken the state. The big paradox is that we have spent weeks and months in this debate using the state to deal with the pandemic. Had we not had a strong state, we would not have had the opportunity to deal with the pandemic, but none of this sinks into the right side of the policy. It should be a great cross of thought for them that without the strong state we would not have been able to handle the pandemic. Even the NHO shouts at the state, at the industry and at the best of the market, when they do not manage. I lived in 2008, and so did several others here. How would it be if we didn't have the state during the financial crisis in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1393	People and businesses throughout Norway are hit hard by the pandemic. About 200,000 people are totally or partially available. More than 60,000 are licensed. It is incredibly important that, as elected representatives, with the responsibility we have, we contribute to predictability in order to get through the crisis. It is both for the sake of all the workers who are unemployed, who are outsourced, and for the sake of all the companies that are at risk of going bankrupt, the people who are at risk of losing their work of life, who are built up through generations, but also because it is important for the Norwegian society, because the skills that the workers have, the values that are in those companies, are very much in need of us in the future. For this reason, it is important to facilitate vigorous action in the form of both income protection and compensation schemes, activity and conversion measures, and to ensure long-termity and a plan to ensure that a person can have security to get through the crisis. Now is the last meeting day in Stortinget before Christmas. There is a last opportunity for the government representatives to provide predictability to all those who are now on leave, who are in danger of being terminated because the period of leave is about to expire, and to support the requirement that, among other things. The centre party has put forward and which both employers’ and employees’ organisations are increasingly asking for. There is an extension of the period of leave, at least until the summer, so that all those who live with uncertainty at the entrance of Christmas as to whether there is a Christmas card or notice of cancellation they receive in the post can have the security that we are now to extend the period. To what was said by the representative Elvesuen that one has improved the compensation scheme: No, unfortunately, the compensation scheme still has the same weaknesses as before. For example, it is unreasonable for those who own a business because one is not properly covered up. There is also a lack of long-termity and predictability in this area. There is therefore a need for reinforced action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1408	Yesterday we had a debate on the transport budget in Stortinget. Then, of course, aviation was the theme of the debate. That is understandable, because aviation is very important in Norway. In a normal situation, we have regular services at almost 50 airports in Norway. In many places, the airport and air route are the only collective means of transport available. Aviation is transport policy, it is district policy, and it is industrial policy. Aviation has many, many employees, and also in industries that are suppliers, which are related to aviation, there are a lot of people working. Therefore, aviation is also part of a debate on the budget of the Business Committee. As we entered the crisis we are now in, the Workers' Party was clear that our objective must be that the three airlines we had when we entered the crisis will survive the crisis, that is, on the contrary, SAS and Norwegian. They're in a very difficult situation. The market is almost gone. Yes, the government and the state buy extraordinary flights from the three airlines. That's good. But it's as first aid to count, and it doesn't save the airlines in any longer term. And it's like, if you've been on first aid long enough, you're going to have to go over to the second type of treatment. We must remember that the airlines have not been covered by any of the other support and compensation schemes adopted by the Storting. That is why we also need to put in place arrangements for aviation and airlines. We in the Workers' Party have always been clear that we are willing to take different measures so that we can help and help the airlines, and the aim must therefore be to make the three airlines manage. The government is too positive - no, the government is too passive. Yes, they are positive when they express themselves, but there is too little action. The government is too passive, and we cannot conduct a policy where the motto is: what happens, it happens. There must be powerful measures to save aviation, because what happens in parallel is that we now see unprofessional airlines, low-cost companies, enter the market because the serious airlines are struggling. There are airlines with poor pay and working conditions, and some of them do not even accept trade unions. We do not want such actors in Norway. That's why we have to save the serious companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1419	I have to agree with the previous speaker that the government is very positive. This might be more an invitation than an article. The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski of SV had an article about what is most important to business in terms of taxes, and tried to explain in a way that reducing the wealth tax on working capital is not really so important to business that they are not really so concerned about it. So I invite SV and Kari Elisabeth Kaski on a study visit, and then we're going to get a lot of business people together who can tell that this is not anecdote, but reality. This is a tax that you actually have to pay no matter how the business goes, and in a crisis situation there is a real crisis up to the crisis for more, and the arrangement for that tax is ultimately a penalty for Norwegian ownership. It is discrimination against Norwegian ownership, which we do not need. My sector, which is fisheries and seafood, consists mainly of large and small family farms, where each fishing boat is a small family farm. That's what makes me particularly concerned about this, because more than ever we need to create more jobs, especially in the private sector, and then we need both people and family businesses who have the will to bet. Family businesses are the backbone of Norwegian business, and they are the most important ones we have to create new activity and new jobs. If more of the funds are left in the enterprise, it means that there is more to invest in and develop the enterprise and create new jobs – and get out of the crisis we are in now. I think removing the wealth tax on working capital might be the most important thing we do to lay the foundation for more jobs and increased value creation. So there's also reason to say that maybe the most important thing we do in terms of this inequality is to get people to work. That's what might be the biggest difference between those who don't have a job and those who have a job. So we have to do everything we can to lay the groundwork for more jobs. Finally, I would say, I was about to say ‘good wolf’, but I would say good Christmas from all of us state councils who are here today, and thank you for good cooperation and good line changer in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1432	Today, building materials and planks from houses and buildings that are demolished are largely burned. However, there is a very important note in the state budget setting, where the Business Committee refers to Forestia's return cleaning project, and where the Business Committee points to the importance of new industrial development and the creation of jobs on the valuable raw material that can be recovered. It is a general problem for forest industry policy to use more of the valuable raw material in Norway, instead of just exporting it directly or burning the valuable resource from which we can create more industrial jobs. This project will be able to generate 100 jobs in total, and the investment needed by the state is only 80 million. kr. These are among the most effective projects described in this setting in terms of cutting emissions, creating jobs and building confidence in the future in a region where 40 pst. the working-age population is out of work. In a larger picture, this is the answer to what we're going to have more of in Norway, because last year our country went with a trade deficit of 277,000 million. kr. It's the biggest foreign trade deficit ever in our history, corrected for oil and gas. Norway has never been as oil dependent as we are in 2020, and the latest up-to-date data from the SSB show that we had an even greater deficit by November this year than in the whole of last year. In the first eleven months, our deficit is 287,000 million. kr in trade with other countries. It shows that we need such projects that Forestia starts, and that is where the state has to know its visitation time and make sure to contribute. Here we have the responsible state councils in place, in a row and row – from forest, food to climate and environment – and the Workers' Party expects this note to be followed up with swift and concrete action. Then I can finally say: We're going to have industrial workplaces on the ground, not burned wood in the air, but we're going to have another thing in the air in the Inland, and it's a helicopter, and it's going to come right away!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1443	The central party budget is too full employment and the fight against unemployment, because it will provide economic security. To do that, we need to have a business policy and an industrial policy of a completely different caliber than what we have today. We have to have powerful economic instruments. We don't get to a change that's being talked about here, but we're changing the policy. We have to break with nutrition neutrality. To the Labour Party's leadership, I would say that one has to put the community's money into productive work, regardless of what Brussels thinks. And here we have the nucleus. After all, in Norwegian society, there is not one matter of importance that we can put into practice at home – we have to ask others about law first. Otherwise to the representative Ola Elvestuen: He said that we must take care of a genetically important wolf, a Finnish-Russian wolf – a Finnish-Russian wolf of which there are tens of thousands in Finland and Russia. It's pretty interesting for me to be part of that discussion and hear this about the wolf now. I've been in on it for over 25 years. In 1996, when we got the great wolf decision, the wolf settlement between the then state council Torbjørn Berntsen and the Christian People's Party, the argument was that there was a particularly genetically important southern Scandinavian wolf tribe we were going to take care of. I realized that at the time was not true, because there had not been wolves in South Scandinavia in many decades ahead of that discussion. Nevertheless, it was driven forward. The head of the World Wolf Organization in the Midwest told me as State Secretary in the Ministry of Local Affairs in 1999 that this was not correct. Now we get the discussion about a particularly important genetic wolf – the Finnish-Russian wolf is going in. One of the reasons we are in this ampre discussion about wolves is that the debate has not been honest. It hasn't been honest about genes, it hasn't been honest about the biological fact that you can't have the lion and lamb next to each other. It has certain consequences, and that's what makes people affected, so pissed off, because one sees that the authorities and the elite say something different than what is a fact. My appeal in the discussion about the wolf is that we now get an honesty in. It's okay to take care of a Finnish-Russian wolf, but then one has to say that it's important for Norway to have the Finnish-Russian wolf in Norway because there's not enough of it else in the world, and then we'll have to discuss the fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1456	It is nice to witness to Martin Kolberg's eclectic indignation over the Norwegian right-hand side. But we who are here are quite proud that in the situation that our country is currently in, we are making sure that the yard winners in the West now keep the last crowns they have left and can invest in new jobs, instead of doing as the Labour Party suggests – to drag them into wealth taxes. That's the consequence. There are no piles of money in the flow. It's the last heads that are left in many companies now, and that can create new work, Martin Kolberg and the Workers' Party will pick up. Not only that, because they're not there: at the time we're in now, they're going to double the annual growth rate of CO2 in Norwegian industrial sites. It is a direct and targeted taxation of industrial workers across the country — in a sort of error that it makes jobs safer. It is okay that a person lived in 2008, but one must have lived longer than since 1908 in order to believe that more taxes will give new jobs. One calls for empiria, but one has nothing to do with that debate. These are targeted tax sharps for Norwegian workplaces at a time when Norwegian companies are completely shattering the ground wall. That's the answer from the Workers' Party. In debate after debate this fall we have seen it, and in the last discussion we have before going home to Christmas and meeting people who have jobs at risk, it is Christmas greeting from the Labour Party and the rest of the Norwegian left. If you're going to live in the error that you're on the right-hand side, you're not proud of the priorities you're given, you have to trust me again. That's what enables people to meet safely in 2021, with the assurance that there are people on this dump who have taken the signals from the industrial workers out there, who have not gone wild in the axis between Youngstorget and Karl Johans Gate to find out about this house, and who have actually listened to people who have shoes on, in industrial workplaces after industrial workplaces. If you're afraid of ideological skyscrapers, I recommend you start by taking your own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1472	We who are elected people are set here to serve the people. When I'm going to look back in the year 2020, it's the meetings with all those who have lost their jobs, or who are afraid to lose their jobs, who are going to be one of the strongest impressions. When we go out of 2020, it's about. 200,000 standing without a job. That's about. 60000 which is wholly or partly permitted. We in the Center Party believe we've done too little. Of course, the government has done good things, the Storting has done good things, we've got different things that have relieved the crisis a little, but I think it's done too little. One of the things that I think it's very strange that the government hasn't done – and very unwisely – is extend the permitting code. It was a great debate even before the summer. Then you were forced to extend it eventually, but you waited a long, long time before you chose to go from 6 to 12 months. A lot of trouble was created instead of creating security and tranquillity. You should do the same thing now. Instead of creating insecurity and unrest, calm should be created, as was done in August/September, because a little more security was created. Now Jan Tore Sanner, as Minister of Finance, has announced that he will take a look at it, perhaps come up with measures in January/February. But our concern is that many people will be abandoned in that interim phase, when you could actually get the security of having the law of permacy a little longer, so that you could get through the crisis. For it can be seen that the hotel industry, the restaurant industry and other industries will return in June, July, August, September. There I believe the government has been both for system faith and for old-fashioned in its thinking, and that it has been considered that everything is normal, and then one has forgotten the people. Then it's Norwegian aviation. I can only make the President aware that I have not received any speaking time. It's very generous. But it could be that you give me some time to talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1485	I have a good overview here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1490	You have a good overview there, yes. Then I'll keep talking. I'd like to put on a little too, because I have a lot on my heart. For Norwegian aviation: In the debate on Norwegian aviation, it has sometimes seemed that the government has been more concerned about attacking former Norwegian leaders than about having Norwegian jobs at the other end. That's why it seems that former Norwegian leaders have not done a good enough job, almost an excuse for not doing anything right now. But the discussion we need as a national assembly is whether we want Norwegian air carriers when this crisis is over. The answer to that is yes. We want onions, SAS and Norwegian to be there in the next round. Therefore, it is once again amazing that the problem has been pushed so far in front of you that you have not had a separate package of measures adapted to Norwegian aviation. It seems that it's more important for the government to apologize than to do something. For the predatory debate, with which I will end – now I understand that the president thinks I've been talking for 3 minutes. But to the predatory debate, why are there so strong feelings in it? Well, precisely because we have a government that behaves arrogantly. You've forgotten to listen. [[The President clubs.]] Here it was even a clear decision that said you should now make a change, and then use Sveinung Rotevatern – I will spend 20 seconds at the end due to a lack of timekeeping. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1499	Then you approach 5 -- time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1505	You've forgotten to listen, you're just using stuff like it suits you, and you're trying out big decisions. It is extremely unwise in 2021: Listen more and boast less. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1510	I have to end with a few thoughts about another area, the Central Norwegian acting. While Norwegian needs all the help they can get to get over the cracks, the Center Party comes with games that will crack their necks at the company. The company announces airline tickets to London in April for just under a thousand tickets. As you know, Norwegian and other companies need more passengers to earn income. At the same time, the centre party’s nestor, Per Olaf Lundtegen, is critical and believes that such tickets should cost at least NOK 4 913 and that therefore the air passenger fee must reflect it. That means thousands of extra dollars in increased charges. It's like you don't think it's true. It helps little to smile with the Norwegian tie around the neck when the practical policy aims to push prices up, so high that most people can't afford to travel. That play doesn't deserve Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1517	There's no doubt that the situation we're in now is critical. It is critical for many people out there: for parents who are struggling and are uncertain about whether they have incomes and work over Christmas, for businesses that do not know if the companies survive. But we know that many measures have been taken. Many measures have been taken this year, and we know that many of the measures will be continued until next year, just to help businesses and help people out there. While there are many companies that are struggling, it must be allowed to delight us that there are many who are actually doing it very, very well in these times, especially businesses located in bordered areas. I say 'frontiers', for formerly, the Nordics traveled across the border and traded. Today they stop. They are not allowed to cross the border, so they act in Norway. It's sales records. Then I must say I am very pleased with the agreement with the Progress Party on the reduction of taxes on goods placed on the market. It has been shown to have a potential of 6,000 to 8 000 jobs here in Norway when we have reduced charges. There are important jobs, so important jobs that it's not something we're going to flirt about, to gap over reducing these charges. That means a lot. Another important area for Norway is maritime environments. From the Oslo Earth to the Churchnes, it's that kind of activity. It employs over 80,000 people and creates values for over 90 billion people. kr. Norwegian maritime industry has evolved over time to become one of the world's most complete maritime environments. We have put a lot of action into the Green Maritime Programme, and these measures are being continued until next year. The Prime Minister's commitment to the green shift is incredibly important, and it was probably also helpful for the government to decide that the new ferries over the Westfjord should go on hydrogen. This could contribute to the development of a fantastic new industrial adventure in Meløy, Northland, and elsewhere. I must finally say that I am very pleased that the government parties in negotiations with the Progress Party got 1 million in place. kr for each of the geoparks. It's a small area, but it means a lot to the office in Brønnøysund, which manages one of the geoparks, Trollfjell geopark, and not least for Andyya Spaceport. It could be an industrial adventure and a space adventure that we don't know the outlines of. Finally, I want the President and everyone in the Chamber to have a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1532	Thank you, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1537	I'm frankly a little uncertain about how useful this is for the Storting, but I just can't afford to leave it alone. [[Laughter]] It is related to what first Council of State Ingebrichsen and then the representative Dale said – probably several others as well – during this debate and many other debates during this year. The level of taxes on wealth that the Workers' Party has now proposed and voted for is what we agreed in 2016. Now it has suddenly become completely impossible to eat for Norwegian businesses and something that destroys the labour market. It's amazing that it's like that. It just shows that I'm not the one with ideological skyscrapers, but that it's the right-hand side that has it. They are ideologically blinded by the belief that if the rich get richer, it goes well for everyone. It's not true. That's the point. It's scientifically untrue, politically untrue, and socially untrue. I do not understand and have never understood – and now I am addressing the Council of State in particular – that people who represent the political line for which the Council of State is the exponent in this debate do not understand that the state must also have income in order to deliver. With regard to business, they need constant relief to get their bottom line up – not to be red – but to be able to cope with ever smaller revenues, despite the fact that business is totally dependent on the state at the moment when the market is not working, read: the pandemic or other challenges. I don't understand that the right-hand side doesn't take it in. I've never understood that, and now I've been in for many years, and I hear the same thing all along. Had it not been for social democratic thinking, we had a much weaker business life in Norway, and we had a completely centralised society. Finally, I'd say, and this is going to be the last thing before Christmas, because I'd also like to say that I want to go home to Christmas, and I'd like to say hello to all the good Christmas: it might have been possible to think about the philosophy of less taxes if at the same time you hadn't taken from the poorest. The list of cuts – this was probably before the government council of Ingebrichsen entered the picture in the last four years – is so long, from dental to goggles to stomi bags and to holiday money. To the representative Dale: Say hello to those people, and we'll go together, but he won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1546	I also have no desire to extend this debate, because I want to get home to my daughter, whom I have seen a little too little this fall. But the Council of State took the floor and invited me on a trip to learn. He's not the first to do it. [[muttering in the hall]] That wealthy and capital owners would want them to pay less taxes, and that they would want them to have a little more money left when the tax bill is paid, is not surprising. However, it is not sufficient to shape the tax system in Norway, which is intended to achieve more objectives, at the Community's best. We in this room cannot design a tax system according to the wishes of some people. I have repeatedly challenged the right-hand side in this room to show research and empirical support in their view of reduced taxes on wealth. The reality is that it doesn't exist. Last week, a new study from the London School of Economics clearly states that cutting taxes on the wealthiest leads to an increase in inequality, but has no appreciable effect on economic growth or unemployment. I'm sure it's a study that confirms it. On the other hand, we know that taxes on income can affect both the supply of work and the value creation of enterprises much more than different types of taxation of wealth. This is the professional and empirical background for SV proposing a tax shift where we increase taxes on wealth and reduce income taxes. That is what is best for the whole of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1557	Cut, create, benefit – these are the three most important keywords of the way we have to go: cut emissions, create jobs, distribute burdens and benefits in a fair way. In the fall I have traveled a lot around and visited different companies. I've been to Kristiansand and I've been to Elkem, I've been to the Hyen and I've been to the Brothers Aa, I've been to Trondheim and I've been to talk to Selfa Arctic. What is the message these have given when I have asked them: what is their main message, which I can bring back to the main hall? Set environmental requirements, has been the review tone. The most important thing that politicians can do to help business is to set environmental requirements. There has been no cut in the property tax that has been wanted no. one. Norwegian industry knows that the ambitious environmental requirements are ready to win the competition. If we sit here, are able to take the climate crisis seriously, if we sit here, are able to set the ambitious environmental requirements that businesses are asking for, it will go well. It has changed dramatically since the 1970s, when industry is fighting hard against all environmental requirements that have to be met. Today only oil directors are fighting the environmental requirements. In the future, we're going to cut, we're going to create, and we're going to distribute burdens and benefits in a fair way. Then we'll be able to solve the big challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1566	I was inspired by the post of the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, who said a lot of reason. I would like to stress that in recent years we have experienced a significant development in the thinking of industrial policy, industry policy, setting some major societal goals and targeting the whole of the instrument. Among other things, I do. I myself have been followed carefully because I have managed a business policy selection for the green shift in the agenda, where several of Lundtigen's colleagues have participated – both Geir Pollestad, who is here, and Vice-Chair Anne Beathe Twinnereim – together with other parties on the left. We agree on a lot about how to set a course, how to point out some big goals, and how to use the apparatus that the state can make available, too early to bring forward what will pay off in the long term, but that the market alone will not do. The market has enormous creative power. It's very nice to say about the market, but the market has it like the rest of us, it's doing the very best with a little love and care, and that love and care should come from the state. If it doesn't, you get, among other things, a high degree of centralisation, contrary to a good and overall principle of using the whole country, and social differences. The state has to compensate for that, and one has to set direction. But then to the second part of my post, on which the representative Lundtägen was also in – he obviously heard me like we were going to ask the EU about law. That wasn't the point at all. What I was concerned about is that the markets that are absolutely crucial to our continued prosperity are changing, and – to put it that way – without asking us about law. They change anyway. A fossil economy is in the process of being replaced by a renewable, circular and sustainable economy, we all know that, but the speed has risen sharply because of the heavy industrial policy efforts we are already seeing in the EU – regardless of us, it actually happens – that we are going to see in the United States, and that we are also seeing in the major Asian economies of growth. Well over two thirds of the world’s gross domestic product is produced in countries that already have – or in the near future means having – a net zero for 2050, i.e. have no more emissions than what you capture. Then we have to assume that it is a very different world than the world in which we became rich, and if we want to be rich in the future world, we have to understand what it is like. It has nothing to do with aligning with others, it's to understand some megatrends that affect us at least. The whole point of my post instead was that you can't really have a meaningful discussion about Norwegian industrial policy without understanding the depth of the changes that are now taking place, changes that point in many ways towards things like Lundtigen and I agree on: a greener, more sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1577	The debate may well go to the end, but there has been an interesting debate. I just want to repeat to the representative Kolberg that I think it was timely that he took the word and said what he said in Stortinget, because it is useful if you want to listen to what Kolberg said. That was a good message in it. I want to add something to the extension of the discussion about the property tax. I'm amazed at the right people in particular, because they talk so much about the wealth tax, and then they don't do more with it than they've done. Why don't they just remove it? The same is true of the Advance Party. They have the possibility – instead of putting their faces in deep folds and being deeply concerned and talking about the last heads that are left at the yards. Why haven't they just removed it? But it's talking, and it's probably going to keep going. There'll be a lot of talk without them actually removing it, because the options might not be there. When I listen to the debate and look at what we've been discussing in the last few years about business policy, I think the country needs a new course in business policy. I think it is absolutely necessary if we are to reflect on the safety of workers for work and not least on the company's future basis. This should be the last right-hand budget adopted in many decades. Then we heard about the last crown that saved the shipyards. No, I've been talking to an incredible number of shipyards around the coast during this fall. What had saved the yards, and I hope to contribute, is a more active state – a state that enters and facilitates the implementation and implementation of measures. That's what saves the jobs. It is the government's contribution into the yard that saves jobs, not the last split of the private owner. That's what this is all about. Therefore, industrial policy is so important, especially at a time when the market is not itself involved in the contract books. That's what's important. The Menon report on the maritime sector states very clearly that the measures taken are very little or nothing. That's the result. Finally, the majority of the population has failed as it was. There are many companies that have gone bankrupt and will go bankrupt as a result of not having received money right now. There are 200,000 people who are unemployed, and we are talking in this room about the burdens the state carries on its shoulders to maintain the activity in the business world. We're proud of how much we've given. The employee who makes NOK 300000 and is on leave gets reduced his income by NOK 60000. How many are there that with your hand on your heart can say that there's a safe way to go into the future? It's very unsafe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1592	I have now never been invited on tour by the Council of State. [[muttering in the hall]] Interestingly, the wealth tax has become central to the food debate, but it is not without reason, for the government has made it its major flagship in industrial policy. It is through the taxes on wealth that a person should build this country – by cutting the taxes on wealth, by choosing to mark. That's the way to build the country. So has it been asked over and over again: Is there any effect of this? Does it have any nutritional effect at all? We don't get any answers. We're going to get some very hard-to-read vision. We're getting a few dozen billions of dollars worth of money tax now, and there's no evidence, no foundation, no documentation, and no research that supports it. On the contrary, there is evidence, research, empirical evidence and facts – for those who are concerned about it – that show the opposite. Wealth tax cuts are not industrial policies. There is no industrial policy. It's different policy. That's the facts. I hope the councils come running up here, take the word again, come out of the good Christmas mood, answer and say, "No, that's not true, that's what the representative County says. Here's the facts; here's the one we're rolling them in the table. But I don't expect that to happen. So what are we left with? We are left with a debate on industrial policy in which the tax on wealth has been central, but where the tax on wealth has nothing to do with industrial policy. It illustrates the industrial policy of this government in general. They have no clear business policy. They've gone into a blank track into which, for ideological reasons, they've messed up. With the cheerful, happy message, I want, if I don't need to take the word again to one last remark, all a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1605	The opposition seems to be forgetting what characterizes a crisis here today. Decisions in crisis are based on an uncertain information base, time pressure, high risk and high social costs. I'm not saying that there aren't things during this crisis that could have been handled differently, there have been difficult decisions in government, but so far it might seem that very much has been done correctly. Norway has far fewer deaths than its neighbouring countries. Thanks to safe management and an amazing effort by health professionals, teachers, shop clerks and others, this has been possible. In the course of the crisis, the government has drawn various departments and different competences and stakeholders to strike a balance between the need for infectious diseases, the negative economic consequences and the societal consequences of the disease protection measures. Assessment for conflicting reasons is very difficult, because none of us have experienced a coronary crisis before, and none of us are sitting with the fasit. I think it is petty by the representative Pollestad time and again to repeat that the government has been hooked at press conferences. If there is a consensus among all crisis management professionals, it is that information – clear information, continuous information – is very important in a crisis. Hopefully, the representative Pollestad will not listen to Höie and Nakstad very far into 2021, because now there is a vaccine on the way that very many of us have great expectations. So now we take Christmas and we cross our fingers to get a new and promising 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1615	Thank you very much to Mr Espen Barth Eide. He said we're taking a common course, we're setting big goals. Then came the important sentence: ‘Uses what the apparatus that the state can make available’ — the apparatus that the state can make available. We live in a market economy. We have to have profitability. The state must help us to achieve profitability. The representative Aasland said we need a new course. I agree with that. Then we have to have new economic instruments; we have to have a new organization for profitability. At Hønefoss we had a large factory called Follum. It has now been said for almost ten years that there will be new business here, but there has not been. That's not happening. That's what needs to change. Then it was the representative Barth Eide who said we have to understand the depth, we have to understand the mega-trend. I agree. Some of the megatrends are that we have to make ourselves less dependent on oil. In order for us to maintain our well-being, we have to produce carbon from other sources. Then it must be profitable, then the processing must be profitable There had been nothing that had pleased me more than that on the red-green side we could agree on new instruments. Then we talk about proper tools, and not just small-scale objects – the tools that allow the wood-mass drum that has now become available in the Saugbruksföreningen, which does not go to the paper machine, to go to composite production. But then you have to have a ownership that has the necessary muscles to get to it. The centre party has been talking for many years about a state-owned green investment company, which can assist in this process by various means. Then we have to get rid of the legislation we now have on de minimis support in company internal training, where the Saugbruksföreningen meets the fact that they do not receive more than 2 million. kr over a two-year period to re-school their people from paper to composite. If the representative Barth Eide can participate in such a conversion, a fundamental change, then we will do what is necessary in Norway. And then we say, Brussels, okay, they're doing their thing, we're doing what's necessary for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1626	Emilie Enger Mehl has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1631	This has been a food debate, but today there has also been an important debate on predatory management, which has a major impact on industrial policy, on agriculture, and which now has a significant impact on trust in the authorities, on confidence in the follow-up of the Storting decision, and on the fact that there is a real management of predators in this country, and that not people in the zone or nearby live in a reserve. I think it is a terrible shame that there is no one from the Hedmark bench who has taken the word. The representative Sandtrøen is sitting here, he hasn't said anything now that the Workers' Party is about to go out on the ground. The party of progress does not defend why they are backing out. This goes to the seventh and last beyond people who live with these problems every day. There are many who have wanted ‘good wolf’. Then I remember Carl I. Hagen's words from last year, where he said that the only good wolf is a dead wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1640	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1645	The handling by the party of the question of wolves in this room is about managing the wolf settlement on which the Stortinget has gathered. We also expect the government party that is responsible for it to do so. Now we've been given a guarantee that the state's natural sight, SNO, will be standing until the wolf is moved, that the move takes place as quickly as the weather allows, that the entire area will be opened for hunting, and that the wolf will be GPS marked. Let me add that if in the days we are now going into, at Christmas, it would show that this is not the case, the government has a significant challenge. We come, based on the decisions that are now taking place around this specific case and killing in the son, to consider, if necessary, the need to renegotiate the entire wolf settlement in the new year if this is not fulfilled, as the Council of State has guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1654	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1659	I just want to thank the committee for the debate, and then I want to wish our three councils a Merry Christmas. I want to encourage you to have a holiday Christmas with Norwegian food, to find the right combination of seafood and meat, and to make sure that the vegetables are Norwegian. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish the Committee on Finance a Merry Christmas and I would like them to brief you on the debate they are about to have. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1664	The president was for a while worried that there was a lot more fun here than on the outside. The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1671	I think it was only right to clarify also the thoughts of the Workers' Party in connection with the replacement of lines with the Council of State, Rotevatn. We have also received the answers we need, and we expect a clear, clear and consistent follow-up of it, so that there is no doubt about either the compromise reached in 2016 or the decisions that have been made in retrospect. If not, we're also very fast there, as I think Dale pointed out, that you challenge what's decided. We look forward to it being followed up in a good way, and will vote against the proposal. Since I have half a minute left, I can all wish a really good Christmas, me too!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1678	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1695	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1702	Normally you say to give an explanation of vote, but I almost want to give a ‘speak explanation’, because this is a very brief introduction from my side, because I want to get back fuller in the next case. I point out that the government presented the State budget on 7 October 2020, as well as powerful financial measures related to the pandemic as an additional issue on 6 November of the same year. On 1 December 2020, the government parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party signed an agreement with the Progress Party on the State Budget for 2021. I refer to the treatment of Innst by Stortinget. 2 S for 2020-2021 on 3 December this year and resolve proposals for the case where the net framework for each framework area was adopted. The budget agreement is attached to this setting, and I will also refer you to the financial debate on 3 December this year. I look forward to coming back with an article with a little more political content in the next case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1711	I only have a few comments on the suspension: the Minister of Finance was concerned about the tax liability's capacity to carry out its core tasks if it were to continue to be responsible for the compensation scheme for the companies. It is therefore now being moved to the Brønnøsund Registers. I understand that concern, but I am all the more surprised that the Minister of Finance can then accept that the government in the agreement with the Progress Party both increases the ABE cut from 0.5 pst. to 0.6 pst. and, in addition, cutters a further 20 million. NOK in the budget of the tax administration to cover increased expenditure. This means less resources for back-testing and the fight against tax crime, precisely what he was concerned about would suffer if the department would continue to be responsible for the compensation schemes. The need for control is no less when, in a municipality like Bø, the wealth tax is reduced in order to attract rich people. It must be checked that these really live where they say they should. We propose in our budget to increase the allocation by 7.5 million. kr, as the establishment's share of a larger work package. Let me also point out that the Workers' Party in its alternative budget reduces the state's use of consultants. Consultants may be useful and necessary, but they have now assumed a level of concern in many establishments. It weakens the main principle of our working life, that the tasks should essentially be solved with permanent employees. But because the problems have to be solved, we suggest using half of the savings to hire people in the various levels, so that capacity and competence can be maintained that way. I take up the proposal Worker Party is behind this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1724	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1729	As the representative Svein Roald Hansen just pointed out, there has been a good deal of attention around the fact that from the government it was said that the tax rate does not have the capacity to manage the business compensation system further, which has also led to an extra time being spent on new systems, and that there is still no payment. There are companies that should have received compensation for September, which have still not received anything, and we come far out in January before that happens. One is the paradox, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen pointed out, that at the same time one will cut the appropriations for the tax system. Another thing that is so important to question is that while the tax rate was assigned to manage an important task related to a compensation scheme related to the pandemic in which we stand, the process of transferring tax collection to the tax rate was continued. At the initiative of the Central Party, one managed to put something at risk, but when we thought that this process should be pushed out in time and stopped, the government parties and their supporting party, the Progress Party, made sure it was completed from the current year. What we are dealing with today in terms of this process is that there is a large and demanding process of conversion, which takes resources both for the placement and for the implementation of the tax rate and for the execution of the existing duties of the tax rate. It was extremely unwise to implement that decision at a time when a major pandemic arose, where the tax rate had major and important tasks related to both the compensation mechanism and the work against labour crime. Over the past few weeks, we have seen clear warnings from different levels — including from the authorities, from those dealing with issues related to labour-life crime — that there is an increased risk of both the abuse of schemes established in the context of the pandemic and the increasing labour-life crime in different sectors of Norway. Therefore, there is a need for the tax haven to have sufficient resources to do its work, and there is a need for reinforced efforts in cooperation with both Kripos, Ecocrim and other agencies that are making an important effort to prevent labour-life crime in Norway. Some brief comments also about the Tolletaten: The Tollataten is also in a large and demanding situation, it is described in the case we are dealing with today. One has an ever-increasing volume to control, and it is clear from the point of view that it may be difficult to maintain the same level of control and preparedness because their budgets are under pressure. We believe there is a need to add more funds to Tolletaten, both in order to start the work of establishing a border station on the Norwegian side at Magnormoen, and to ensure that there is a 24-hour station at Bjørnfjell. Among other things, Norwegian industry in the fishing industry indicates that one loses a lot of money on the fact that it is not manned by the day. To the seventh and last Statistical Central Bureau: the Central Party, like several other parties, is committed to maintaining and strengthening both the activity of the Statistical Central Bureau on Kongsvinger. At least half of the employees should be there, and a targeted effort should be made to develop the important environment at Kongsvinger.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1744	I will refer here to some of the suggestions SV has in this setting. In this decade, the green conversion of Norway must speed up. It's urgent to cut emissions and transform our business and our industry into green. That need has become more acute after the unfortunate oil tax package adopted by the bulk of population in spring, which makes Norway more oil dependent. Instead of state subsidies to oil companies, we need to build new green engines in the Norwegian economy. The state budget must be green. Politicians must facilitate the distortion of financial markets and capital, and we must create new green markets. SV therefore proposes the establishment of a State investment company and a State investment bank. In Norway, the economic institutions have served us well. We have relatively robust banks, we have an independent monetary policy, we have a predictable fiscal framework, and we have a great deal of political agreement about the arrangement of the tax system, some disagreements about the level to which it belongs. Now, however, the world has changed, and it is a cross of thought for us when financial markets take a greater responsibility than politicians in turning the money in the green direction. Now we have to follow and make sure that the economic institutions change in line with the world. This means, among other things: the need for the central bank to have its climate objectives as part of its job description and for the government budget to be subject to real climate budgeting and reporting. There is a lot of capital in Norway, but the money is not invested sufficiently in line with change and climate change. If we look at the numbers, two thirds of banks' loans last year went to mortgages and commercial property, 2.3 pst. went to industry and similar small shares went to other industries. New purchasing power is very much channelled into increased housing prices, increased debt and financial instability, rather than into new productive investments. Projects and activities that cut and convert greenhouse gas emissions are often considered immature and are at higher risk than others. In that case, it may be difficult to secure credit and equity for these projects. In addition, the market for green debt securities in Norway is still underdeveloped, although it is now growing rapidly. A government green investment bank can contribute to addressing these two challenges. Such a bank may contribute to the long-term financing of green nutrient projects and to the financing of more green projects by financial markets. An independent bank with a clear mandate to contribute to climate change and green economic transformation – that is what SV proposes. It shall be aimed at profit-making. This may contribute to long-term capital and to the creation of new markets, so that private capital can also follow. What the market does not do must be done by the State. Finally, I would like to give a brief explanation of vote. SV is going to vote against the solution proposed by Red today. SV believes that the increases that have been in the remunerations and salaries of the members of the government in recent years have been far too high. We have therefore, for many, many years, made proposals against these increases, and we have largely stood alone, even though Red has come to the last three years. We are going to promote SV's own proposals when Stortinget deals with the remuneration of large-scale representatives and government members for the spring. So I want to take up the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1761	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1766	We're approaching the end of the year, and today we're adopting the last part of next year's government budget, but unfortunately it's going to be the same procedure as last year, when we start the Christmas holidays with a bismach. Many out there probably had a genuine hope that the Progress Party would bring the long-term unemployed and all the others that the government would bring into poverty in the new year, to the rescue of the budget – but one at a time. The budgetary agreement ended, as we know, as a betrayal of all those who need the community to set up for them. 2020 has been a tough year for very many. 2021 will be equally tough. But it didn't have to be, because the government and the Progress Party would have chosen to do something about the fact that tens of thousands of long-term unemployed would be thrown out of the paycheck, it would be less tough next year – also for the hundreds of thousands who get the holiday money from the times and lose much of the income for the summer, because the government and the Progress Party removed what was the holiday supplement on the daily allowance, and because the majority of people voted against the Redts proposal to reintroduce the holiday supplement on the daily allowance, and also against our proposal to extend and extend the daily allowance scheme. Had they understood, 2021 would not have to be so heavy for those who are now on leave, have been on leave, stand without a job when the next year comes. That the bourgeois drop in support of our proposals is not only sin, but it is also provocative when we see the same crowd's generosity towards the richest, with even more cuts in the wealth tax, even in the midst of a coronary crisis. In April, Red proposed to cut the gross salary by 20 pst. because we should also tighten up the lifeline when hundreds of thousands of others in our society are being permitted, are going into unemployment because of political decisions to prevent the spread of infection. The majority in this room were satisfied with a decision to freeze our salary only until further notice. Many thought that the crisis would soon be over, and that we could soon go back to business as usual and just continue after such a short-term wage freeze, and add to our already redundancy at the next crossroads. Over the new year, the remuneration committee will present its report. Red expects them to come up with proposals that effectively contribute to more moderate politicians' wages that are more in line with the incomes of the people most, to our voters, to those who are actually the reason we're all here on the Stortinget, and we want to stop the paylift that will run the down payment for well over 1 million. kr next year, if nothing is done now. Then we have a suggestion. What if we, like the reasonably privileged representatives we are at Stortinget, today also decide that we cut our payoffs by 20 p.m. until we deal with the proposals that the sample comes with in the spring? It is proposing Red today, and it is just voting for our proposal. The agreed wage freeze is good and good, but does not impress many, for hundreds of thousands have lost 20, 30, 40, and 50 pst. of its income this year, or destroy its work of life. There is an outrage between the everyday experience of hundreds of thousands of unemployed, outlawed, freelancers, small business owners in the crisis, and the beautiful words of fissures and hard work coming from the government. That abyss is growing for every day people are thrown out of the day-to-day pay system, and for every day whole industries remain standing without adequate crisis arrangements. Fortunately, we can do something about this, as Red proposes today, with a small but also important act to show that we, too, big-scale politicians, in solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of Northmen who have had life dramatically worsened in the last year, take action when the situation requires it. And that requires the situation now. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter. I ask the other parties to support it. They've done this in New Zealand. Then we can do it in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1789	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1795	Being a Minister of Finance is not just being responsible for the whole of a budget, it is also being responsible for several important agencies. I am therefore pleased to be able to present a budget where we, among other things. continues to focus on digitisation in the tax haven and the customs tariff. These are bets that benefit both residents and businesses. In 2021, the tax rate begins to simplify the reporting by employers and strengthen the control of compulsory occupational retirement provision. Work shall contribute to the orderly remuneration and working conditions of employees and to the less reporting of business. We will make it easier to identify which employers have not established a pension agreement for their employees under the OTP Code. This will ensure that even more workers receive the pension they are legally entitled to and contribute to equal conditions of competition between employers. At the same time, businesses do not report the same information to the pension scheme as they have already reported in the a-message. Business itself has estimated that this will save them about 780 million. kr every year. At the same time, the government proposes to shift the supervisory role from the Financial Supervisory Authority to the tax revenue to bring the control against the employer together. I remember in the setting that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV believe we should build another customs station at Magnormoen. The Tolletate already has a large and modern control hall there, which is barely 10 years old, and is manned by tollmen from Kongsvinger. In other words, a new station will be completely unnecessary. The dispatch duties on Magnormoen are carried out on the Swedish side and at a customs office that has opened 24 hours a day, all week. The distribution of dispatch tasks between Norway and Sweden is a common system based on border customs cooperation between Norway and Sweden and the EU used at most border crossing points. This cooperation makes it easier for business, such as, for example: does not stop both before and after the border crossing. 2020 has been a long and demanding year. Even though we see more points of light for 2021, we can be sure that we will also meet challenges in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1806	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1811	Last week, Ecokrim presented a very serious report, which described that economic crime in Norway is increasing both in prevalence, in scale and in different areas, and that shows how crime intervenes, ranging from drug trafficking and organised crime related to it, to financial crime and labour crime. In this picture, why does the government think it makes sense now to cut the appropriations for the tax rate, instead of strengthening the coordinated work of which the tax rate is part, but also other bodies that work specifically to reduce the crime of employment and financial crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1816	The representative will then have to look at the draft budget. It is true that the additional agreement with the Progress Party made a small adjustment, but at the same time we have strengthened the tax rate. The representative then addresses a very important topic, namely the fight against labour-life crime. That fight has strengthened the government through close and good cooperation with the relevant agencies, and we have a plan for further stepping up the fight against labour-life crime. I think it is particularly important in a period of crisis that this issue be put on the agenda, because it is clear that with liberal and good arrangements that we have specifically targeted at the labour market and businesses, it is important that this fight be given priority. It's done, and it's also revealed fractures, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1823	What is described in the draft budget submitted by the Council of State is a very demanding resource situation for the tax base. In the budget agreement, there is a cut in the draft appropriations presented by the government. At the same time, a new serious report from Ecocrime, which describes that, despite efforts made in the field of economic crime and labour crime, the problems are increasingly linked both to concrete support schemes for the coronary apathy and to organised crime spreading across different sectors of Norwegian society, and reinforced efforts are needed. Why does one not ensure, instead of cutting the tax rate proposal, rather to strengthen efforts both in those areas and in other areas of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1828	That's exactly what we're doing. In the government budget, there is a strong commitment to the police. That's the central one right there. The tax rate is doing a very important job, and the fact that we have transferred the tax collection to the state and we can do this in the context, will just contribute to the reinforced fight against labour-life crime. So I'll just show you that it's been a very successful transfer. There has been a good cooperation with the KS, with the municipalities. We look forward to this, together with the other measures taken by the government, helping to strengthen the fight against crime at work and against economic crime in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1833	The challenge is precisely that local tax collectors had knowledge of their areas and also contributed to the fight against crime at work. The centralisation that has taken place there has been warned against those who are working on the questions of local tax collectors. But in any case, what is the situation here is that in the draft budget that was presented, it is cut in the tax rate. As far as the police are concerned, we need both to strengthen the organised work of the police nationally and to strengthen local police work in a much more powerful way than that of the government. So once again, why didn't one help, when one came up with a budget agreement where, after all, one spent some extra money, to strengthen the work against the crime of working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1838	Because the government has a strong commitment to and against labour crime and financial crime. The representative may not view in isolation a budget agreement of about 14 billion. kr. We have a budget of 1,500 billion. kr, where there is a strong commitment to the police, and the government has stepped up the fight against labour crime and economic crime. There is no doubt that the successful transfer we have now made of tax collection, to the state, contributes to stronger trade unions and to a reinforced fight against labour crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1843	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1862	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1869	I have received permission from the case rapporteur in the case that is being dealt with here with the new aging, to speak on behalf of both, or at least address the matter. If he has any supplements, they will probably come in the Christian People's Party's own post afterwards. This year was in no way as we had thought. The country has experienced the greatest economic downturn since the war. In the current crisis, measures have been necessary to save jobs, avoid unnecessary bankruptcy and secure the income of ordinary people. Otherwise, the time off would have stuck, the way back would have been longer, and the fall would have been deeper. The sum of appropriations for financial measures adopted or proposed in connection with the outbreak of the virus has been estimated at 131 billion. kr. The structural oil-corrected budget deficit in 2020 is now estimated at about 392 billion. kr. It's about 149 billion. kr more than the 2020 ageing budget last autumn but 2,5 billion. kr less than estimated for 2020 in the national budget for 2021. The deficit is equal to 3.9 pst. by the capital of the State pension fund abroad at the beginning of the year and represents 12,3 pst. of trend GDP for mainland Norway. The budget pulse, which is the change in the structural oil-corrected deficit as a share of the value creation from the previous year, is estimated to be 4,5 pst. in 2020, as estimated in the national budget for 2021. Compared to other countries, we have done better both economically and healthily. I am proud of how both the public and the private have set up. Together with the population, who have participated in the work, Norway is at its best. Norway is now at a turning point. The virus and the economic crisis that have followed have created major problems, but not just new ones. Even before the pandemic there were dark clouds in the horizon, but now it is no longer quiet before the storm. The Korona crisis is far from over, but the crisis is over in a new phase. In the future, we need to continue the necessary construction and conversion of the Norwegian economy, while at the same time managing the effects of the pandemic. We must continue to create more jobs, carry out the green shift, get to an educational level and continue the inclusion process. I also refer to the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party on the ejaculation. Here, in particular, I would like to make the proposal to distribute 250 million. SEK to municipalities with unemployment over the national average. This shall provide an economic room for action to compensate local businesses affected by the pandemic and local infectious diseases. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have already agreed on a powerful compensation scheme in the context of the budget, but this payment comes as an extra good news to the municipalities before Christmas. The City Councillor in Oslo, Raymond Johansen, has used a lot of ambiguity over the past few weeks. Now he has to make sure to pass this Christmas present on to the business community in Oslo as soon as possible. So far, I record that both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party in Oslo seem to take a passive attitude. It's an incredible sin for business. In this debate, we also discuss the SV proposal that the State should guarantee an additional NOK 1 000 for each adult who receives a daily allowance or social assistance, and NOK 1000 for each child in families who have a daily allowance or social assistance. SV's Christmas gift of NOK 1000 will not help people out of the coronary crisis. What we need first of all now is to get people to work and that they have a job to go back to. It is much more sensible to continue to give priority to measures that help existing jobs survive the crisis and create new jobs. Income protection schemes have been extended and, at the latest, in the context of the State budget, strong financial measures were also put in place to save people's jobs, economics and health. Furthermore, we have said that we are closely following the situation and are ready to take the necessary steps. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee, the Administration, the Presidency and the Finance Minister and his Department for their good cooperation, and I would like all those mentioned and all other colleagues here on the Stortinget to have a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1890	At this last meeting in Stortinget, we are to balance the budget as the then Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, presented last year. It feels like an eternity ago. There have been many measures – as pointed out by the rapporteur – on which there has been a broad consensus and which have also been improved through the work here in Stortinget. The attitude clearly shows that 2020 was completely different from what we had seen when the budget was adopted a year ago. Billions are flying, and they're going to do it in a crisis. It's much more expensive in the long term if we don't now make sure to get people back to work as quickly as possible. Many young workers have been unable to get a foothold in the labour market even before the crisis occurred in March, and now many of the same workers are being pushed out only when businesses have to cut down. We have to do everything in our power to ensure that these workers are not pushed away permanently from work. It would be a disaster for the individual, but it would also reduce the possibilities of strengthening well-being in the coming years. The industrial policy debate we had earlier today is important in this way. Good work is not just a prerequisite for individual freedom. High employment is also a prerequisite for the development of care for the elderly, the promotion of schooling, etc. Over the past few weeks, the Workers' Party has repeatedly promoted the need for emergency aid for a hard hit nightlife and catering industry in cities and high-vaccination municipalities and local infectious diseases. We have been told that there is no need – that the compensation scheme that has not yet been paid is successful. Well, there must be a reason why an almost combined nightlife and catering industry in several cities sends an emergency call to the authorities that it is now a crisis. There must be a reason why a right-wing man in Stavanger, who is the owner of three dining areas, says that the government's packages do not hit, and that he will not participate in the election campaign to re-elect the government if no changes are made. It's good that a total finance committee now says that 250 million. kr is to be distributed to highly vacant municipalities in order to support the firms that are struggling, but for the Workers' Party it is important to make it clear that it is the State which has to bear the financial responsibility for the disease protection measures and that the State should have better and more accurate arrangements for the enterprises that are currently struggling. We know that many companies in cities like Bergen, Oslo and elsewhere are particularly hard hit by local infectious diseases, and we know that these companies are not being hit well enough by government compensation schemes. For this reason, the Workers' Party has proposed a turnover-based grant scheme for establishments affected by local disease protection measures, and we believe that the 250 million now to be distributed should come to the top of better and more accurate compensation schemes. In the financial committee's position on the re-balancing of the state budget for 2020, red-green parties agree on better pension proposals, including: a fairer regulation of pensions and an extra NOK 4000 to non-uniform minimum pensioners this year. We give a hand bill to the unemployed, the outlawed and the social welfare recipients. We strengthen our hospitals, the seasonal companies, and not least the municipal economy. There is a good basis for another course, where, after the election next year, another majority will reduce the differences between people, have an active industrial policy across the country and strengthen the welfare of municipalities and hospitals. With that, I would like to address the proposals made by the Labour Party in the vote, and at the same time take the opportunity to wish the Financial Committee, the Minister of Finance, the President and everyone else a very good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1909	Thank you. The representative Svein Roald Hansen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1914	As expressed by several, the year we are now in the process of getting behind us has been a very special and very demanding year. There are some who seem to claim or claim from the red-green side that it seems like the right parties, as you say – then you probably also include the Progress Party – no longer believe in the market and the excellence of the market to solve crises and challenges that arise. Just let it be said that the Progress Party still has faith in the market, but what we are now facing is a very comprehensive pandemic – not just in Norway, but internationally. It hits very wide. It affects businesses, it affects employees, and not least affects individuals. In other words, the situation we are facing is too extensive for the market itself to solve. It must also be contributed by the state. Therefore, the Progress Party has also contributed in the course of this year to significantly strengthening the package of measures and compensation schemes proposed by the Government. This has been absolutely necessary in terms of both the device and the level. We have to be careful about establishing schemes that can give one too long-term effect, because it can turn negative. We have to imagine, hopefully, that we're not approaching a normal situation for too long. So the measures we are implementing must be powerful, but at the same time they must also be of a temporary nature. The working party refers to proposals for its own compensation schemes for the outdoor industry and those affected by local infectious diseases. The situation is that they will also be covered by the general compensation scheme. It is also turnover-based, and there shall be a relationship between the fall in turnover and the level of the flat-rate, unavoidable costs. What is the challenge, which is the critical, is time and how quickly you can implement both the application process and the payment to those who are struggling. It is therefore important now to put in place a support scheme through the municipalities of the municipalities with the highest unemployment rate and unemployment rates above average. That money can be paid before Christmas. We know that municipalities have already established procedures for their own schemes, and that means that the money can get out quickly to those who really have major challenges in the situation we are facing. The other proposals would not contribute anything. What the Workers' Party and the SV have proposed would not help, because it is not possible through state institutions to make a faster payment to business operators than the general compensation scheme provides. One thing that matters to the Progress Party independently of crisis or pandemic is pensions and pensioners. In the budgetary agreement we have negotiated with the government parties, we have made significant promises regarding both the regulation of current pensions next year and an increase in the minimum pension. It is important, and it is a follow-up – so far – of the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted in Stortinget together with SV. Then we get to a cash payment now to the lone minimum pensioners of NOK 4000. It is a cash payment because it was possible to obtain in connection with the new aging process. We will return to the rest of the pension negotiations in the New Year, which will take place in Stortinget on the basis of the representative proposal submitted jointly by the Progress Party and SV. I understand that someone is frustrated by this, and perhaps especially SV, as promised, while the Progress Party delivers. So we've been able to deliver 2.7 billion. through two negotiations with the government parties to strengthen the status of pensioners, through both an income development at the level of employees in general and an extraordinary increase for single minimum pensioners. It is a start, and we continue, as I said, the negotiations in the new year. It is also nice that we could use some unused Oslo money to reduce tolls for drivers in both the West and the North. It was a pot that the City Council parties in Oslo said no to, although it also contained money for collectives. Then we can use them elsewhere in the country, and that's good district policy. All the way, really good Christmas to the president, and really good Christmas to the Stortinget!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1939	I notice that representatives from the government parties and the support party The Progress Party is using a lot of energy to produce it as if someone were now bringing new gifts and new bets at the summit of 2020 – for example, this crisis support. It's good that at least 250 million came. kr, which is to go out to municipalities that are severely affected by high unemployment. We support that, but it is presented as a new initiative on the part of Stortinget. In the balance of the budget that we are now going to make, one adds that the oil-corrected deficit is approx. 72 B.C.E. kr less than that due to the fact that we had completed the revision of the national budget this summer. One important reason for this is that the payments made by the aid schemes with which the Stortinget has contributed and with which the Central Party has been an active player in order to contribute to strengthening have not been in the vicinity of what has been granted. An important reason for this is how the arrangements have been set up. Several actors have followed, and as new press conferences have been held and new packages have been coming, one has gone in and looked at it, and has seen that with the conditions under which the aid schemes were implemented, one was left with a very low payment – not because one did not need support, not because one was not hard hit, but because the conditions that were introduced made it very little support that came out. An example is the business compensation scheme, where it was originally set at 50 billion. kr for two and a half months, and as in the new age we are now going to treat, is set to 7 billion. kr for the whole period from March until now. There would have been an advantage if one could listen to some of the proposals that have come to change and improve the compensation scheme, in order to add more costs so that more companies could get a little better through the crisis, and that fewer were at risk of going bankrupt — for example by including more costs, such as some unavoidable wage-cost schemes. Commodities could be included, and one could have provided for the elimination of the completely meaningless distinction established between those as tenants and leases and those who own their own business. I also hear that one feels the need to highlight how much the government parties and the support party the Progress Party has done for the pensioners. There may also be reason to read what is stated in the proposition that you yourself delivered to the Storting and that is being dealt with today, in the case of 2020. It says on page 11: ‘Overall, the cost of old-age pensions is reduced by about 3 billion. crowns from the balanced budget.’» That's what's the fait accompli of the country's pensioners for the current year. The centre party supports an increase in the minimum pension, which will be paid once in the next year, but in addition, at a much earlier date, one should also have made sure to have a new pension regulation system, an average of wage and price increases. Unfortunately, the government parties and the party supporting the Progress Party are not included on proposals related to it in this vote either. Short to last a couple of other arrangements that are also here. Extra money has been received for the aquaculture sector. Initially, it was budgeted that one would get in approx. 5 B.C.E. kr. Now you get 1 in 2 billion. Add kr. After the previous distribution key, 80 pst. are relocated to communities around Norway, municipalities and counties. What the government parties and the supporting party here decide is that all the extra money, the 2 billion. kr, shall remain in the treasury. We think it's unwise. Instead, one should distribute that money to the communities around Norway. I would like to take up with it the proposals of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1959	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1964	Older pensioners have lost purchasing power over several years as a result of the pension reform, and there is evidence that the poor purchasing power development will continue in the years to come. Therefore, the SV and the Progress Party are now proposing to change the regulation of the pension with effect from 2020, so that pensioners do not lose purchasing power as long as employees do not. We could have adopted this and fixed it today. It would have ensured that the pensioners were safe. Nevertheless, the other parties would not be in it, nor would the Progress Party, who brought a drag to SV in his post that the Progress Party delivers. Well, I'm not sure if they would have had that room to deliver on it, it wouldn't have been because we've worked together here and made suggestions together. This issue, which concerns the regulation of pensions, is going to come back to us in the consideration of the document 8 proposal that SV and the Progress Party have promoted together. However, what we have succeeded in doing here is increasing the minimum pension for the same people by a further NOK 4000 for 2020. It is a very important contribution to helping to combat poverty among the elderly. I think it is obvious that the majority here explicitly states that this increase should not have a lasting effect. Let's be clear: SV will provide a lasting boost for lone minimum pensioners. We will come back to that in the consideration of our proposal for spring. Then SV also proposes an extra Christmas contribution to unemployed and social welfare recipients. It ‘will not help people out of the coronary crisis’, said the representative, Mr Kapur, in his speech. I think we in this room should be quite careful to germinate by the significance of some extra thousand patches to people who have poor advice now, to people who are poor. The Korona crisis is going to increase differences in Norway. More are going to be poor. SIFO recently fixed it. It will take a long time to correct the distortions created by the coronary crisis. Providing some extra thousand copies now is highly targeted to counteract this increase in poverty and stimulate demand in the economy. I think it is very strange that we did not succeed in creating a majority for this proposal and that the Progress Party does not vote in favour of a proposal that they have previously promoted for many years. It is difficult to understand why this year might not be the most important year in which to promote and vote for such a proposal. Nor is it true, as the representative Kapur said, that all extraordinary income hedge schemes are being extended. Some of those who now have no job will no longer receive a daily allowance. The additional supplement in housing support that SV was given in place in some of our crisis packages is now disappearing in the New Year. I was invited to study with company owners in a debate earlier today. I can return that invitation and bring some of the representatives to talk to some of the people who have received extra supplements in the housing support. It has been a very loving contribution. From March, the unemployed will lose thousands of dollars when the rates are regulated again. How big would the difference and the intrusion into the economy be for people if the SV and the other red-green parties had not been able to get an impact on more social arrangements in the crisis packages that have been treated in ours? There is no doubt that the main concern of the government parties and the majority is to save the capitalist owners. There have been systematic proposals for cuts in wealth taxes, systematic reluctance to make social demands in the major state crisis packages, while there has been an SV and the opposition parties that have, over and over again, had to fight through measures that ensure common people, most people, a security in the biggest economic crisis that has hit the country for very many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1981	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e1986	We have come to the end of what has been a very dramatic year, with a situation of 200,000 unemployed. A lot of businesses are struggling hard, and it's going to take time before you get another economy that's healthy. We have to take responsibility in the situation we are now going into. We're going to cut emissions, we're going to take care of nature, and we're going to facilitate a green shift that the country needs over the years to come. There have been many measures throughout the year — and large-scale measures. It's been in the order of 67.3 billion. kr, income insurance schemes for persons have been of the order of 15th billion. kr and other compensation schemes, SEK 11,1 billion. kr. In this new age, too, there are new measures, and I would like to highlight at least two of them. One is 60 million. kr to cultural institutions which must keep completely or partially closed, and the other is 25 million. kr targeted at vulnerable groups in Christmas. But what I've spent the most time in the last few weeks, together with the other government parties and also with an agreement with the Progress Party, is looking at a system that can be aimed at the outdoor industry – the outdoors, the restaurants that are now really struggling – around the country. The outdoor industry is struggling severely as a result of the rules on infectious diseases introduced in many cities and surrounding municipalities. For many, the situation is quite acute, and I'm very happy that we're giving 250 million today. kr to these. So we're going to get 250 million. SEK to municipalities that have increased unemployment, together with 53 municipalities, very varied – from Værøy and Røst as the smallest and all the way up to the largest: Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger. It has been challenging to find a system where the money can be allocated quickly enough, because they are in such an acute situation, but I believe we have found a good solution by allocating the money to municipalities that have increased unemployment, but distributed by population and with great flexibility in how the municipalities can continue working with the funds they are now receiving, and that they get before the general compensation scheme starts with payments in the new year. I hope the municipalities now quickly get systems in place to pay out funds to the companies that need it the most. In Moss they have already made the decisions, and in Bergen I know that they are working very specifically to find a system that can get the money out quickly. I really hope that the City Council here in Oslo, where the situation is most serious for most businesses, is also striving to find solutions, preferably in cooperation with other municipalities, like Bergen, which are in a similar situation, to get these funds out to the companies that need it the most, as quickly as possible. It's been a dramatic year. We're in a difficult situation with the rest of the world. We have to solve it, while addressing the major problems the world is facing, by cutting emissions, taking care of nature, getting a green shift. I am pleased that we are also able to use this effusion to provide concrete measures aimed at some of the companies that have the most difficulty right now, the outdoor industry. Then we have to get the funds out, so that they give a real effect now – before Christmas, before New Year, and before the general compensation scheme is in place. With that I also wish everyone a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2010	I can also refer to the article by the rapporteur, Mr Kapur. Many of the proposals put forward in a proposal for a representative were taken directly into account in the ageing process. That's why we have created a common position, and so it was also good that the committee leader went through it, in a good way. We are now balancing a budget where the changes have been significant, yes, historic, because 2020 has been a completely different year. It's been a very special year. The coronary apathy has had major international consequences, and he has had great consequences in Norway, both for individuals and for businesses, and how we've handled it, is something we're going to be measured on. The premise for the budget agreed in 2019 has been changed quite sharply, and in meeting it has a very strong fiscal response. Since 12 March 2020, we have made seven rounds, including the proposals in the newly aged budget, major financial measures to counter the consequences of the pandemic and of the disease prevention measures. This has been necessary in the situation in which we are. At the same time, lower activity in the economy has led to a decline in the revenue of the state, and the consequence of this is also that the budgetary balance for 2020 is very weak. It has been working on the financial measures in three phases. The first phase is about the urgent measures to secure income, and it is about ensuring that the viable companies that were framed were viable and got out of that crisis. In the second phase, one has tried to be more concrete and has managed to come up with measures against individual industries and businesses and households that have been particularly hard frameworks, and this has been necessary to compensate both businesses and people for loss of income. And the third phase of the handling is about when we're going to raise our eyes and manage to deal with some of the major challenges that we're going to face as a society when pandemic waves are over. So I think – when we now have a general compensation scheme again – that all the three phases and means we have developed there have been picked up again. It's done that we have a toolbox that we're lucky with and thankful for that we have and that we're going to use in a wise way. When we're going to get Norway out of this crisis, it's important that we also have a look at some of the big challenges that we're going to be able to deal with when we're going to have a direction out of the crisis. It's about investing in knowledge, and it's about investing in conversion, in viable businesses, and not least that we can manage climate crisis. There I also mean, when one sees Norway climbing on the Climate Change Performance Index, that there are some things going in the right direction. But like the crisis management: it's a lot that's been good, and I also think we should be honest that not everything has been perfect. But we've handled it in a good way, which means that Norway has made a good comparison with many other countries, when we've both managed to deal with the health situation and managed to build on a welfare society where there is trust between people and authorities. Not least, we have been lucky who is a commodity producing country, where we have had good prices for several of the commodities that are important to Norway, for Norwegian jobs and for the activity around our country. Now, in the new age that we're doing, there's a couple of changes that get multiples. We're going to have a payment for the municipalities with the highest unemployment rate of 250 million. kr. It is an important contribution, and I hope and expect – I actually think I should say – that the municipalities will follow this up in a way that will benefit companies. Then you can't suggest Christmas gifts and extra contributions to Christmas for some groups of pluralities. It is such that if the Stortinget had agreed, they would not have been paid before Christmas, and it is also such that several of the proposals had probably taken up significant procedural capacity in Nav, which also the Stortinget has become aware of during the year in which we have been in. Finally, let me – it is always a little dangerous to say ‘end’, and I may well have to draw back during the debate, but I think it is in my place to thank the Stortinget and the parties at Stortinget have managed to work together for a lot of important actions during this year. It's a force, and we'll be grateful for that. Then we now have a situation where we can disagree, where we can have rough and good debates both in this room and outside. I think we should thank you for that too, and I think that's a good thing, because it shows that we've at least managed to deal with the most acute things about the crisis. So we're still going to have a good debate on what's the right way out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2033	Ever since the Korona crisis came in March, through the crisis package on the crisis package, we have been on to ensure a very important issue, namely that the billion bill for this crisis is distributed fairly. If it were up to Red, we would now have a proper and reinforced safety net without all the unsocial holes that the government is unfortunately leaving behind. We had not failed the long-term unemployed or the recipients of redundancy payments that the government now chooses to let sail its own sea. Where the Advance Party and the government have chosen to spend billions of dollars both to cut the property tax and to lower the price of a pint from NOK 28 to NOK 26,50, we would provide a real crisis package for workers where we secured more money for the unemployed, also for those who were unemployed before the Korona crisis broke out. We had given those who have been unemployed, a holiday supplement next year rather than another summer of great economic concern, and we had extended and strengthened the schemes that ensure income for the unemployed, for those who do not have a regular job, people who work part-time, freelancers, self-employed and cultural workers, and not least those who live on redundancy payments. We had speeded up the big shift of the Norwegian economy with more money into environmentally friendly investments that ensure new jobs, and we had not let the municipalities live in uncertainty as to whether they get enough resources to avoid cutting people's welfare. Also, red would not have cut the property tax for rich shareholders, as the government does in an unusually unsocial moment even to them to be, and we would not, of course, have allowed large corporate owners or property barons almost unrestricted access to the state rescue packages, without as much as a single requirement for a dividend limit or a requirement for a cut in the rent. We now see that very many smaller businesses – cafes, restaurants, small businesses – are struggling badly, even because they are not getting any cuts in the rent even if they receive state rescue packages financially. In fact, Red proposed that the lessors with companies receiving state aid for crisis should also be involved in the effort, contribute to the fissure layer, by being imposed a cut of between 10 p.m. and 30 pst. in rent. The fact that that proposal was voted down by Stortinget was unusually unwise and is a direct reason why more people now labor more heavily than they would have had to do if the landlords too had to join the fissure layer. The Progress Party then said that the market would settle – in its naive belief in the invisible hands of the market. It was just customs, of course. We saw that nothing solved, and it does not unless the Storting now takes responsibility and takes action. We see that this crisis, unfortunately, reinforces Difference Norway, like many other previous crises. We now see that hundreds of thousands of people have lost much of their income, while the wealth of many of the country's richest only continues to grow, well assisted by government and the cuts of the Progress Party in taxes for the richest. Much would have been different if it had been up to Red and not to the bourgeois majority parties, of course. Red, of course, supports the proposals today to set aside money for social assistance or daily allowances to be paid to anyone who is receiving social assistance, as an extra NOK 1000 as a Christmas contribution at the end of the year. We are also in favour and will vote in favour of the proposal to give the minimum pensioners a very intrusive boost. It was just supposed to be missing. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter and will naturally also wish everyone at Stortinget a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2050	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2055	2020 is a year that will enter the history books. That's the year when the coronary pandemic led Norway into the worst health and economic crisis since World War II. It is the year when kindergartens and schools were closed and one in seven workers were on leave or unemployed. It is the year when very many people had to work, study and go to school from home and digital meetings with colleagues and family became the new normal. The pandemic has had major economic consequences and made extensive financial measures necessary. Since 12 March, the government has presented seven package of measures including the proposals in the newly aged budget to ensure income for those who were outsourced and unemployed, to save as many jobs as possible and to get Norway safely through the crisis. The total amount of crisis measures for the year as a whole is estimated at 131 billion. kr. Such a scale of crisis measures has no historical comparison, at least not in modern times. At the same time, lower activity in the economy has reduced the income of the country and increased the cost of daily allowances to the unemployed and outsourced. Overall, it has contributed to a sharp deterioration in the budget balance in 2020 and the use of oil money far higher than in normal years. We now expect an oil money consumption of 393 billion. kr. That's 2 billion. kr lower than the estimates we presented in the State budget for 2021. But it's almost 150 billion. kr more than what we saw in the aged budget last fall, and equals 3.9 pst. by State pension funds abroad. The budget time pulse is estimated to be 4,5 pst. That's the highest budget impulse we've ever measured since we started the calculations in 1970. It has been right and necessary to spend a lot of money to counteract the negative consequences of the pandemic and the infectious diseases. The alternative would be major challenges for health services and municipalities, more bankruptcies and lost jobs and probably higher long-term costs of the crisis. We're lucky to have a large amount of public wealth and a flexible rule of action that makes it possible to spend more money to fight crises. At the same time, it is important that the use of money comes back to normal when the situation in the Norwegian economy returns to normal. We have to save in good time to be able to use more when the next crisis comes. And we have to avoid future generations being stuck with too much of the bill. We're not back to normal yet, but there are several points of light. We effectively repressed the first wave of infection with comprehensive infectious diseases and economic measures. It has contributed to Norway being among the countries that have so far been most successful through the crisis, both health and economically. Now we're about to knock down the second wave of infection. We have learned a lot throughout the year and meet this wave of infection with more experience like individuals, businesses and authorities. We have found better ways to deal with the new everyday life. Economic measures will be maintained for the duration of the crisis. But these have to play a part in the fight against infectious diseases. When the infection is high and the measures to protect infection are strict, compensation is needed, but when the infection goes down and the measures to prevent infection are facilitated, other types of measures may be needed to promote activity and job creation. The government is now working on different measures that should be adapted to the situation beyond winter and spring. The 2020 budget was really going to be tight. It was supposed to be a responsible budget for a leap year for the Norwegian economy. It did not fall into force, but the budget was equally fully responsible. Without comprehensive economic measures, the crisis could become much more serious. Today there are twelve days left of 2020, and we can look ahead. There's good reason to expect that we have better times to meet. The good vaccine news gives hope that life can soon return to the more normal in the course of 2021. In the meantime, I would like all to have a really good Christmas – and a great thank you to the presidency, to the finance committee and other big business representatives and to the administration, who have gone a long way towards the Stortinge being able to make good decisions through this very special year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2079	The re-balancing of the 2020 budget shows that the tax revenue has been adjusted well and well by 5 billion. kr, and this is not least due to a stronger increase in VAT and excise duties on alcohol and tobacco than was previously expected. It's not that unnatural. Now we do everything at home, and the boundaries are closed. In the budgetary agreement with the Government Parties, the Progress Party has achieved a significant reduction in border-related charges. The question for the Minister of Finance is: does the development we have seen now with completely closed borders, and when the borders are reopened, but with greatly reduced charges, is there reason to believe that they may not weaken the country's total income from excise duties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2084	At least we agree with the hope that we can gradually reopen the boundaries. There is no desired situation with closed borders. We want an open Nordic and Europe. I hope that the tax reductions we have agreed on can contribute to the purchase of more goods in Norway, even after the crisis. But there is no doubt that the fees we have, also have a health page, which we have to take into account, and that is a question of income to the state. I believe that we have found good solutions in the compromise and budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, but we want to maintain the fees at such a level that we also take the health side into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2091	I'm trying to get a grip on why the government parties and the supporting party, the Progress Party, do not want to help make a Christmas contribution both to those who go on the day-to-day, and to social welfare recipients. In the context of the ejaculation, it is described that the cost of daily allowances is reduced by nearly 5 billion. kr because a lower proportion of those who become unemployed is entitled to a daily allowance than is the case in the past. Why isn't one willing to either make sure that more people can get a day's money, or at least be willing to give both those who go on a day's payroll, and those who are on social welfare, a greeting to Christmas by saying that you can get a little extra?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2096	I think we should be happy that there has not been as bad a Norwegian economy as we feared at some point. Norway is among the countries in the world that have so far come out of it best, both in terms of health and in terms of economics. It appears that there are only two countries in Europe — Turkey and Lithuania — that have a smaller fall in the economy than we do this year. When it has not been used as much money as it was at one time added up to, it is due to, among other things. That it hasn't gone as bad as we feared. Then the budget's ageing is a last adjustment to the budget at the end of the year. It is not meant as a new round of budget. Now we have met the Progress Party on a couple of points, but in terms of both the minimum pension and the SV's proposal on money for social assistance recipients, it will not be possible to pay it until far out in the New Year, so it's a 2021 case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2103	For those affected, who are severely affected by the crisis, and who are now in the situation that they either become unemployed or go to social assistance, it is clear that that contribution will help even if the money does not come here and now. By just knowing that the money is coming, one might also have the opportunity to spend a little more money now in connection with Christmas in a very tight budget. My question was on the ejaculation, not in all sorts of other areas. So one reduces the cost of daily allowances as a result of the fact that there are several of those who are now unemployed who are not entitled to a daily allowance. Why is one not willing to do anything about it, either by saying that more people are going to get paid, or by being able to make a Christmas contribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2110	The question of whether more than one person should be entitled to a daily allowance is not a question of new age. We also need to stick to some budgetary principles in a period of crisis. The revaluation is the last adjustment to the budget at the end of the year, and the starting point shall be money that can be paid before the New Year. There may then be different views and different desires for the regulation, both for permitting and for who is to be entitled to daily allowances, but it is not a matter of new age.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2116	The outdoors employ thousands of people and create lives and diversity in our communities, but now businesses are closed or have very fewer guests than usual. It goes against the bankruptcy of many, and some have already given the loss, unfortunately, pending the compensation scheme from the government, which is not paid until February. SV has proposed urgent payments, but the government parties vote it down and refer to the emergency loan scheme that has been put in place. But do you have an emergency loan? That's an important question. I asked the industry at home in the Lower Glomma region, Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad, and the answer was no. They didn't know a single example, because in a normal situation they don't have enough profit to pay on such a loan. So my question to the Council of State is, what does he want to say to those companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2125	I'm talking to a lot of companies, and I've spent a lot of time in this fall. In fact, it is absolutely vital for me, as Minister of Finance, to be close to – close to the social partners, LO, NHO, Working, close to big businesses, close to small businesses, and we listen to them. Now I don't know what the representative wants when he talks about emergency loans. I guess that's the loan guarantee scheme. We've adjusted it so that the assumption is that you don't have to have any profits in 2019 to qualify, and then it's the bank that has to assess whether it's right to make loans. We have also said that possible compensation can be taken into account, which will be paid in January when the scheme expires on 18 January. But let me also say that we can rejoice that unemployment has actually fallen in December. There were many who feared that with the second wave of infection it would go up sharply, but so far unemployment has fallen during the December month.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2134	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2141	The central party is responsible for an overall pension policy with obligations and rights. Lifetime in Norway is increasing, and we are approaching one million pensioners in the country. The pensioners represent a great, important and positive opportunity for our country. The pensioners are not a problem. The pension reform implies an increase in the usual retirement age. In order to get full pension rights, the pension is adjusted according to the age of 67, and we have to work when we get older in numbers because we have better health over time. Pensioners are relatively in a better form than they were in the past to provide in working and social life. The centre party is basically in agreement with the fact that work creates values and improvements when it is wisely managed and organised, and we are therefore strong supporters of facilitating that the pensioners who want and have health skills can work longer. For example, the centre party supports legislative changes to increase the general age limit in the country from 70 to 72 years. However, in order for this to be attractive, it is necessary to remove the coordination framework. This is the coordination of the age pension of the population and public occupational pensions of those working in government beyond the age of 67. These people today may lose their entire public service pension if they continue in public service until they are about 72 years of age. Only the Red and SV support the Centre Party in this demand, which is supported by all the national trade unions and the Pensionist Association. The Pensioners Association is the largest pensioner organisation and has local teams all over the country. The local team of the Pensioners Association is doing a great job through voluntary work in the municipalities and urban areas, and the Centre Party is strongly committed to further developing this. This cooperation, between the municipal and public welfare services and non-profit institutions, to which the Pensioners' Association is an example, is incredibly important, and it is one of the trademarks of the Centre Party. The cooperation of pensioners' associations and municipalities must therefore be further developed at grassroots level, and it must grow from below and be fertilised from above, by elected peoples with an overall community view. Therefore, the Centre Party will further stimulate the Pensioners Association with the possibility of rights connected with obligations. The centre party is in favour of the Pensioners' Association being given the right to negotiate with the State on the social security settlement. We are in favour of them participating in the Technical Calculation Committee, because it gives a thorough insight into the common number material used in the tariff negotiations. And we're in favour of the Pensioners' Association being given the opportunity to attend government contact committee meetings. The centre party is in favour of the pension being regulated by an average of the wage and price increases. That means that the pensions get a smoother development, and that gives more predictability. And a pot must be set aside for the pension negotiations decided by the Stortinget, which can be used for policy-sharing measures, for example. increasing the minimum pensions for the solitude and incentive of non-profit employment in municipalities. That's why we're supporting what's happening now on the basic pensions of pensioners. It's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2158	In the nutrition debate earlier today, we heard a tremendous care and love for the richest of the country. With this government, those who have the most will get more. Then it is premature to see that the right side will not help to make a Christmas contribution to those who may have had it tough this year. In Trøndelag, there were 6,715 unemployed in November. That's an increase of 36 pst. since February this year – since the pandemic met us with full strength. To the Address Newspaper today, the representative Sivert Bjørnstad from the Progress Party says that adding extra payments for someone would create an unfortunate precedent. An unfortunate precedent – where was the concern of an unfortunate precedent when the Progress Party before the summer helped to bring huge tax relief to oil directors? Why should the concerns of the unfortunate precedent frame those who have the least, and never the ones who have the most? The size could have ended this heresy year with something positive for those who have taken the toughest consequences of the coronary apathy. We could together make a Christmas contribution to the unemployed and to those receiving social assistance, and to their families, a contribution of NOK 1000 per adult and NOK 1000 per child. Those who have the worst advice from before are also the ones who get the worst in a time of crisis. We all know about the purchase press this Christmas. It's sad to be the parent who can't meet the expectations either of himself or of her children. We could have done that today to correct a little bit, and it's not too late to vote for SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2169	That's about. 250000 people who need a day’s allowance or social assistance. Many have lost their jobs and have no opportunity in Corona time to get a new job. That's about. 110000 children living in a family who need a day’s allowance or social assistance. I believe that no parents should have to tell their children: Nissen is not coming because we can't afford to buy you a gift. There's power in this hall. We decide whether or not families and children who have to spend the day's money and social assistance are going to get a Christmas present. For me, it's of course that we have to do it. We're in a pandemic. Many have lost their jobs, and I think many in this room know at least one person who has lost his job. The proposal to give a Christmas present to those in need of financial assistance costs 350 million. kr. On Thursday, the right-wing parties and the Progress Party voted to cut 388 million. to hospitals. The aid package will cost less than those saved as they cut the appropriations for the hospitals on Thursday. The size has given 8 billion. kr to the oil industry, which SV of course voted against. This proposal, to help those who need the most, is just 4.4 pst. of the oil package, which the right parties, the Working Party and the Centre Party gave. There's power in this hall. I ask the Progress Party to support the proposal so that everyone can have an OK Christmas. If the Progress Party supports SV's proposals, we will have a majority. Then these parents don't have to say that the daemon doesn't come this year. Merry Christmas to everyone! We make 1 million. kr per year. We can buy a lot of gifts for all the kids we have in the family. I hope you will also help the others, who don't have 1 million. kr per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2186	2020 has been a very strange year, and if 2021 gets even more strange, we have trouble with the whole crowd. The way we've dealt with the crisis, we already see it now, has reinforced the developments that we've seen over time with increasing differences in society. It's because the government hasn't done enough to protect the groups that have started at least in society. The way we've handled the pandemic has also undermined the green shift. It was especially well illustrated with the large oil tax package, which has centered us in a further oil dependency ahead. The EU, for example: goes the opposite way, with the green deal - said from an SV. And then it has increased centralization. The government set down a NOU selection that made a very thorough analysis of developments in the district industries, and it shows that the pandemic is taking the strongest place on small and medium-sized enterprises. It's the ones that have the least equity and are the most deferred, and we find a lot of them in the districts. And as an illustration, five companies have received as much as 27,000 small businesses combined, which have made some researchers think that the compensation scheme is rigged for the rich and powerful. It comes to a point where the Storing has to ask itself the question, who are we for? Are we for the people who represent us, or is it unevenly distributed what effort we put in? And unfortunate precedents – 2020 is an unfortunate precedent in itself. The principle is hazardous throughout 2020. Holding on to the principle throughout this year – we are watering in violation of principle, we have to deal with what was to come, in the way that we had to. And now, when the Storting prepares for reconciliation and is going to vote down a handshake for the unemployed, those who are the hardest frame of the pandemic we now have, who most strongly notice the infectious measures we have now implemented, which are in the middle of it, and who are now entering a Christmas with bad advice – yes, then there is an illustration of who this government is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2195	The representatives here in the hall are probably impatient, home and take Christmas holidays, go home for good food, precious gifts. But there are a lot of people who don't enjoy Christmas this year, yes, more than before. The queues for the Salvation Army and the Church's City Mission are growing. Parents post ads on finn.no to ask for help, ask if there are anyone who can donate a gift that they can give to their kids. It's good to see people stand up for each other. The high trust and the strong community of people, the glue of society, is one of the best things about our country. However, almisses should be unnecessary, as in Norway all children have the right to a safe environment and a good growth. They shall not be dependent on asking for the charity of others. Every meter in line for the Salvation Army is a failure for the welfare state. Each finn.no advertisement requesting help is a failure statement. In the so-called hard work we've been doing over the last year, there's something that's failed. The security of income has not guaranteed everyone, and many have fallen through the holes in the social security network. Instead of making sure that everyone has a safe income to give their families an all-right Christmas, the government has referred the unemployed and others in crisis to the line of the Salvation Army – a government that operates with alms and indulgences. Therefore, SV proposes that the community set up with an extra small payment this year for the unemployed and those in need of social assistance, DKK 1000 for each plus DKK 1000 per child they have, so that everyone can afford some Christmas food and some gifts to the kids. So, we can actually be with people after a tough year. For comparison, the government's new cut in the wealth tax of the 1.3 billion rich is. kr. We could make the payment SV suggests, four times the same amount of money – four times. The money had not been jammed into fat bank accounts or into property, as the right-hand sponsors do with their tax gifts. No, it would have gone into the economy. It would have been used. Workers have borne the greatest burden in the economic crisis that has followed this pandemic. Now it's time to give back a little bit. So the representatives can go home and spend the good pay we get on gifts and food, maybe with a little bit more conscience. But no, that's the right-hand side down. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2206	I want to take the opportunity to wish Christmas to both the President, all the co-representatives and everyone from the government in the Chamber. I also hope, one last time, that the government parties and the party supporting the Progress Party will be able to reconsider whether one can support the proposal for a Christmas contribution to those who are recipients of the daily allowance and those who are social welfare recipients. I hear from both the Finance Minister and the Support Party that such a measure could now create an unfortunate precedent. But in this case, for example, the government parties and the Progress Party propose reducing the toll by 277 million. kr. This is a proposal supported by the Central Party. We agree. We also support the proposal for more money for the package tour operators, over 200 million. kr. But on both of those proposals it says 'can be transferred'. Why does it do that? Well, because there's money you can't fully use this year, probably most of them. This is about to give a Christmas contribution to some of those who are in the most demanding situation at the entrance to Christmas. It's not about creating precedent or not. This is about the seventh and last thing about political will. I would appeal to the Progress Party, which has previously promoted such a proposal, to vote in favour of it now. I also appeal to the government parties to vote in favour of that proposal. Finally, I also hope, although I have called for it earlier today and have not heard any feedback from the government, that the government can respond to the great demand that has come from both employee organisations, employers' organisations and a number of those who are licensed around Norway, to provide predictability and to say that the period of leave should be extended at least until the summer. It's about the uncertainty and uncertainty that people are sitting and feeling, and at the entrance of Christmas, one could do the situation at least a little less evil for some of those who are the hardest hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2217	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2230	The size is ready to go to voting. Now, with attention, this vote has to go as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2241	Case No. 1 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to legislation 62. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2255	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-22, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 23 and 24, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 25, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 26 and 27, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 28, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 29–31, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 32, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to Decision No. 203 of 7 December d.a. and letters from the Council of State dated 15 December d.o.b., requesting the Government to immediately abolish the temporary extension of the wolf zone and launch a licence hunt.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2294	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29–31, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all unbundled funds under the Innovation Norway Schemes in 2019 are shifted from petroleum to other industries.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of marketing requirements for advanced biofuels for shipping’.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a new model for the award of concessions in the aquaculture sector where prices are being removed or reduced and where sustainability is being competed instead. In doing so, emission-free installations and electrification shall be required.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2323	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Advancement Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reconsider the criterion that organisations that receive State aid from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food budget should communicate positive attitudes to the agricultural and food sector.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2340	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for changes to the Tax Fund scheme in order to release funds for the scale programme for major investments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2356	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, within the framework of the Maritime Directorate, to provide funds for a national maritime safety improvement campaign where volunteering is mobilised along the coast.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2373	There is a vote on proposal No. 25, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop the sale of state forest.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2390	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the CO 2 compensation scheme for the fishing fleet and, in the context of proposals for the State budget for 2022, provides an assessment and an impact assessment of the impact of possible wind-up of the scheme on climate objectives and fisheries policy issues.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2408	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider extending the GIEK’s power guarantee scheme to battery production and other power-intensive industries.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2425	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 10, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take urgent action to initiate dialogue between the parties in order to find good solutions to require the conversion of the offshore fleet. In particular, stricter requirements for the use of low and zero emission technologies shall be considered.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to entrust Enova with the task of establishing a plan for the use of battery packs on the largest possible offshore vessels by the end of 2022.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e2449	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, 9 and 11–22, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government quickly, and no later than the spring of 2021, to assess the introduction of requirements for simplified publicity obligations for public acquisitions, known as "Mini Doffin".» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with information showing the consequences of the transfer of Altinn from Brønnøsund to the Digitalisation Directorate for the Brønnøsund registers and the labour market in Brønnøsund.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 4 of the NIS Act so that it is not possible by regulation to derogate from the principle that ships registered in the Norwegian international ship register are not allowed to carry cargo or passengers between Norwegian ports or to board a regular route with passengers between Norwegian and foreign ports.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide concrete arrangements for export promotion contributions in connection with the presentation of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that work on the review of instruments is resumed so that proposals for amendments can be addressed by the autumn of 2021 at the latest. The review must have as its primary objective that modified instruments should ensure new, sustainable export revenues based on the production of goods and services in Norway.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the State guarantee of the Travel Guarantee Fund may be provided by extending the guarantee framework in GIEK.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking to come back with measures to increase the production of advanced biofuels in Norway.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make rapid proposals to ensure that the conversion of ships and ships, within the framework of the EEA Agreement, receives maximum allowable support for low and zero emission technologies.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that county municipalities are compensated in the income system for the additional cost of using zero-emission technologies in the transport sector.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the letter of assignment to mandate Enova to ensure that hydrogen development projects in ferries and fast boats can apply for aid.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that funds granted to support the maritime sector are allocated as much as possible to projects in Norway, by imposing strict HMS requirements, requirements for apprentices, etc.’.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for an industry-specific grant scheme for the gambling industry’. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an extension of the mandate of the GIEK/Export Credit to allow for financing of domestic conversion projects, including climate change projects, which could increase export opportunities.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present as soon as possible an overall issue on future fisheries control.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a model for an agricultural climate fund and to return to the Stortinget with such a proposal as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to evaluate the conversion of the regional presence of the Veterinary Institute.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with its own case on the external audit of the Food Authority and its follow-up by the government.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a separate case on how to renew milk production premises so that milk production can continue for small and medium-sized uses throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget showing how Statskog SF can invest in further processing forest industry in Norway and contribute to more industrial construction and industrial development also locally in the areas where Statskog SF owns properties.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case that ensures that any arrondering sale benefits many local forest owners and does not end up as a buy-in of speculation and concentration of ownership of companies or stakeholders living elsewhere than where the forest is located.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e7523	Behind the setting are the governmental parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e7556	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 2-4, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision agrees to reduce allowances to depositors, members of the government and prime minister by 20 pst. with effect from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2021, pending the examination of the report of the Committee on Remuneration.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e7583	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how much needs to be invested in the Norwegian economy in order for Norway to meet its commitments in 2030 under the Paris Agreement, including the level of additional demand compared to the current level of public and private green investment, and to return to this level at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose an amendment to the mandate of the State Bond Fund with a view to promoting capital for green investment, and to return therewith to the Stortinget during the first quarter of 2021.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e7607	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for different compositions of loan transactions and transfers from SPU in the State budget with a view to impact on the state’s assets, the krone price, monetary policy, a well-functioning sovereign bond market and financial stability’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e7624	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to report on the number and type of enterprises that have received loans under the Loan Guarantee Facility under the revised National Budget 2021. The report shall include an evaluation of the bank's profit margin on the State-guaranteed loans.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e10842	Behind the setting are the governmental parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e10863	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Environment Party of the Greens and the Reds proposal No 3, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 4-8, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 10, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 12 and 14, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 5800 Government pension funds abroad 50 Transfer from the Fund shall be increased by: 179 922 987 000 from NOK 241 084 213 000 to NOK 421 007 200 000 ’;» ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e10969	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1330 Rewards for urban grant schemes 66 may be transmitted, increased by: 598 000 000 from NOK 2 114 500000 to NOK 2712 500000’» ‘... The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11049	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 5800 Government pension funds abroad 50 Transfer from the Fund shall be increased by: 177 456 171,000 from NOK 241 084 213 000 to NOK 418 540 384 000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11128	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 5800 Government pension funds abroad 50 Transfer from the Fund shall be increased by: 179 578 742 000 from NOK 241 084 213 000 to NOK 420 662 955 000 ’ ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11208	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1634 Compensation for loss of income caused by the outbreak of the virus 70 Strategies to remedy the liquidity situation are granted by: 750 000 000 ‘... Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11279	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 5800 Government pension funds abroad 50 Transfer from the Fund shall be increased by: 178 828 742 000 from NOK 241 084 213 000 to NOK 419 912 955000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11358	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 900 Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries 79 Compensation scheme for expenditure on statutory maintenance in seasonal holdings may be carried over, increased by: 119 500,000 from NOK 20 500000 to NOK 140000000 ‘... Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 2421 Innovation Norway 73 Supplemental scheme for package tour operators, increased by: 205,000,000 from NOK 195000000 to NOK 400000000 ‘... The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11513	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 5 and 7 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that current retirement pensions in 2020 are increased by average wage and price growth for 2020 from 1 May 2020 following a similar arrangement as in the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties for 2021. The government is asked to return to Stortinget with how this is implemented and paid after. The payment is a one-off payment; any continuation of the increase in pensions must be adopted in 2021.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that single minimum pensioners also receive an increased benefit in 2020 in the form of a non-taxable one-off amount of NOK 4000, and to ask the government to return to Stortinget accordingly. Any continuation of this appropriation as a permanent supplement of a minimum pension must be adopted in 2021.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 919 Miscellaneous fishing purposes 60 Grants to municipalities and counties are increased by: 1,534 816 000 from NOK 2 271 406 000 to NOK 3 806 222 ‘... The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11606	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 732 Regional health establishments 70 Specific grants may be carried over, may be used under items 21, 72, 73, 74 and 75 increased by: 388 119 000 from NOK 8 917 603 000 to NOK 9 305 722 000 ‘... Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e11689	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Builder’s allowance, increased by: 350 000 000 from NOK 143 332 846 000 to NOK 143 682 846 000 ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 2541 Day money 70 Appropriations for the day, estimates, are increased by: 180 000 000 from NOK 41 280000000 to NOK 41 460000000 ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e14425	It's over I and V. Behind the setting are the governmental parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e14441	It shall be added to II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e14451	It is added over IV. The setting is based on the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. Red has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-19.ana.ud126e14478	There is no Unit. Dear co-representatives! Every year we meet together for responsible big business, and 2020 has largely required that we live up to this. I thank all the representatives and party groups for their good and responsible cooperation in 2020. I also thank Storting's administration, which has handled the changed everyday life very professionally. It has helped to ensure that our important parliamentary work has been carried out, even if we had to do a lot different than planned. It is right to extend a thank you from Stortinget to the government for good cooperation in the year we are behind, and I would also like to thank the media for their important efforts in 2020. Now when we go into the Christmas season, the thoughts of the many who are particularly hard hit by the pandemic go. Nor do we forget the great tasks ahead of us when society is to be reopened and normalised and life and health ensured in 2021. We met again in Stortinget on Monday 11 January. Now we're taking a long-awaited Christmas holiday, but there's probably too many of us left to wash both the floor and carry on when we get home after a busy budget call. My wish is that you also pull the «crack off the glass» and breathe for a while. As I ask you all to sit for a few minutes, the Presidentship of the Storting will wish you all well home and a good and peaceful Christmas with these beautiful sounds from the gallery. - The meeting's been cancelled.
