ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e72	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 9 and 10 on today's map have not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objections have been raised — and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 6 is treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e156	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e163	On behalf of the Workers' Party, I can join the government's mention of the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy: on NATO and the EEA Agreement, on the importance of the UN, international law and effective international cooperation. If the government change next autumn, there will be no revolutionary changes in the course of Norwegian foreign policy. It is an advantage for a country like Norway. But a great deal of consensus also brings some disadvantages. Because with broad consensus, there is often too little discussion about foreign policy choices. It is often the outermost parties that define the framework for discussion and the disagreements between the two major government options are too poorly addressed. For in reality, there is much greater foreign policy consensus in this Chamber – there is more disagreement within the government coalition and the Progress Party, that is, the bourgeois block, than there is between the Right and the Labour Party. I have therefore been surprised that in a number of discussions in this Chamber there has been a growing trend among my colleagues in the Right Party that they are almost being turned around and are to have asked for criticism from the Workers' Party. It's kind of unheard of. But we who live and breathe for political discussion should be eager to come up with the inequalities. Those who don't like political discussion are usually tired of ruling. Yes, it is indeed our democratic task to find out to the voters what political disagreements exist in this budget. Nine months before the next major elections, I would therefore like to highlight five areas in which the Workers' Party will give a different priority to today's government. The first is the northern regions. Much changes in the world, but geography is constant, and the very name 'Norway' just means 'the road to the north'. The Nordic regions mean a great deal to our entire country, and therefore the construction and maintenance of peace and stability in the northern regions of Norway is the most important peace project. Not because the northern regions are affected by unrest, but because peace and stability do not come about by themselves. Our friendship with Russia must be based on cooperation and dialogue, firmness and predictability. We are dependent on allies, but the defence must be able to assert Norwegian sovereignty over our own land and sea areas, and we must be able to contribute to low voltage in our neighbourhoods by acting clearly, predictablely and calmly. This is the agreement. When American warships sailed near the Kola Peninsula this summer, the head of the Defense Operational Headquarters warned against increased tension. This is a warning I think we should listen to. The balance between deterrence and tranquillity means that when we intensify one, we should balance by also increasing the other. The neighbourhood policy in the north is not, in itself, a safety policy tool, but cooperation across the north's borders has been, and is, an important contribution to low voltage in the north, not least through the people-to-people cooperation. That's why I think the government's cut in the allocations to the northern regions and Russia's cooperation is the wrong way to go. At least the working party will increase this item by 15 million. kr. The second is the cuts in the work to strengthen women's right to control their own bodies. Only in Mozambique have over 300,000 people lost access to contraception in recent years because of American cuts. I hardly know about something more important than giving women who have become pregnant against their own will, either through rape or by other means, access to safe abortions. We know from our own country that when we tighten up abortion legislation, it's not like the number of abortions goes down, but you get more unsafe abortions. The world over jobs conservative forces – many Muslim countries, in strong alliance with the Vatican – are active in reducing access to abortion and prevention, while organisations offering prevention and AIDS drugs have been severely cut off as a result of this policy. Norway should then go a different way. But no, over 250 million. The government was cut last year. So this year we ask, how are the appropriations for next year? Then we get no answer. But one thing we get is, one way to measure this is to look at the money of the UN Population Fund and the UN Aids Fund. Here, too, the government cuts, with over 100 million. kr. When other countries cut, Norway should escalate. Over the next eight years, the government has cut off prevention and safe abortions by over 700 million. kr. The Labour Party will take a different route and proposes to double Norway’s support for women’s right to determine their own body, an increase of almost 400 million. NOK for this important work in 2021. The third is the cuts of Palestinian children, schools and health services through UNRWA, where a Norwegian skilled diplomat has just been deployed as Vice-President. Here, too, the United States has cut. The cuts that have emerged from the budgetary agreement have received quite a lot of publicity in both the Palestinian and Israeli press. I also think it becomes clear when the Right in its programme implements a change in course in its Israel/Palestina policy, a change in course that the Foreign Minister will not even defend in the storeroom. Less education for Palestinian children leads to more extremism, not less. When the world turns attention away from Palestine, Norway should be there. Fourth, this government's spectacularly captivating investment in renewable energy in developing countries. In a strong growth aid budget, renewable energy investment is now a billion dollars lower in 2021 than in 2013. Since 2013, we have had the Paris Agreement. The poorest are hit hardest by climate change. Renewable energy is obviously an important climate action, but it is also a good development policy. Development and operation create jobs, and power supply is essential for the development of the economy and society. It's help for self-help. Renewable energy is also a field where Norway really has something to contribute, where we have competence, and where we have experience. From the Workers' Party we have much greater ambitions and will increase the investment in clean energy by 450 million. NOK 2021. And the fifth is: Today, more people are the most important single measure for us politicians in strengthening defence. It can increase the response capacity and also the endurance. Demanding times in business and working life, in civil aviation and in the maritime industry is also a golden opportunity for the Defence to bring in more skilled professionals. The government would only bet on 57 additional employees in the Defense for next year. In the treatment of the long-term plan, we increased the number to 300. That's an improvement. But the Workers' Party will go further. We have much higher ambitions for the defense over the next four years and are putting forward 500 million in our defence budget. kr extra for increased staffing as early as next year. It was the five areas where the Workers' Party will go a different way than the government. I hope we get an open and good debate. It is not a threat that is being deleted, but also a force for Norwegian foreign and defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e193	Would the representative Huitfeldt like to address the Workers' Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e198	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e203	The representative Anniken Huitfeldt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e208	At our best moments, we say that our foreign policy is based on clear priorities, that we carry out our obligations towards allies, and should be anchored in liberal values. But after listening to the first article, I wonder what the priorities were. I heard more of a Labour Party representative – engaged in this way – than I heard the chairman of a committee who also presents everything we agree on in Norwegian foreign policy. Then you can say that with a time-limited speaking time you want to focus on what divides, but I still think it was a wonderful mixture we got. To put it that way on behalf of the government parties, who have also promoted themselves as a clear bourgeois majority in this Chamber: we want to be a credible partner for NATO, who also contributes with its own defence capacity and ends up with the strategic concept of the alliance. That even means that we accept that the solidarity statement and the musketeer paragraph are also based on doing the job here, and that we also realize that we have an atomic umbrella over the strategic cooperation. We are also in favour of developing Nordic defence cooperation through NORDEFCO, but it can only supplement, not replace, our alliances with the United States and 22 EU countries participating in NATO. That is why it was so important that this Assembly wanted to extend its commitment to also participate in the European Defence Fund, which was established during the examination of the defence's long-term plan on 1 December. More than in the past, it is natural to deal with the foreign budget and the defence budget at the same time and in the same debate. We see the relationship between peace building and international commitment and security. And we also see, for our part of the world, how economic integration has built peace in our continent. That is why it is an offensive European policy – with Norwegian obligations too – to make the obligations of the contracting countries towards us effective, that is what is happening through the EEA Agreement and the other agreements Norway has with the EU. At the request of the previous Member State, the budget asks for a deeper understanding of what is understood with Norwegian interests. I am referring to the request decision No. 326 to the staging message, which meant a philological exersis that the government has now carried out and answered. The proposition defines Norwegian interests to include matters which are essential for the safety, well-being and economy of Norwegian citizens, directly or indirectly, and which are based on liberal values such as individual rights and freedoms, legal certainty and democracy. So far the government – and we agree with this. In short, this means that Norway’s best interest is to defend a global world order based on rule of law and democracy. That means that we are self-conscious and conscious of these values in dealing with authoritarian countries, whether it be China or Russia, and in different contexts. We heard this morning that maybe it's so that the mouthbands that we're now importing from China have been made and produced in what we would otherwise call prisoner camps for uighurs. That's why we have a lot to take care of in the international context, so we don't indirectly and without thinking about it supporting under oppressive structures. Then there is a question of whether such investigations and definitions can bring us somewhat closer to a common position between the parties in this Chamber. If you read the comments of the Center Party, I mean to see a nationalistic isolation as the ideal. The UN is properly worded, but it must be made up of strong nation states. The Central Party does not seem to have got what strong, self-conscious and self-reliant nation states have done to Europe before we got to the UN. We thus have good experience throughout the post-war period of economic integration, an integration that the Central Party opposes by all means by being against binding European cooperation, by undermining the EEA Agreement. But what may be more worrying is that the Workers' Party is also drifting here. They do not appear in these debates. They have almost a bad conscience to defend the EEA Agreement in many respects. So what then seems to be the foreign policy that was said to be firm, I think we can put a big question mark if the Workers' Party becomes a minority in a new majority where the majority is to cancel the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e227	The starting point for the Foreign Policy of the Progress Party is to safeguard Norwegian interests. For us, it means caring for and building strong relationships and alliances with like-minded countries, for example. through NATO. It also means ensuring good trading conditions and agreements serving the Norwegian economy and ensuring a stable framework for Norwegian international industries, such as maritime transport. The need to safeguard Norwegian interests means that we believe that Norway should not have been in the UN Security Council. Our consideration is that this position can put us in a difficult situation in a world of increasing major activisation. We are at risk of difficult dilemmas and conflicts, and it seems uncertain what the gain will be for the nation, in addition to the fact that it will probably be a useful experience to bring with it for the international service. Responsibility for self-responsiveness first lies with all countries, including developing countries. This is the background to the view of the Advance Party on aid. We believe it is the responsibility of each country to develop its own economies and societies and to secure the basic needs of the population, although, of course, it is sometimes very demanding and challenging. It is unsustainable that Norwegian tax money should go to schools and health measures when national authorities choose to spend money on private luxury or measures that do not benefit their own people at the same time. This is disclaimer from national authorities and does not create real, long-term development. Real development takes place only when the authorities themselves take the initiative and ownership to develop their own country. Unfortunately, we see this too little of it, with some honourable exceptions. Among these are Ghana, which has aid inadequacy and economic growth and development as a clear target. Norway is the world’s most shy country. We give the most sovereign assistance per capita. Norway is more than 50 pst. more than Sweden provides, and almost twice as much as Denmark provides assistance per capita. The high level of assistance is supported by almost all parties on the Stortinget. The progress party is the only party that won't turn off 1 pst. of GNI for assistance every year. Do we do this by evil will, because we don't want to help? Of course not, there are no fewer warm hearts in the Advance Party than in other parties, but where we stand out, we want to give a different priority. We know that there are tough priorities behind a government budget, and it's getting tougher in the years to come. Then aid cannot be the only area that is protected for cutbacks. Firstly, the aid rate should be cut to 0.7, which is the objective of the United Nations. This is in line with both Denmark and the United Kingdom. So we don't get any worse people for that reason. Cut in aid is an important objective for the Progress Party, and for which we fought hard in the negotiations on the budget. It turned out, however, to be completely impossible to achieve. What we have done, on the other hand, is to turn the aid around for the purpose we believe is particularly important in our time. Refugees and mass migration are among the major global challenges and put great pressure on the recipient countries and communities. We will – and can – help far more by providing more assistance in the neighbourhoods. The need for funding is great, and good solutions are needed for major refugee crises. It is therefore gratifying that we agreed with the government parties on more money to help in the neighbourhoods – both refugees and other disaster victims. We agreed to allocate 500 million. €300 million for the World Food Programme for Refugees in Nearby Areas. kr more to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and 100 million. More on the World Food Programme school programme in Sahel. I would also like to highlight the fact that we have increased the funding for food development and trade by 50 million. kr. The development of local business and trade is a very good use of aid because it has the potential to create high values. If businesses are established and developed in poor countries, this means thousands of new jobs, which in turn means incomes that benefit entire families and villages. It also means increased tax revenues to the country, which can be used again to develop services for the population. It is positive that we got cut for the purpose that the Progress Party believes is less good use of aid, which cut to 10 million. DKK in aid for projects in China. Money from Norway should not serve the purpose of the world’s second largest economy, which should have sufficient resources and capacity to address its own challenges. In our view, it is also positive that we reduced the allocation to Palestinian self-government authorities by 30 million. kr. The Progress Party considers it unnatural that Norway should provide budgetary support to the Palestinian self-government authorities while giving priority to channeling funds to convicted terrorists over its own budget. The cut is also an important signal to the authorities that it is unacceptable to use school books that build up under a culture of violence and hatred against Israel. This is incompatible with the creation of peace and reconciliation, which should be a main objective of Norway's involvement in the Palestinian territories. With regard to the Palestinian schoolbooks, we look forward to the Minister of Foreign Affairs giving us a review of the study from the Georg Eckert Institute, which we understand will be available early next year. It's high time the Storting got involved when you see that schools that we're part of are using books that teach children to continue the conflict. Let me also say a few words about the defense. Few things are more important than the defence of Norway, protecting both people and countries. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that one of the most important tasks of the State is to secure us against threats from outside. In fact, the defence is absolutely essential for us to be free to live in a Western and open democracy. It is necessary to ensure national sovereignty through strong national defence and broad alliance building in NATO, not just for today, but through planning for tomorrow’s challenges. It means rapid adaptation to new threats and new technologies. It was therefore gratifying to see that the cyber defence got ten new jobs through the long-term plan, thanks to the initiative of the Progress Party. We alone are too small to stand up to threats from the outside. That is why we must have a strong alliance with NATO. Norway is actually NATO in the north. Our command and our soldiers have a good overview of what is happening in our neighbourhoods. It is also in Norway's interest to have a constructive relationship with our large neighbour in the east. The Progress Party wants predictability around the Defence Organisation and Development. The financial framework must be adapted to the needs of the defence. If the Army is to be able to solve the problems it has already been imposed, the combat force and the number of soldiers must be increased. The lack of crew is precarious today. This will be improved as a result of the decisions in the new long-term plan. The army’s size must reach a level that ensures its presence and activity throughout Norway. Therefore, material acquisitions should be accelerated. The army also needs helicopter capacity, which will now be considerably improved by the establishment of a squadron on Bardufoss for support for the Army. The operational capability of the marine defence must also be significantly strengthened. New submarines will contribute, but in particular we need to find capacities to replace the loss of the frigate 'Helge Ingstad'. Home security has had a positive development in recent years, with the introduction of newer and better material. Annual training of all crews must take place and the Coast Guard must be present in all our sea areas. To that it needs the helicopter. This must therefore be a priority task in the future budgets of the Defence Agency. Several should carry out the initial service. The fulfilment of the duty of protection should be given increased status in civil society as well. The Progress Party wishes to increase both the Service Supplement and the Division Compensation. It will ensure that fewer suffer a financial loss by implementing the initial service. Sending soldiers on foreign missions is one of the most serious things a government can do. Soldiers must be trained, trained and trained to handle sharp tasks under realistic and demanding conditions and must be followed up afterwards. All forms of sensitising must be taken seriously. Veterinary organisations are good cooperation resources for this work. The Progress Party supports their desire for more civil research on the health and mental responses of veterans. The defence budget has been adopted with minor changes, among them a joyful case with cultural-historic defence eyes, namely that the peaceful property Tollbugata 10 in Oslo is transferred to the Old War School Foundation for a symbolic sum. The old war school is an important symbol of a higher management education given, regardless of the economic background and status of the cadets. The building is approx. 400 years old and has the house war school in about 200 of them – and up to now. It shows that the building – and the culture and history that lie in the walls there – is still alive and up to date, and must be preserved. Let me quote the war school cadets Karen Frederikke Løvenskiold and Brage Bolstad-Andreassen, who in an article in the Defence Forum in October wrote the following: «History is our legacy, and something we owe to our predecessors and descendants to care for.» As far as the old war school is concerned, it is impossible not to agree with this. Another important symbol of our defence that is supported by funds in this budget is a Gloster Gladiator 423, one of the planes that contributed to the delay of the German air raid on Norway on 9 April 1940. The means of restoration are now ensured, and it is also important in a historical perspective. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party and look forward to the further debate on important issues in the field of defence and foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e280	Through foreign policy, the Centre Party will strengthen the regime, ensure fair distribution, contribute to safe access to food and increased self-sufficiency and support for human rights. Food and access to food are an important factor in many of the challenges facing the world. The Central Party believes that safe access to food is a fundamental human right and a prerequisite for the success of society. We believe that the job of ensuring adequate food production for the whole world's population is a prerequisite for peace and development. Climate change is today one of the greatest challenges facing us globally. If we fail to reduce emissions, it will have serious consequences. The conditions for housing and food production will change across large parts of the world and drive many people on the run. It will be absolutely crucial if we are to create climate-friendly agriculture in developing countries. The center party will work for increased food security in the world, so we'll allocate 400 million. kr more to the World Food Programme. The importance of the fight against hunger, also as a prerequisite for peace, became visible to all and everyone when the World Food Programme was recently awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Unfortunately, there are many examples of the lack of food security, commodity prices and the struggle for access to food resources as a trigger or contributing factor in international crisis and conflict. Hunger hits vulnerable people hard, most vulnerable from before, and unfortunately it can also be used as an effective weapon in war and conflict. The centre party will provide assistance where it benefits the most. So we want to label 10 pst. of agricultural aid aid and EUR 100 million. kr to support small-scale agriculture. There is a lot to the right and the Centre disagrees, and an important distinction is made in foreign policy with regard to Norway’s relationship with the EU. Here, both the Center Party and the Right are very clear. The centre party is clearly opposed to a Norwegian EU membership, because we want to maintain governance over Norway in the Norwegian National Assembly, while the right on its side wants to work for a Norwegian EU membership. That's a political difference that we can be completely honest with. During the last few weeks there has been a strange debate in the media, where the Right has tried to create uncertainty about the relationship between the Centre Party and the EEA, while they themselves underestimate the fact that they do not want an EEA agreement, but will undermine Norway’s independence and the right to dispose of our natural resources through full membership of the EU. This ambition now shares the Left, and that means that the majority of the government now wants to work for Norwegian EU membership, as Prime Minister Erna Solberg actually did in 2009. The relationship of the centre party to the EEA has been fully clarified, and that is the same as before. We want to explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement and replace today's EEA Agreement with trade agreements. We want Norwegian industry and jobs to be secured, and have access to the market, but we believe that we need a form of connection that does not, at the same time, increase social dumping, greater disparities, give us less control over Norwegian resources, intervene in the regime and Norway's sovereignty, and delegate as much power to the EU as the EEA Agreement now does. This year, the government has granted about 6 billion. in EEA funds, which go to different projects in the EU, with a rather uncertain impact. The Central Party believes that huge sums of aid to countries such as Poland and Hungary are the wrong priority in a world where a number of countries face major challenges and need financial support for aid and development. One might wonder if the Storting would have supported all the EEA funds if we actually took a position on each item or sum that goes to the different countries. Therefore, the Centre Party will cut off the EEA funds and liquidate Norway’s own aid schemes. We believe that this money can be spent in far more sensible ways to create security, development and democracy around the world. Then I will end by addressing the proposals that we are in, which have not already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e301	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e306	SV has presented a proposal for enhanced international solidarity with particular emphasis on the two things we believe Norwegian development policy must be more about in the years to come. One is the effort to ensure that poor countries also have the opportunity to adapt and convert their economies to the climate crisis, to invest in renewable energy and to develop economically and socially as the new green solutions come. Then it is essential to have access to technology, to have access to capital and to have the opportunity to begin a stronger economic and social development linked to the green shift. Unfortunately, there is also a need for a strong commitment to climate change adaptation, because we know that the climate crisis is hitting the poorest of all hardest. This is crucial, for example: that small farmers in poor countries are given the opportunity to grow plants that can stand in a tougher climate, that we are already helping those who are hardest hit by the climate crisis to adapt to the changes that unfortunately are already taking place as a result of global warming. The second main initiative is the fight against inequality. One of the main changes in Norwegian development policy from the red-green government to the current government is that inequality has disappeared as a main perspective of Norwegian development policy. Seeing the relationship between large differences and the lack of development, between community models that allow small elites to enrich themselves without most people having access to wealth, is extremely important. That is why we are committed to strengthening, for example: concrete initiatives, such as Tax for Development. I find it disappointing to see the profile of the cuts made in the budget agreement. It appears to be a step in a completely different direction from the profile Norway should have in the development debate. It's cut in climate, which is helping to weaken just the green bet, which is so important. It's cut off sexual and reproductive health and rights. It's cut to the UNDP. It is cut to the Palestinians, just when the Palestinians are in a desperate situation. And it's cut into education and equality. This is a profile that reminds us more of the developments we have seen in US foreign and development policy in recent years than what should be a good government policy. I think the Minister for Development should give a clear answer in this debate. SV is also concerned that Norway needs to change the role we play internationally in many important issues right now. We come back to the vaccine question, we could discuss the nuclear question. In a number of cases, we see that the strong military and political dependence on the United States means that Norway does not stand up as what we should be, namely a bridge builder and a voice for those who have the least power and money in the world. We want to weaken that dependence, and that's also why SV in its defence budget is in favour of a commitment to national defence, with increased staffing, with increased investment in maritime defence and army and to bring Norwegian soldiers home from the American-led wars in other countries, in which Norway has been involved for a long time. I think that the debate we are now having on the budget, and the debate we are going to have afterwards, on Norway's position on poor countries' demands for access to vaccines at an affordable price, is somewhat interrelated, because there are discussions about what kind of voice Norway should have in the world, and what kind of side we are going to stand on. I think both that matter in the WTO and the way in which the budget partners have cut the development budget, promises bad for the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e320	Then the representative Audun Lysbakken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will only state that the matter has been brought together in one debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e327	I'll be back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e332	The representative is welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e337	Now we have submitted state budgets on behalf of a civil majority for eight years, and one of the things that was said before we won that election was that if there was something you were sure of, it was that the aid rate wasn't going to hold. Now we've presented the eighth, and the aid rate lasts. We stand for our obligations, we stand for what we have written in our programs, and we stand for the efforts we have. Yes, there's also a twist in the bet in that area, and one of the first things the bourgeois parties found out about was the bet on girls and education. Why is it so important? Well, when the Left was founded in 1884, the first social reform was carried out, a common school for everyone, regardless of social background and gender. We were then among the poorest countries in Europe. The school reform carried out in 1884 is the main reform building on the basis of Norwegian wealth and wealth. That's why we believe that investing in education, and especially girls and education, in working to contribute to development in countries, is one of the most important initiatives we can have. We've had it for eight years, and it was a dramatic shift compared to when SV ran that department. Then changes were made after the government presented its proposal. The left was primarily for the government's original proposal, but none of the additions made through the budgetary agreement here on the Storting, which we disagree with. It is important to have long threads in foreign policy. It is important to recognise that Norway is a small country that needs strong international cooperation structures to manage its opinions. If someone's wondering how important it is, you can just look at the distribution of vaccines now. What would Norway have to do with as a small country, if it had not been for us to work closely with other countries and have strong international structures? I agree with the chairman of the committee that debate is good, and that debate is part of the process of developing both policies and positions. Some of the challenge for the Workers' Party is that it's not the Working Party that's the Counter Pole, no matter how much you try. It almost seems like you're a little tired because you're not that backbone. The big distinctions in foreign policy here in the hall go between the Centre Party and the rest and SV and the rest. SV will withdraw us from all international defence structures – I think the representative Elvesuen will come back to that – and believe that we should isolate ourselves as much as possible in defending our country, while we know that what has really made peace is cooperation between countries on the defence side. What has really helped to create good structures in which Norway has worked is that we are seeking alliances between other countries, while SV wants us to cooperate less, practice less together and have weaker international structures. On the other hand, we see the Centre Party, which believes that the EEA Agreement is just some terrible thing that provides agricultural support to other countries. I believe that the EEA Agreement really contributes to providing the basis for the welfare of Norway, by allowing Norwegian businesses to export their goods under the same conditions as all others. European cooperation also helps to bring us forward dramatically in terms of climate and environment. We would not have had the opportunity to have such an offensive climate and environmental policy that works, if it had not been for us to also connect to EU systems and structures in that area. Norway needs cooperation. There may also be varying enthusiasm for Norway's entry into the Security Council, but the United Nations is very important for Norway. We need the international structures, and sometimes we also have to do the job of being there and leading them, if we want to give them power and weight in the future. It's very important. If we don't have the international structures, who wins? Yes, they are the great dictatorships. It's the big ones who can harass the little ones. If there's something we know about in Norway, it's being the small country that's being harassed by big dictatorships. I do not want China and Russia to lay down the structures internationally; I want it to be the Western democracies that win, but then the Western democracies must be able to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e358	Norway’s main foreign policy interest is to support and further develop committed international cooperation. This changed the government a lot in the so-called mulit message that was submitted last year. It is also a horizontal theme in the budget proposal, and I am very pleased to see it in the Committee's position. It is important because, like several speakers, a small country such as Norway is completely dependent on committed international cooperation for our economy, our security and our prosperity. We have many good examples of how this has served Norway well over several decades – our NATO membership, which is the pillar of security policy, the fact that we have the EEA Agreement is no less important, and I believe very strongly that during the pandemic we have cooperated with the European Union and in Europe in a serious way. Then we are facing enormous international challenges. They have also changed a lot from the budget to the government until it was presented to the Stortinget and to where we are now. The world food programme estimates that between seven and eight million people worldwide have died of starvation to date this year. They estimate that the number could be doubled in 2021 if you don't have the power both to close the funding gap and to reach out with help. The World Food Programme is already one of our most important humanitarian partners. By 2020, we're going to spend an estimated 915 million. kr through the World Food Programme. It's also one of the partners that we have, that gets the best out. Today, they make some bread. 88 million people in 100 countries and are an unusually important channel for us, also because they contribute heavily to logistics operations that are also important to other relief organisations. Right now there is a risk of starvation crises in especially seven countries – Yemen, Afghanistan, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Congo and Burkina Faso. The reason why I mention this is that this is also one of the reasons why it has been important to strengthen the humanitarian budget over time. In the time of this government, we have strengthened the humanitarian budget by approx. 68 pst. But the needs are enormous. This is precisely why the increases made to both the World Food Programme and the UNHCR in the budget agreement are important. In a lot of countries, we feel that it's not the pandemic that's the biggest challenge for people, but the consequences of the economic and social. It affects the whole spectrum of food and hunger crises, human rights crises and security crises. We see, for example: the proportion of sexual and gender-based violence has increased dramatically during the pandemic. It is therefore a major protection crisis, and civil protection is also one of the main priorities of Norway in the Security Council. So a few words in conclusion related to the EEA Agreement. I noticed that the representative Emilie Enger Mehl believed that the Right would not have the EEA Agreement, but would also undermine Norwegian sovereignty and the right to rule. There are few things that are further from the truth at both ends of that reasoning. Firstly, the EEA Agreement is our lifeline to Europe. I really suggest that the representative, Enger Mehl, take a little tour around the district of Norway and talk to businesses and businesses, who are extremely concerned that Norway might change its position on the EEA Agreement. There will be very clear feedback on the extreme importance of the EEA Agreement for market access, for rural settlements, and that we will be able to cooperate well with European countries and have the same standards as do, for example. export simple. I also believe that those who are hot defenders of renegotiating the EEA Agreement or finding other alternatives can take a look at what is now happening in the United Kingdom and see how easy it is to get conditions that are at least as good. Nor is it the case that the Right or other parties with sympathies for cooperation with Europe would, for this reason, undermine Norwegian power and sovereignty, rather on the contrary. For us, it is a crucial part of our prosperity development, of our security and of our economy that we can actually participate on an equal footing in a European cooperation that gives us all of these benefits. I think the discussion about the EU and the EEA is going to continue, but I think very strongly that the pandemic has shown us the value and importance of the cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e386	We agree that the pandemic has underlined the need for the EEA Agreement. But I'm going to ask about another aspect related to the pandemic, and that's all that infectious equipment that was important for Norway to have access to at a very critical time, and I think we agree on that. But now it has become apparent that some of these infectious agents may have been produced during forced labour in China. It is important when we have large public acquisitions, that it is subject to ethical legislation, and that it intends to ensure that human rights are respected. What has the government done to ensure that large acquisitions comply with basic human rights requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e391	I'm going to be careful to express myself too much about this, because it's not my constitutional responsibility, it's under the minister of health, but I can say the following: At the time, as the representative also refers to, the need for anti-infection equipment was great in Norway and anywhere else in the world. The supply lines were more or less broken down, and very many countries had closed their borders and also closed their export possibilities. It is Hospital Purchase that is behind these agreements, and they are using suppliers, and I would say, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, that if it turns out that subcontractors have used forced labour, it is of course something that is taken very seriously, and from which we take a great distance. I'm not going to go into details about it, as I mentioned, but Hospital purchases work according to the same ethical and sound trade guidelines as other public operators do. If there are further questions related to the details, I recommend that the Minister of Health be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e396	In the Question Time of 2 December, my party colleague Himanshu Gulati asked the Minister for Development about the prison pay that Palestinian authorities give to convicted terrorists and their families. He was told that the question must be addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is why I am here now. New figures from Israel show that last year the Palestinian authorities gave a total of 1.6 billion dollars. in prison pay for convicted terrorists and their families. Such prisoner wages for so-called martyrs often involve a large one-off sum and a monthly salary of up to NOK 15 000. Several countries have cut off their aid to the Palestinians to show their disgust at such payments to convicted terrorists. Since the budgetary unity between the Advance Party and the Government parties means a reduction in aid to the Palestinians, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether she will use this cut to put pressure on the Palestinian authorities to end up paying pay to convicted terrorists if they want Norwegian support in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e403	I am pleased that I could then get to Stortinget as quickly as possible after the questionnaire for my good colleague. As the representative is well aware, Norwegian funds do not go to pay prison wages, and it is important to clarify. It's something we've been told repeatedly, it's also been given to previous governments, and it's an important principle for us, because we think it's an unacceptable system. It is also something that we communicate very clearly to Palestinian self-government authorities together with our clear demand that it be cleaned up in the school curriculum. We do not finance school syllabus and books, but we still believe it is important to use all the dialogue we have with the Palestinians to convey that very point of view. I also think it is important to bear in mind that the support given to Palestinian self-government authorities as well as to Palestinian refugees in many countries is also contributions that the Israelis are committed to providing, because it contributes to stability, and it contributes to less radicalisation. I believe it is an important perspective to include, precisely because Israel is also concerned about having security agreements and security cooperation with the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e412	The centre party believes it is essential to maintain control of Norwegian natural resources and Norwegian soil, and the NRK today writes that Russia and China are now showing interest in purchasing the rights to extract coal in a very large area of Svalbard. It's about an area the size of Stavanger and Sandnes. It comes out in the case that the seller really wants the state to buy, but has not got any interest in it so far. So the question is what does the government think about China and Russia ensuring control of strategic and important natural resources in the Arctic, and will the government possibly take action to stop that happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e418	Once again, this isn't my constitutional responsibility, but I'd like to answer the question a little bit. It is such that the land on Austre Adventfjord is owned by the State at the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The company today has ten goals on Svalbard, and they are entirely on state owned land. Then it is important to stress that having a goal does not give ownership to the land, nor does it guarantee that you are allowed to extract, for example. minerals. It has, among other things, to deal with the Swallow Environment Act, and it applies to everyone. At the same time, all companies belonging to any of the States of the Treaty have the opportunity to take action against Svalbard, and this is more specifically regulated in the Svalbard Mining Scheme of 1925. But it is also true that nearly 800 outlays have fallen in the open since 1986, and that is among other things. because the employment obligations attached thereto have not been fulfilled and it does not seem to be particularly dramatic in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e425	I understand that it was a little difficult to answer. In that article, there is also a swallowbard expert who says that if this happens, if China gets to buy these rights, it will give China a foothold in the Arctic that they don't have from before. And I think it's a little weird if the Foreign Minister can't say anything about what the government thinks about the kind of natural resources that can be under Chinese control, so that's really my question. This has been a theme in the past; Norway provided control of Adventfjords in 2016 by buying there. And you have to take into account not only the profitability of coal extraction, but also the importance of this for the relationship with other countries, so I wonder if the Council of State can elaborate on it a little bit, how she sees China possibly getting control of such an area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e432	It was not difficult at all to answer the question. I just said that this is not under my constitutional responsibility, when the question relates specifically to this possible Chinese interest. But then it is also the case that he who has spoken in the article has a completely different view of, among other things. Norwegian sovereignty of Svalbard than is the Norwegian view and is also undisputed. That is, he bases his analysis on a different assessment than what is the reality. It's e.g. so that Chinese activity in our part of the Arctic today is primarily based on participation in research. There are some common interests in Norway and China – far from all, but we have some common interests – and it is therefore not that a country is given a foothold in the Arctic by exercising an opportunity under the Svalbard Treaty. And I remind you that getting a measure or an extractive right, it does not give any ownership or rights that are not limited by, for example, svalbard environmental law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e439	The original budget states that there is an economic crisis in the Palestinian territories and that there is a need for increased support in 2021. But the result of the budget deal is a cut of 30 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. What change has taken place in the perception of the need for 2021, and what does this do with Norway's credibility as the player for peace in the Middle East we hope to remain? How has the Foreign Minister intended to explain this signal to the Palestinians?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e446	As you know, in a budget settlement, not all cuts you agree with, and I don't reveal a big secret when I say that there was no desire from us to make it cut. That being said, our support for the Palestinians is quite stable, and it has done so over the years. These include: because it consists of more than this one budget line. It also consists of, inter alia, humanitarian aid, which has increased in 2020, including: because of the precarious situation we have. Among other things, we have provided several medical supplies to Gaza, which is a very concrete and direct example of the support we provide. We use both the political input we have, through the leadership of the AHLC, we use the dialogue with the Palestinians, the Israelis, the Americans and other regional actors to get a good idea of what the situation is and what the needs are. I would like to add that we have been very clear to the Palestinians that we expect them to also accept the tax revenue that Israel collects on their behalf. They have now agreed to that, and it will also improve the economic situation somewhat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e453	Let me then switch the theme to the question of vaccines. The government has rejected SV’s proposal to change the position in the TRIPS process, the International Patent Agreement, and the WTO related to the ability to produce cheaper copy drugs in order to obtain rapid vaccination in poor countries. I believe that it is wrong to choose the wrong side, it is to stand on the side of the major pharmaceutical companies instead of taking sides for India, South Africa and other low-income and middle-income countries that are engaged in the fastest possible vaccination and access to covid-19 medicines. What will Norway now do to ensure rapid access to these countries? Is there any chance that Norway can change its position in the WTO?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e460	It is not just the government that has rejected SV's proposal; it has done all the other parties on Stortinget as well. That is because it is a very far-reaching proposal. It is not a rich country versus poor country proposal. There are several developing countries that are also sceptical or do not express support for the proposal, and the picture is quite mixed. It is a very far-reaching proposal because it would have removed intellectual property rights and patents, which are important for the development and research of medicinal products. We all depend on that, including developing countries. It also has a geographical impact page that is of such a nature that it targets not only the poorest countries but generally all countries. It's a relatively poor use of a negotiating institute. In the past, we have tried — and are now also trying — to find positions that can be reasonable with other countries. An initiative has also been taken to identify whether this is actually preventing any patents. So far there's no indication that it is. But this is a discussion that comes up today and tomorrow at the WTO General Council, and it is going to continue in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e467	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e472	The Government has presented a new long-term plan for the defence sector at a time of increased complexity and greater unforeseeability. We describe a challenging picture for Norway. We must live with and plan for uncertainty and unrest for a long time to come. The Korona crisis is an example of unforeseeable events that are taking on a broader and wider impact on our security than most of us here have ever experienced. A good long-term plan was further strengthened by the Storting Decision on 3 December. This is the first budget in this government's second long-term plan. We started four years ago a necessary effort to strengthen defence capabilities in most areas. At the same time, we have been clear that what we started was only the beginning of a more comprehensive and long-term effort to strengthen, modernise and further develop the defence sector. We continue to show that we take defence and security seriously. In a period of pressure for the Norwegian economy, too, we give priority to defence. We have increased the defence budgets by over 30 pst. since 2013. Based on our long-term proposal, we, together with the bulk of the population, have set up a further strengthening in the future. Then we should not forget what was originally used for previous long-term plans, with the deduction of additional funding for new fighter aircraft and the Joint Strike Missile. With the new long-term plan, the government has found it necessary to keep all this money on the defence budget in order to strengthen its defence capabilities in the future. The economic strengthening of the Defence is taking place in a close time and is by no means a shift of responsibility. And then we all realize that this means big sums in the long term. This long-term plan also has a significant shift compared to the previous two plans, for two reasons. Firstly, the money is retained for the temporary financing of fighter aircraft, and secondly, this plan adds up to further growth even after 2028, in order to keep pace with the GDP share and thus maintain a GDP share of 2 pst. for defence purposes. The defense continues with full force in 2021. We're raising the defence budget nominally by 3.8 billion. kr, which is an increase of 6.2 pst. from 2020 onwards. In the 2021 budget, we continue the modernisation of defence and further increase the provision for material investment. In the large investment portfolio there are both ongoing projects and new projects, with all the largest planned payments to new maritime patrol aircraft and new coastguard vessels. We also provide the upgrade of the CV90 fighting and supporting vehicles and corvettes in the Skjold class. Preparedness for supply is strengthened in order to improve the defense's stamina. For this purpose, the budget is increased by approximately 400 million. kr from 2021, and the action is among the main priorities of the Defence Manager in order to improve operational capability. The provision in 2021 is largely directed to the Army, where the need is greatest. So we're going to add 300 million. kr for reinforced material operations. The army has received and will receive a lot of new material, but still operates ageing and maintenance-intensive equipment at an ever-increasing level of activity. For Home Affairs, we use funds to improve the storage capacity of the material, especially in the northern HV districts. Monitoring and good intelligence are crucial for our ability to understand the situation. We continue to strengthen the E-service in order to increase capacity, competence and relevance within the E-service’s remit. Within the enhanced framework, the E service shall also assume responsibility for the organised procurement of cross-border electronic communications in line with the framework we have now set. An important glue in the new long-term plan is the staff escalation. This hits with full weight as early as 2021, where more than 300 new annual works are planned. A total of 330 million is set aside. to new officers, specialists, conscripts and reservists. At the same time, it is essential that personnel growth is balanced against available EBA and material and that all inputs are consistent in time. With this budget, the government has delivered on the long-term plan for the fifth consecutive year, and we have no plans to stop now. I believe that we are now building a defence with the right device, which can respond to changes in the environment within an acceptable risk. We've never had, and will never have, a defense where all the risks are eliminated, but it's our job as politicians, whether we're in government or on the Biggest, to balance this risk against other important societal tasks. Then I respect that there are different views, both in terms of the size of the defence budget and not least in terms of priorities within the agreed framework. However, I note that the vast majority are in agreement on the main lines of Norwegian security and defence policy, which I also believe is a strength for Norway and an important prerequisite for all the capable people in the sector to put our decisions into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e505	The defense has been at work during the pandemic. They've had good infection control measures, but I want to ask about the clean-up team in Defense. There's one thing we've disagreed about. The Minister of Defence says that he will continue the privatisation here, but I have received many reports that this kind of cleaning has not met the pandemic – that employees have to wash the water, that the cost of washing windows is added, that there is disproportionate use of security clearance, and in some places there has been no cleaning under the pandemic. My question is, what has the Minister of Defence done to evaluate the work on privatized cleaning during the pandemic? What has he done to get information about how this new system has met with the pandemic? We've been told under this pandemic that clean-up is socially critical. It's important that it's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e513	It may not be that the Minister of Defense lives in a vacuum where there is no information on the state of defence. There have been challenges, we've discussed them many times in this room. But it is also the case that by putting out the clean-up tasks we have a clearer way of demanding that service. It has been seized along the way, among other things. changed supplier in places where it has been complicated. We have challenges, but not just because of the pandemic. We have challenges simply because we have a lot of building mass that is very old. One of the biggest problems with EBA for the defense in wrecks around is mold – old barley with mold. We've shut down debris in some places, and we've moved departments to other camps while we're rebuilding and building new EBA. We're following this situation, and the reports back are probably not clear that this is just bad, no, many places have been adjusted by also getting better cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e520	I have a question: has it become cleaner in the defence since we put out clean-up on tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e525	I must be allowed to congratulate on a very good question. I have no indication that it has become more skilful in the defense since it was put out for tender, simply because we now have at least one way to measure the quality. And I've noticed a lot of dedicated defense personnel looking around in the hooks to see if it's dirty.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e532	It might be tempting to ask if the Minister of Defense has ‘wash the floor’ and ‘should know’, but it may be a little early, and that’s not what my question is about. The defense needs more officers and officers. The educational reform in Defence has led to the recruitment of the War School now mainly taking place directly from secondary school. Students from there are assimilated to those in the Defence Service. This requires that they, among other things, is offered for accommodation. The capacity of the War School is already under strong pressure in terms of housing quarters, and with the new positions given to the Defence as a result of decisions in the new Long-term Plan, my question is: How will the challenges related to the need for training of multiple officers and officers be resolved, including with regard to necessary accommodation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e539	Thanks for the follow-up question about wood washing and washing the floors. There it is thin. This is a good question. With regard to admission to War School, it is not the case that there are now mainly personnel coming from high school. No, there are people who have been in for the first time, there are people who come straight from high school, and there are people who take one year's war school because they have a bachelor's degree from before. So we get a lot of diversity in the personnel group from which we can recruit further officers in Defense, and that's a crazy move, simply because we need to have all-sided competence. There are challenges in capacity at War School, and there are also challenges in accommodation, but my reports are that these are things we're going to be able to solve. It's also the way we get some ordinary students who don't necessarily settle in traditional, but live in ordinary apartments around where the War School is, so I don't have the very big faith that we won't get enough people into the War School because there's no house.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e548	The President just wants to say that with a number of budget debates again, it's a while until we can 'blow in a moment', at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e553	To comfort, I can say, the time comes when we can ‘blow in a moment’. But first a question: In a recent comment, Colonel of the Army and Professor of the Defence College Tormod Heier said that the government lacks the will to build a Norwegian defense capable of being visible and present at the borders of Russia. He points out that it is urgent, and that one leans so heavily on the U.S. and other allies and uses so little force to build trusting neighbourliness of Russia that it can lead to a much more tense situation, and that Norway can become a caste in the power play of the great powers. What does the Minister of Defense and the Government do to prevent Norway from becoming such a caste between the great powers of their power games?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e560	That's also a very good question. I fundamentally disagree with most of the analyses of Colonel Heier and researches Tormod Heier, simply because his entrance to the problem is completely wrong. In discussing our position between the powers, we must also discuss our position as allies. We need to discuss our position as a Nordic country. So we've started building closer defence cooperation in the Nordic region. We should be aware — and this is an important point — that Tormod Heier disregards the fact that the description and analysis of the safety situation are similar in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Iceland. There's a reason for that. The safety situation has changed. We build good alliances in the Nordic region, we build good alliances with the Nordic countries, Nordic-Baltic, we build it in the Northern Group, but all these bi- and multilateral cooperation projects we have are a complement to our membership in NATO. It gives us a clear voice and a clear position where we are located geographically.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e569	Thanks for the answer. Now it is that Norway is a NATO member and a close neighbour of Russia. Sweden and Finland are not NATO members, but if one looks at their huge planned growth in the defence budget, it is clear that they seem to take the situation that the Council of State describes, much more seriously than one in Norway. Russia probably doesn't look at Norway as a big danger, I believe. We're a small and peaceful country, but Norway can, as an ally in NATO, be viewed as a possible place where the United States can deploy soldiers or others that can be a trump against their nuclear power in the north. In that case, Russia will also be able to use stronger instruments than one would otherwise have done. Does the Minister of Defense see that danger, and will he step further up in the north to prevent such a thing from happening, that we ourselves have governance in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e578	We have control in the north. The intention agreement we wrote with Sweden and Finland about increased practice and more operational synchronization of planning projects is also about showing that we have governance in the north. When we participate in allied flights, exercises and sailing, we do so because in that way we can influence how those exercises and operations are conducted, while at the same time we can take into account our second principle of security and defence policy when we are a small country with a large neighbour; we operate deterrence and tranquillity. When we sail with the British and the Americans, we can do so, but at the same time affect the sailor. That's why it's important when the chairman of the committee says that the head of FOH said critically that we should participate in a cruise, that there is a political question of whether or not we should be on board. The military adviser to the Minister of Defense is the head of defence. It's a little bit important that, for the sake of clarity, we also keep the shape of questions like this. We work with others in very good ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e587	Then I'll switch to a slightly different and well-known theme. In a previous round of these speeches, the Minister of Defence was quite advocating when we raised a matter of transparency in some documents that the Ministry of Defence used for two weeks to find out were internal documents. It used very strong words, and it is important for me to make it clear that the Centre Party has never had a document in it, has never seen the content of any document, but has only received a tip that we should ask for a document. Does the Minister of Defense think that his use of words – as the President might have said – is appropriate for people working in his organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e595	If you're an employee of the Defense Department and you break your loyalty obligation by leaking documents that are not public, I don't have any problem with using dialectic words from this pulpit as well. My point at the time was that as politicians, we have to think a little bit about our role, if we are willing to accept and use that kind of information. I record that after I delivered the ointment in this room, the Senter party has been eager to explain that they have not received any documents, they do not know what it says, they do not know anything about the contents, they only had some numbers they would ask for. It is in stark contrast to the rather rich wording I have received from the Central Party representatives about what those documents contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e602	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e607	The pandemic is a reminder of what we have known for a long time, and which applies more than ever in 2020: the well-being, safety and health of the Nordics depends on the well-being, safety and health of countries that may appear far away on the map. At a time when many people have had to reduce aid efforts due to their needs at home, we maintain the share of the state budget that is developing, at 1 pst. But we have also had to make tough re-priorities within the budget. We asked the question, how can we arrange the assistance to meet the pandemic as best we can? During the spring and summer, it was developed and laid a good professional foundation. This led to global health, social security networks and women’s and girls’ rights being one of the priorities and priorities of the global food crisis. The goal of eradicating hunger and extreme poverty by 2030 and achieving the other sustainability goals is firm. We're doing our job to slow down the pandemic's consequences, and we're helping to develop vaccines, test equipment, medicines and health systems and to ensure the fairest possible access to them. That's why we're increasing the international health effort in the state budget by 500 million. kr. Norway's long-standing involvement in Gavi and our initiative to establish CEPI after the ebola outbreak in West Africa have helped to shorten the time it has taken to develop vaccines against the coronary virus. Together with South Africa, Norway is leading international efforts to ensure the development and fair distribution of vaccines, test equipment and medicines. ACT-A is called that initiative. ACT-A has achieved very much in a very short time, but the lack of funds remains high. The almost daily message from the government's members to the world's leaders and to business is that the cost of stopping the virus is minimal compared to the cost of the pandemic. It's just equal to 0.25 pst. of the 20 richest countries in economic crisis packages. And it only takes 36 hours to recover the same investment. As we know, far too well from home, the pandemic is hitting violently, and it is hitting the most vulnerable hardest. Millions of children have had to stay at home from school, we see the number of teenage pregnancies increasing, we see dramatic increases in violence against women, as well as discrimination against minorities and people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. So we've been working on securing girls and boys in crisis and conflict a school offer, and we're making a contribution to Education Cannot Wait at 540 million. kr until 2022. The doubling of efforts for education since 2013 is ensured. We're increasing the effort for vulnerable groups by 56 million. NOK 2021. The obligation to use 10.4 billion. D on sexual and reproductive health and rights — including harmful habits — until 2025, are established. We strengthen our normative efforts for gender equality internationally and aim at half of all bilateral assistance having equality as its primary or sub-objectives. We know from our own history how crucial this is for economic growth and development. Coronary and climate change are our twin crisis. Both lead to more hunger and at worst to more conflict and more people on the run. That is why we need increased support for the World Food Programme of 500 million. be seen in the context of long-term climate adaptation, food safety and hunger control. Providing food in crisis is important and correct, but not enough. We need to strengthen the capacity of recipients to produce their own food, from better fertiliser to more climate-friendly agriculture, where natural solutions are better exploited, crops are increased, nutrition is improved and income is also increased when access is made – and shorter roads between farmers and the market. We will explore a climate fund to invest in renewable energy in developing countries and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is important to contribute to industrial development, not least in the sectors where most people work, such as agriculture and fisheries. We also need to harness the enormous potential of the sea as a source of both work and food. At the same time, we continue to emphasise democracy, governance, human rights and the fight against corruption. All of this is about combating poverty and hunger and strengthening the country’s own capacity for growth and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e639	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e644	In 2017, the government said to increase the appropriations for sexual and reproductive health by 700 million. SEK by 2020 – 700 million. kr. So it was cut at 250 million. kr for the current year and 100 mill. kr for next year. How in the world are you going to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e649	It's predictable, when we're standing here in this way, that those questions come up. I have been very clear from the pulpit: our commitment to sexual and reproductive health is firm – 10.4 billion. kr. So the rate of disbursement of some of the large funds can vary slightly from year to year. With both our financial contribution and not least the normative contribution we make, there is no doubt that Norway has a very clear position internationally. I had met with UNFPA earlier this week where they thanked us. So we are the largest donor of core support, of UNFPA's work, which is so crucial for sexual and reproductive health and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e656	The reason why my questions are so predictable is that the Council of State answers equally evasively on every single occasion. He has said that he will increase the budgets by 700 million. kr, but cutters this year and cutters until next year. Then you can say that it varies from year to year – well, it goes down from year to year, it moves further and further away not from my promises, but from what his government itself has said. It also has a symbol effect, because these are the areas that this Council of State chooses to cut. So I'm going to ask the same questions at every crossroads, because the Council of State has so bad answers. It doesn't help to say what you want in the long term, if you know every crossroad cuts in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e661	It's not about what we do in the long run, what we do in every crossroad. In fact, we've added an increase to just sexual health and rights, we've spent more money on UNFPA. We've seen it as being able to help compensate for some of the things that could have been a contraction in the period, because of the consensus over the last few weeks. So it's not like we're cutting at the intersections that are there. We're adding more money. And you know what -- that's because it's the most important thing we do. If there's something that the investigation has shown, it's just that we're strengthening the work for sexual health and rights and equality for girls, so it's getting to the wrong man. This is so important, and therefore the government has stuck to its promises, and we are using the possibilities we have to strengthen that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e666	Is the Council of State here saying that the money that comes into the new era compensates for the cut he's doing in the budget that we're going to adopt today? He cuts today, but in the new age he increases by a lot less. If you take 70 million. kr, as you cut, and you add 30 million. kr, it is still a cut. I think the Council of State has to deal with what are the clear figures here, that when he proposes a budget, which is to be adopted here in the Chamber today, which involves cuts, it is a cut. The fact that one increases slightly in the effusion does not compensate for that cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e671	What the representative forgets is that the government's original proposal was to increase by 56 million. kr, so the calculation is such that it is not cut to the size to which the representative refers. Then I also want to say that we have added 500 million. kr more to health, where very much of that is also going to go to this. We've also said that we're going to have equality as either main or partial goals in everything we do. There is a strong strengthening of the gender equality field, of girls and women's rights. We're also strengthening the vulnerable groups, which are going to get a lot, a lot more attention and clear programs that will help them, precisely because it's important. That's why the government has strengthened it, and so will we.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e685	The Council of State spoke in its statement on tough priorities and how best to organise the assistance. The issue now is that large sums are spent on assistance for, for example: Poland and Hungary, through EEA funds. In the state budget for 2021, a budget of nearly 6 billion has been committed. kr. If you look at Poland as an example, it's spent 809.3 million. EUR in assistance to Poland from 2014 to 2021. The centre party has called for a reduction in this pot when the EEA funds are to be renegotiated to spring, because we believe it is the wrong priority for aid. So my question is, how does the Minister for Development view that kind of priority, and believes the Christian People's Party and the government that it is right to give so much aid to countries like Poland and Hungary, or could this have been better used, in, for example. developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e692	Now this is a question that addresses a part of what is not the constitutional domain of the Minister of Development. But what I can say is that I am incredibly satisfied with the aid budget and the facility there, how we are just doing and strengthening the efforts of small-scale farmers, too many of those that are most important to reach, and the most vulnerable, both because of climate change and because of the increase in extreme poverty that we see. That's exactly what we're with and strengths. So I just want to say that I'm incredibly satisfied with the aid budget as it stands, and the priorities and achievements we've been given, and that we've managed to secure the one-percentage, also makes it possible for us to reach very far, where we want to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e697	I understand that this is probably under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but now that we have a Minister of Development, who is responsible for assistance, I think it would be very interesting to hear what he thinks about, for example. Polish municipalities receive assistance – and it can be used for a lot of different things, as we have, among other things. heard about bird-cushion projects and various things — while in other parts of the world the problem is that there is no food, that there is hunger, that there is war and conflict. Then I would like to ask: does the Minister for Development have any dialogue with the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this, and will he take initiatives towards these negotiations with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in order to reduce the pot of EEA funds? For there are new negotiations for spring that will close Norway's appropriations for the next few years quite strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e704	Then I can say that I really feel for the assessments and priorities that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing, and we have a good cooperation. Once again, I am incredibly happy with the priorities that we have, and the very clear poverty orientation that underlies everything we do, that we want to reach the vulnerable groups, and that climate and not least climate adaptation is what you can call the third strong arm in the work that underlies everything we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e711	I would also like to ask the Minister for Development some questions about vaccines, because he has been quite offensive both in the media and in the debate with Doctors Without Borders and Norwegian People's Aid that Norway is going to meet the poor countries. But there's no sign of that. On the contrary, SV's proposals, such as: Doctors Without Borders have argued for, rejected here today, and the government has really no other answer than to criticize our proposal. What is the Minister for Development going to do himself to ensure that this government and Norway get on the right side of the question of quickest possible access to covid-19 medicines and vaccines for poor countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e718	Norway is really on the right side here. Norway is one of the countries that has contributed the most, which has actually led to us being there today, that one billion doses of vaccine are already locked just to the poorest countries, who do not have the ability to pay for it. The fact that you've got it in eight to nine months is far more than any of us could expect in such a short time. A small reason for this is that some countries entered and pre-ordered many vaccine doses already in May and June. So for any of the things that are insinuated here, it's the exact opposite. If there is something certain, it is that Norway, through its position, by leading the work on fair distribution, has a responsibility as co-chairman to find compromise, find agreement. Now there are discussions today in Geneva, where there are many important conversations, where both co-suggestants and opponents of some of the ideas that have been on the table are now sitting and going deeper into those conversations. Norway has leadership and perhaps one of the most important voices, which has made us get to where we are today, through investments that have been made, across different parties from this room, and we're going to continue that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e725	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e730	In recent years, there has been growing doubt as to what the concept of Norwegian interest in foreign policy implies. The expression has been filled with the content of the sender's opinion fits his personal project. At the latest in the debate today, we have heard representatives say that for them Norwegian interests in foreign policy mean that – and then they put in their own project. I'm sick of that. Although the term came in 2009 through Meld. St. 15 for 2009–2010, was said to be dynamic, not that you can just fill it with any content. The Committee has tried to do something about this. Therefore, there was an overall committee that asked the government to give the Storting the opportunity to re-examine ‘Norwegian interests’, and the possibility to re-examine it also means an opportunity to join a definition or to vote against a definition – to redefine it, to give it new content. In examining the impact of Norway's role and interests in multilateral cooperation, we promoted that request decision in the light of a rapidly changing world situation, security and policy. That definition has now been included by the government in the budget. The content of opinion has not changed radically, nor was it intended. The opinion was to refill the concept of content, leave it up to discussion and let it be possible to vote against. No one's done that. Maybe you shouldn't believe that when you've heard the discussion today. The government defines "Norwegian interests" to include ‘conditions essential to the security, well-being and economy of Norwegian citizens, directly or indirectly, and based on liberal values, such as individual rights and freedoms, legal certainty and democracy.’;» That update was important to describe and crush an agreement on direction at a time when some are asking questions about the value of international cooperation, where democracy and human rights are under pressure on our own continent as well. Today, the tone-indicating country uses the multilateral system to fill it with new content and the established values are under pressure. And Norwegian interests are under pressure. Norwegian interests such as political liberalism and respect for human rights are challenged through the international system when used to legitimise abuse of power. In the international dialogue, especially in countries where foreign policy is more of an internal policy, several places are given the impression that multilateralism is a contrast to national political challenges or values. We also see that in Norway and also here in this room, and this can lead to an increased desire for protectionism. International Community solutions are produced in some places such as those imposed on nation states, and this leads to a reduction in the emergence of organisations to protect the rights and well-being of people. We hear that song in Norway, and we hear it in this Chamber and also in this debate. For the first time since 2001, there have been more autocracy than democracies in the world. That's why we don't have time to fool around here with whether it's in Norwegian interest to promote democracy out or not. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs opens his statement on Norwegian participation in the Security Council by saying that ‘preventing the weakening of international legal order and multilateral governance systems is Norway’s foremost foreign policy interest, because it is so crucial for our security, economy and well-being’, it is important to stress that it is not the Minister’s opinion. It's the opinion of the People's Chosen Body. We'll carry it together. It is an aggregate increase that today decides that Norway should be actively involved in defending and promoting the rule-based world order that has served Norway’s economy, security and well-being well after World War II. It is not in the Norwegian interest to allow Hungary’s and Poland’s inhabitants to suffer poverty and hardship for democracy and development in their own country. We're going to be hardhouses for them, we're going to work for them, and not working for them is not in Norwegian interest. There are those who disagree with this. There are those who think we are the best on our own, and that an unspeakable world of fragile democracies also in Europe does not concern us. But they are few, they are downhearted, and they speak against Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e752	To follow up the strofes, I suppose I should say: Pull the crack off the glass, and we wait for the ‘Delightful is the earth’. Initially, I will make a clarification that does not appear in the adjustment for next year's government budget. It is about the budgetary unity of the Progress Party which led to two cuts in the allocations under headings 159 to 70, which are not mentioned separately. That was 20 million, respectively. NOK 10 million. kr, and there are two separate measures where the Storting has reduced the appropriations in relation to the government’s proposal, more specifically 20 million. DKK to Palestinian self-government authorities and 10 million. kr to Palestine. I'll talk a little bit about development aid. It's today at 1 pst. of gross national income. Norway's income has, as we all know, fallen as a result of the pandemic situation we're in. It also reduces the one-percentage and reduces aid and development. However, there is reason to recall that Norway’s share in development aid is greatest and good. We're well above the average in the UN, 0.7 pst. of GNI, which Norway overstates. The pandemic is basically global, from support to large multilateral organisations in support of renewable energy construction. Compared to the year’s appropriations, the decline to next year will be around 1 billion. kr, if we compare with an aid budget of nearly 35 billion. kr on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. This may not be a huge sum, but it's the first time in many years that the exact sum of heads goes down. The needs we try to meet with Norwegian development assistance have not diminished, rather on the contrary. We know that the pandemic hits particularly hard where the institutions are weak already. In view of this, it is very gratifying that the government has made it possible to prioritise areas directly affected by the pandemic. The health crisis we are experiencing now, which is also a social crisis, is hitting hard in many places. However, where health systems are weak, the situation is particularly vulnerable. It is positive that about one-tenth of all development aid goes to global health promotion activities next year. This is a good and necessary priority. During the first half of 2020, 740 million were allocated. kr for health assistance, and for next year a further strengthening is proposed. This increased effort will be used to continue efforts for covid-19-related measures, such as the protection of marginalised groups, the protection of infection, treatment and fair distribution of vaccines. Norway is one of the impelling countries for cooperation on vaccination and will continue to have the leading role we have had, including next year. We are participating in the vaccine coalition CEPI, a partnership for the development of vaccines globally. Our contributions to the Gavi vaccine alliance involve the financing of the purchase of vaccines and the operation of vaccination programmes in low-income countries. In addition, Norway has taken on a leading role in ACT-A, which is a comprehensive global cooperation for fair access to vaccines, medicines and diagnostic devices for covid-19, launched this year. It also has relevance to a representative proposal from SV, which we are dealing with right now. Norway takes a leading role in the development and distribution of vaccines, including those intended to confer immunity against covid-19. The Government and the Right have not wanted to support initiatives by some stakeholder organisations and parties on the left who want Norway to oppose intellectual property rights on vaccines. This is because we believe that there are trade rules and markets that are part of the solution, not the problem. We reject the proposal – not because we do not support the best possible distribution of covid-19 vaccines globally, but because we believe there are other ways to achieve this goal, through the vaccine alliances in which we participate, and through support to health authorities in vulnerable countries. In the United Kingdom and the United States, the first doses of vaccines have been given to patients. In Norway, the first doses of the vaccine may have been expected by Christmas Eve, but in the summer it may be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e773	As I referred to in my question to the Minister of Defense, Lieutenant Colonel of the Army and Professor of the Defence Highness Tormod Heier, a statesman with the government's lack of willingness to build a Norwegian defense capable of being visible and present in Russia's border areas, that Norway in peacetime itself should be able to assert our interests. Instead, the government is investing in increasing use of American and Allied soldiers even in peacetime. This is not a policy to create a low voltage in the north, and then I disregard that we should have good and close contacts for practice and training with allies. As Heier points out, Russia does not see Norway as a target, but Norway can be used as a platform for engagement on Russian nuclear forces not far from the Norwegian border. Time is a decisive factor in emergency issues, not only when it comes to response, but also in relation to the necessary build-up. The purchase of military material and the development of structure and competence takes a long time, and one must therefore take too many possible scenarios in the build-up of defence capabilities. That's the size and state of our national defence that gives Norway room for action within bilateral agreements and alliances we're part of. In a time of increasing unrest and worsening security situation in Norway's vicinity, the Center Party believes it is necessary to start a more offensive build-up of the Defense already from 2021. This takes the consequences of the Center Party, and in our alternative budget we propose to increase the pledges to the Defence by 1.51 billion. in addition to the proposed government budget for 2021. I hope the Minister of Defense in the debate will make it more clear how he will ensure a low-voltage policy in the north and ensure that Norway has the strength to avoid becoming a caste in its power play. Although the stock exchange is up to the level of the Norwegian economy at which the corona epidemic occurred, there are many enterprises that are struggling, not least in the shipbuilding industry along the coast. At such times, it is important to pursue counter-cyclical policies. In the defense, there is a great need to elaborate on major maintenance and upgrades. It is not least the case with the Naval Defense, which is, of course, weighed down by the loss of the frigate "Helge Ingstad", but also with the Army and the Home Guard. At a time when there are conflicting circumstances, needs and interests related to the global pandemic and security policy situation, the Centre Party will engage Norwegian industry to support the Defence with Emergency Building. In our alternative budget, we propose to grant 880 million. to improve security of supply and materials in defence and to strengthen the defence industry in Norway. Through this exercise, the FLO may carry out several exceptional maintenance actions on several of its maritime defence classes and Coast Guard. There is also a need for technical upgrades on both mountain armoured cars and engineering armoured vehicles, and there are suppliers in Norway who can do these jobs. It's a win-win for both the Defense and the Industry. The central party's priorities are otherwise as they have been for many years now on the defence side. We want to put new tanks and helicopters in place for the Army. It was some daring government and the Labour Party agreed on a settlement four years ago, but nothing has happened. We will strengthen Homeland Protection and start building a Brigade South, based on cadres and reservoirs. Sea defence shall be strengthened by a crew of frigates and ship upgrades. The centre party is also concerned with the phase-in of new F-35 fighter and P-8 surveillance aeroplanes. It's hard to get enough staff in a transitional phase. We have therefore added some extra funds to it. Because the Center Party wants to reserve Evenes for a good QRA for the new fighter flies, we save 300 million. kr there and also uses one sixth of the investment amount allocated to the base of Evenes to upgrade the aircraft base on Andeya. The security of the inhabitants of Norway is the most important responsibility we have in Stortinget. The centre party wants to further develop the great defense we have to be even stronger, to secure our land and sea areas. In peacetime, Norway will do it without having to go free-trade to our friends in NATO beyond good cooperation within common practice and training. Finally, a small comment that the representative Tetzschner thinks Norway wants to go on a leash. I shall quote from the budget setting: ‘The members of the Central Party Committee shall establish a foreign policy which shall strengthen the Government of the People’s Republic, ensure fair distribution, build under human rights and contribute to the responsible management and allocation of natural resources. In order to achieve these objectives, Norway must be an active driver of multilateral cooperation, not least a force of the United Nations that can make powerful action in a world of growing contradictions and unrest.» That might not be exactly what was quoted from Tetzschner. It is possible that he should read the configuration better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e797	We can see that there is a great deal of agreement in this Chamber on all the main lines of defence policy. This consensus is also reflected in the budget when we talk about all the broad lines of financing the defence economy. But once again, there is a major direct disagreement between the government and the Workers' Party on important aspects of the organisation of defence. It's about the operation of the defense. What happens, without the Secretary of Defense ever coming into it from the Parliament's pulpit to some extent, is that we are documented that there is a very active and direct privatisation of the operation of the defence. There are a number of enterprises in Defence that are now being privatised and in a way taken out of the Defence Organisation and direct control, and so-called strategic cooperation with private companies and businesses is developing. What has been the Workers' Party's concern on many occasions, and I repeat it here, too, is that in many ways this can be gradually transformed so that there is reason to be deeply concerned about whether the Defence in the long term is able to control your own organisation. I also raised this question in connection with the treatment of the long-term programme of defence, and I am now repeating it here. I do that because representatives of the government parties – and the Minister of Defence, whom I have already addressed – do not respond to these challenges. It is not answered in the vote; it is not answered in the speech of the Storting. The question is, is this a development that is merely ideologically driven? And does this ideology overshadow what is obviously the concern of the Defence's own organization, about the consequences that this creates in the long term? We're talking about at least four points that are very relevant for the Storting to point out and deal with in that way. Of course, it is about the stability of the future in maintenance, and it is about the quality and availability of maintenance, in order to make it so dependent on private companies – which, of course, operate under market laws – is a great opportunity to take on board a defence organisation. At the same time, competence and own organisation must be easily harmed by such a development. In addition — and this is a very fundamental issue — this is about the security aspects of the use of civil personnel, not necessarily in peacetime, but in crisis and war. What do you think about maintaining the defence organisation effectively and correctly in crisis and war, if you are so heavily dependent on civil personnel, and not on the defense's own personnel? This is a question that has been reflected over several times, and I would wish – before this debate now before Christmas comes to an end – that the Minister of Defence at least comes up here and reflects on this question. It is necessary for Stortinget to hear what the Council of State thinks about this development in the Defence's own organisation. We again had a line exchange here between Huitfeldt's representative and the Minister of Defence about this with washing – that's the third time – and again the Council of State does not have the power to explain why they are engaged in this privatisation within the framework of clean-up. It's not documented in the papers that it pays off financially, and they can't talk about quality, but it's implemented anyway. So I want to add that what happens is that the people who have worked in this organization for so many years now have to keep working there under other companies, under much worse pay and pension conditions. That's the result. Is there anything to brag about? No, of course it's not. Even a right-wing government shouldn't do that, but they do, and then I'm just saying again – and I'm saying it for the third time here in Stortinget – that the Council of State has not been able to explain properly the purpose of that part of privatisation. So, as we have also talked about, and as I have heard from several of my colleagues now commenting in their own way from the pulpit here, this is that the budget also builds up under Norway's international commitment as such, and Norway's international position. Here it is clear, in the vote and through the Chairman of the Committee and the representative of Huitfeldt, what differences there is between the Workers' Party and the Government at this point – or between the conciliation, I would say, and the Government and the Workers' Party. Because it is only through the conciliation that this gets significant results, as it now appears. In that regard, I would like to say some things. The Labour Party has, throughout its history, always, supported Norway as an independent state, and we have built the welfare state within the framework of the nation state. However, international links have also been of great importance to this national development. We have NATO membership, of course, and the EEA in recent decades. There are absolutely crucial links with Europe and the world outside of us, which have served us very well. No country will be able to further develop and secure its population without international ties and international cooperation in the future. The Corona has already been mentioned by several. How would we have dealt with this with so-called independent nation-states, without effective international cooperation? If we had not had it – as the Minister for Development was quite right – how would we have managed to deal with all the challenges facing us in the future? I will not be misunderstood: I believe that of course the national state has a clear role to play. But the future also belongs to international cooperation. Now I have tried as precisely as I can, to say what is the position of the Workers' Party towards the EEA, NATO and international cooperation – as precisely as I can. And then I hear my colleague Tetzschner, who, in his well-defined way, tries to doubt the position of the Workers' Party towards the EEA. Here, President, come what I think is within your bank list – we'll see. But I say in 'Liersk': Have you heard the husband? Again, have you heard the husband? I would like to remind the representative Tetzschner in particular, but also the whole Stortinget, that it was the Norwegian Workers' Party that established the EEA Agreement. It was our government that was at the head of it, and we took all discussions internally in our own party to just create a national consensus on the establishment of the EEA. We may disagree about much, but can we not simply be saved for that way of suspecting, in this case the representative Huitfeldt, in a completely unreasonable way? I mean that. The representative, Tetzschner, who – as I know him, and I know him well – is actually in a very safe value conservative tradition, should be concerned to a considerable extent about what he himself has been involved in today, after the conciliation with the Advance Party. It covers a number of areas which contribute to international instability rather than stability. It's not in the Right Tradition, and it must be quite tiring to have to agree to that and not be able to, and have time to defend it, as they really should.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e823	We can see that the president didn't need to use the club.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e828	It's a little interesting that the representative Navarsete makes Colonel Heier his witness of truth – this voice with its odd profile in its analyses and conclusions about the security policy situation and how we're going to align ourselves in Norway. It is not Norway that has changed behaviour in the northern regions, which has initiated the changed security policy situation. It is caused by completely different things, among other things. Russia’s strong, modernised military growth and more self-reliant behaviour. Then I would like to say that it will be a little small when the Workers' Party's defence-political spokesman, Martin Kolberg, cleans up the parade number in his post when he mentions the Defense. Joda, it's documented that it'll cost 100 million. kr more to take the cleaning team back to the Defence. There is one of the questions that even the Workers' Party has asked to the Department. Now, at the tame of a long-term planning period and at the beginning of a new one, there's a lovely opportunity to look back and make up some status of the Defense at the talking moment. When the government took over government responsibility in 2013, most of the main fighting systems were on their way into the sunset. Their lifetime was running out. This occurred in parallel with a critical minimum of spare parts and a solid maintenance kit. Eight defence budgets have been submitted with defence ministers from the Right. Symptomatic for all these budgets is that there has been a systematic build-up of defence. You had to act quickly, and you had to give priority. Already in the 2016 state budget, 301 million were allocated. kr to Sea defence for the resolute maintenance and purchase of several spare parts in order to escape the unfortunate situation communicated on Dagsrevyen up to several times, namely that the frigates were at berth, some frigates were used as part ships by others, and the entire Navy was about to cannibalise itself. Own maintenance exercises were carried out in 2017, where 5,000 material objects were repaired in three weeks. However, systematic action had to be taken — first to restore the ground wall, then to practice and train more and then to increase investment in new capacities, and that is the phase in which we are now entering. Now we see the positive results. Fighting power is increasing, and clear times are getting shorter. But there are no easy-to-purchase solutions in defence policy. Stone on stone must be built, and it will take several pouring periods. The defence budget in 2020 is 12 billion. kr over the 2016 defence budget. The defence budget has actually increased by almost 30 pst. under the government of Solberg. The job is not finished, but it is called back to Aristotle’s time that well started is half finished. The government is putting forward a defence budget with an increase of 3.5 billion. NOK 2021. We are monitoring the commitments in the long-term plan that are now being closed and in the new long-term plan. 1.4 B.C.E. kr is set aside for target missiles, there are increased payments for new maritime surveillance aircraft, the 2nd battalion is converted to mechanised brigade and all battalions are to be equipped with CV90 tanks. Finally, I would like to say that fighter aircraft acquisitions show how long it takes to phase in new systems – from the 2008 decision until we have a full 7 billion payout. NOK 2021. In the end, I would like to say that since 2008–2010 there has been a formidable investment in new homes, better living conditions, for officers and soldiers in the Defense Department, especially in Inner Troms. Since we have a Minister of Defense from Finnmark, he may not just have to hear – I have great hopes that he will be the right one at this point and make sure that the strong build-up of the defence in Finnmark is accompanied by good housing conditions for soldiers and commanders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e856	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e861	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation for putting in place a good budget, where aid and reinforced defence have been put in place. «Never more war» is a motto we have heard many times. But then the memory has to be in place, and then I dive into a single thing. On April 9, 1940, seven Norwegian Gloster Gladiator planes lighted in the morning hours from Fornebu to meet an armada of 70 German planes, in an uneven air fight. The Norwegian planes shot down five of the Germans and had to retreat. They could not land at airports, at Fornebu, and therefore land on iced waters. This operation was heroic, it is an important part of Norway's history and the course of war in Norway and is now strongly under-communicated. The Norwegian fighter pilots in their Gloster Gladiator planes got up when it was the most applicable. These were the first and only Norwegian planes that opened fire against the attackers on 9 April. It makes Gloster Gladiator the most important and most historic aircraft in Norwegian military history while Norway was neutral. In line with Oscarsborg's fastening, these planes contributed to the German invasion of Norway being so delayed that the king, the government, and the magnificence came to safety. The revised national budget also provided support and money in 2020, but now in this budget we are getting this work strengthened by 4 million. kr. The voluntary foundation that is responsible for the restoration has collected about 10 million. kr. Work must take place in England with a total cost of 22 million. kr. With this appropriation, we can ensure that a completion contract can be concluded and the work continued. Think if we get this Gladiator flying! It will convey an important part of our defence history in a few years' time. Defence and defence in the country are closely linked to a sense of history that the defence has played and plays an important role. Knowledge of World War II is important for our country both historically and as a vaccine in order to maintain peace and not take freedom for granted. This budget, of course, has great economic implications for the leaders we have put in the long-term defence plan, and this is much greater sums. I would like to spend time on it, but I think that drawing such a single thing puts the focus on how important it is to remember ‘never more war’ – and our ancestors, who have made a great effort. Historical awareness is so important for the choices we make, and for how we prioritize the defence of the country and the defence of the country as abolism and the prevention of dissatisfaction, that I chose to focus on it in this post. Then I promote the things that the Christian People's Party otherwise is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e878	To two points in the debate: first, to the more concrete thing, which concerns the old war school, which the representative Wold had in mind in his speech. Some have suggested the conditions under which Tollbugata 10 is to be transferred to this foundation, which also has money on book through private collections. From this point of view, it could be tempting to already grant, by the majority, a special amount, but I think we should leave to the Defence Building and the Ministry of Defence to clarify the detailed terms of the transfer. But to put it this way: I think we also understand that when you take over a rococopalate from the 1600s to 1700s – it was renewed under a later owner – it is also a maintenance kit that I think needs to be reflected, because you also get rid of a burden from the failures that are now apparent. Otherwise, the maturity that hasbeen there can be an example of what can be said to be a silent savings, and it brings me to the so-called red tape and efficiency cuts. It is very welcome for organisations that are used to disposal in particular, in which case there may be ‘fat deposits’ which benefit from undercompensation in individual annual budgets. But this is not something that can be a lasting reform, because at some point you have to say what is the priority. Otherwise you will find that the so-called efficiency improvement would be not to maintain, to push things in front of you, even if you on paper save what the proposers have seen. So I'd like to end by saying that there was one post that really pleased me, and that was the representative of Kolbergs. Although it was in the form addressed to me, that was exactly the commitment to the EEA agreement I have requested. However, what the Workers' Party needs is a borderline increase in relation to its dubious partners – in this context in terms of EEA – SV and the Centre Party. If you then hear the special representative of Navarsete, and if you also take the break, and the discomfort, I would say, by reading the special comments of the Centre Party, which are no more peculiar than that they are often associated with SV – when I read and hear the representative of Navarsete, at the latest here today, as the representative of the Elves was also concerned about how unwelcome allied presence in North Norway is, it strikes me that the representative of Navarsete is often SV in Nynorse.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e887	On 25 November, the Minister of Foreign Affairs met in Stockholm's Question Time. There she said that UNRWA was in a very difficult situation, and that it was important for Norway to increase the appropriations because, as she said, we are facing ‘a very dramatic development in several areas’. From the moment she pronounced it on this pulpit, it was supposed to go under a week before the Right signed a budget union that gave great cuts to UNRWA and the Palestinians. So it became more important for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and for the Right to appease the Progress Party and their unilateral support for Israel than to be with and support the Palestinians, now that they need it most, even in the year when Norway is going into the UN Security Council. In the debate today, we have also received no good answer as to why. We heard in Michael Tetzschner's first post that he was really most offended at the fact that the chairman of the committee criticized the budgetary unity. He did well to say something like that it's nice that the committee's head is engaged. I think instead of characterizing each other, we should come up with political answers. I believe that in this debate the Foreign Minister and the Right should come up and say whether they are comfortable with the cut that we have given to the Palestinians. What do they think about, in the political context we're in now, that this is being turned big into both Israeli and Palestinian media? This is serious in itself, but it is extra serious because it goes into a trend from this government. On the same week that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was told that the Norwegian-led international observers were cast out of Hebron by the Israeli government, she wrote into the government statement about Israel, which was the only country in the world that received positive mention in the government statement. That is quite right, what Harald Stanghelle wrote in the Evening Post week after that this is a solid shoulder flap from the Norwegian government to Benjamin Netanyahu's uncompromising Israel. Now we see that the same thing happens in the right hand side. In addition to the United States, only Israel is mentioned in positive order from the Right Party. When the foreign minister was challenged about this, she replied that there was only one draft. It was her only answer to that question. After all, it is not possible to interpret the Minister of Foreign Affairs in any other way than that she is really very little comfortable both with the budget cut, with what is stated in the Government Declaration, and with what is now in the Right's proposal for the party programme. I believe that then the Foreign Minister should contribute more to the debate, but with the signals we are constantly receiving, there is little reason to believe that we are going to have some changes. Because it's a paradox that while the occupation is getting worse, that the whole dream of a Palestinian state is about to disappear, we get a Norwegian policy where we both cut the Palestinians and become increasingly committed to giving political support to Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e898	I'm going to draw attention to NATO. First, however, I have to say: the representative, Mr Kolberg, is calling for the threat of Norway's defence capability to be put out to competition, or, in view of the representative's eyes, the privatisation of the defense team, and the representative has been told that it costs 100 million. to bring it back. What should threaten and be the starting point of the representative Kolberg is the nationalist stance of isolation and isolation that SV is calling for in the case of NATO, or the Central Party that believes that the UN and multilateral organisations are what should be the substitute for the EU. It should really concern the representative, Mr Kolberg, because it is these parties and their position that should be possible partners in any new government. NATO is currently providing security to nearly one billion people in 30 member countries through the alliance's collective security guarantee. To us five million Northmen, NATO itself is the cornerstone of our defence and security policy, along with our own national defence. We were among those who established NATO in 1949 – twelve Member States that then laid the foundations of the alliance – and since then NATO has guaranteed our security through Article 5 of the Alliance. I quote: ‘The Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered as an attack against all of them.’ This is where SV believes that we should sort this out ourselves, without support from others, or be so isolated that we don't even help those who have to be threatened. At the same time, NATO's credibility rests on the ability, together and individually, of the Member States to have credible deterrence and to invest in the collective defence capacity of the Alliance. Norway does. Norway is NATO in the north and shall take a significant responsibility on behalf of the alliance, also to ensure good situational understanding and control in the north. We invest in Norway in modern capacities like NATO demand, we facilitate training, and we participate in major exercises in Norway. Trident Juncture in 2018 is a very good example of that. Then more than 50,000 allied soldiers trained to defend Norway. Why does the NATO resistance of the outside left persist? Why is it so hard for SV to see the completely obvious here? Norway is a small country that cannot stand alone against the great powers of the world. On the other hand, if we stand together, just with our allies USA, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, we can crediblely deter any opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e914	I can assure the representative, Tetzschner, that SV will be in both a bookmaking and a new story. We can do that on our own. At the end of the debate, what I thought I would take the floor to say something about was linked to the vaccine debate. Now there's a new round in the WTO. The size does not use the chance today to send a clear signal to the government. We should have done that, because it is now very essential to ensure that patent rights and the maximum profit for the major pharmaceutical companies are not hindered by the fastest possible vaccination in poor countries as well. Of course, it's an important question for the people involved, but it's also a question that is important for the possibility of repatriation and speeding up the world economy as quickly as possible, and that is therefore in our own interest. It is also fair, because these companies are going to make a lot of money as it is, and they have also received considerable support from the community in many countries to develop these solutions. This is how patent rights can stand in the way of the fastest possible response to the pandemic, and therefore I must say that I am disappointed by the lack of willingness to address this, both by the government and by the Workers' Party and the Center Party. It's just to notice the very clear messages that come from those who know these issues best, for example. Legs Without Borders that have severely criticised the government's position. Otherwise, I would like to mention the svalbard budget, because there is little room in the debate when we deal with more issues at once, but a very topical question for Svalbard is the energy transition. SV proposes 20 million in our alternative budget. kr to it. We believe that the government has taken too much time, and that there is an urgent need for money to show that the big community is ready to ensure that we have a more stable and more environmentally friendly energy supply for Longyearbyen, which may also provide significant opportunities on the food and technology side of the swallowing society. In the end, I thought it was a bit special with the representative Elvenes’ mention of Tormod Heier and his ‘old profile’. I don't think it was a very respectful mention of a respected voice and a respected researcher in this debate. I rather think the government should listen a little to Heier instead of trying to define everyone who criticises the government's policy, because his message is very serious, namely that if we take a too active invitation policy towards the United States, we make ourselves less secure. Taking on seriously that counter-argument would dress the government better than trying to talk down those who put it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e927	Foreign policy comes in two versions in principle. It concerns the relationship between countries, i.e. bilateral relations, and the relationship between countries and the common challenges, problems and search for solutions. On the last agenda, we have the big issues of our time, like how we get out of the health crisis, the pandemic, how we can face a galloping climate crisis, how we can sort out a regulated international trading system again, etc. An increasing proportion of the questions raised by a country in which Norway engages are similar. Then it is important to stress that there is also an eternal struggle to maintain our close friends and allies' interest in investing in the common solutions, the common norms that apply and apply, and to preserve our belief that we are stronger together, against the assertion of populism's prophets on the contrary: that we are all stronger each one of us, whether it is called "America first", "me first" or what it should be called. This raises the question that we were also faced with last week, when the Foreign Minister gave a thorough and good account of our priorities for the Security Council. One thing is what Norway wants to get out of it, the other is to understand which world we're sitting in the Security Council for. It has occurred to me that an interesting way to approach that question is to compare 1 January 2001 with 1 January 2021. Exactly 20 years separate the two, and in both cases we entered the Security Council and were to sit there for two years. 20 days later, in 2001, we got a transition from Bill Clinton to George W. Bush and an American leadership that was significantly less than the predecessor's emphasis on multilateral cooperation, and where a very central part of our commitment was to maintain our ally's interest in international cooperation. In 2021 it's about the opposite: we're going from an even more extreme American president, Trump, to a President Biden – 20 days after we meet in the Security Council on the first day – who wants the opposite. It is incredibly important that we take seriously the great task it is, and the great opportunity it gives us to get a much better collection of what we traditionally have called the West, and a much better cooperation across the Atlantic – a narrower Atlantic – while we understand that the West's place compared to the rest continues to go down. The West isn't what the West was 20 years ago. It requires a foreign policy that has the ability to combine it at the same time to make clear and tough choices for the benefit of what we agree with most of us, and to take care of the global common arrangements that make us also have with those we agree at least, on the issues that can only be solved when everyone is involved. It will be a very exciting and interesting time to sit in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e938	The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e943	In the last minute, I'm going to use my own big-time election district to make love – that's the law. I have to because a few years ago, Rygge military airfield was threatened by cutbacks in both missions and personnel, but now Rygge is important for our national anti-terrorism preparedness, and so seen one of the three major airports. It is the importance of defence in my own home district, but it is also important for the whole country. It's also important as part of what's in NATO's tasks. The new long-term plan for the defence sector emphasises precisely the importance of Rugge's role in defence. The base gets its old name back, Rygge Air Station, and becomes one of the three most important bases of Air Force. In 2018, the government created 134 Luftving on Rygge, with responsibility for, among others. 335 squadrons and Hercules planes. And last year the helicopters at Back were organized in a new department called SOAS 339. It's a lot of joy, but it's also a joy to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e951	There is a broad debate and, as many have pointed out, there is a broad consensus on both foreign and defence policy in Norway. However, I would like to make some comments on some of this where I think it is very important that Norway now has a steady position. It concerns our international commitment and our international operations. I will support the government in the clear support provided by Norway through the Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan, as well as the strength contribution we make in Iraq. In Afghanistan, where we have the Special Forces of Defence, where we have sanitary staff and also staff officers, Norway has also for a long time provided very important support to the Afghan Special Police, a model that many other countries are learning from. It is extremely important that we now continue this support and keep a clear line with our allies that we should remain in the NATO cooperation that is both in Afghanistan and in Iraq. The United States is withdrawing forces, after Christmas there will only be 2,500, and 8 000 to 10,000 combined by international forces in Afghanistan – this in a situation where peace talks have just moved into a more formal phase. I must say that I am then responding to the SV's proposal to cut the Norwegian forces' contribution to security in Afghanistan and Iraq. I believe that the cuts are irresponsible and will help to weaken the conditions for democracy and development in the two countries. Not only will it be a loss for Norway’s international reputation, but it will also weaken the security situation in the two countries. This is, of course, a prerequisite both for supporting the peace talks in Afghanistan and also for supporting the democratic development of Iraq. I also think this is a lack of respect for the 9 000 Norwegian veterans who have been in Afghanistan since 2001. A lot of things have gone wrong, but there is also a lot of things that have gone in the right direction, with the possibility of education, with the possibility of economic development and the possibility of a free press, which we need to support in a very decisive situation. It would be completely wrong to stand out as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e962	The budget debate is like the acidiest one to see if there is any correlation between what the parties propose in the long-term plan and in their alternative state budget. And if you take a little deep dive in the Central Party's state budget, you immediately see the absence of long-range air protection, which the party tried to make into a parade number in the treatment of the long-term plan. That's understandable, because it's 20 billion. NOK, and even the Center Party may have problems coughing up $20 billion. kr every now and then. In the long-term plan, the Senterpartiet also proposed a new Brigade in South Norway. It wasn't supposed to be the brigades the head of defense recommended, it's a motorized infantry brigade, but apparently another brigade of some form. But now it's like a brigade must contain a certain number of battalions, both manoeuvring battalions and supporting battalions. Where are these battalions? Where are the battalions? Where is the staff? Where's the personal equipment? And where's the money? In any case, it is not possible to establish a 200 million brigade. And then you set aside $20 million. kr in the State budget for 2021. Again: What is to be included in this Brigade? Is that Telemark battalion? As far as I know, telemark battalion belongs to Brig N. So where is the substance of this? Where are the departments? You don't get a brigade in South Norway by putting a new name for what exists in South Norway by land-military forces. When I heard Mr. Navarsete's contribution, I asked myself the question: Does the representative and the party of the Central Party have an understanding of being ally? To be ally means to set up for each other. Norway is NATO in the North, and we have a self-interest in the fact that the Allies are in our neighbourhoods. Then we should remember that the allied presence in the northern regions is not only linked to the bilateral element between Norway and our allies – the allies also have a self-interest in being in the north, for example. to maintain the free navigation law enshrined in the law of the sea. We have strengthened our national defences, which, of course, the Central Party will not realize, and we are strengthening our ally's cooperation. It's this combination that makes us now have a better defense and a stronger ability to both deter and defend our territory if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e981	One could read in the media recently that Right has pointed out the Centre as the main opponent. It's going to be possible to right some of the reasons from the Right in this room, but it's pretty easy, and that's how we've listened many times before, so I don't take the time to comment on it today. I see it's the same thing in the media around. I would rather use the time for a daily matter that the representative Enger Mehl raised in the reply, for once again there is a matter of ownership of Svalbard. The last time this came up, in 2016, the Senterpartiet was a strong driver for the state to use the ability to buy the area that was then available for sale. One could have bought the rights to extract coal, but it didn't. The fact that one has not shown interest, has opened the possibility to others, and according to the Evening Post and other media, there is now a danger that it may end up in the hands of China or Russia. The central party believes it is important, especially important, that Norway does not give up any land or rights to extract natural resources on Svalbard. We know that China is a state that is actively working for influence in the Arctic. This is where Norway must be on guard. It is important that Norway is actively working for the north to be a low-voltage area, something that some people do well to chat with in this room today, but that we insist is very important. In that context, such an option to allow the hall to China or Russia may have major consequences in addition to the hall itself, and the government cannot sleep on the watch. The responsibility for svalbard policy is shared between four departments: the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is responsible for ownership and nutrition; the Ministry of Justice owns Svalbard – if one can use the words, the Ministry of Climate and Environment regulates climate action, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs controls the foreign policy aspects. It is therefore wrong when the Minister for Foreign Affairs dismisses the questions put by the representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, that this is not her responsibility. This is, at most, a foreign policy question. Norwegian national control of Svalbard is important, and the Central Party believes that national security and self-determination are the reward in this matter. The state can not only assess whether the extraction of coal gives wages, but one has to see what consequences besides profitability it can have that a power power that defines itself as a near-arctic state gets attached to Svalbard. This is a foreign policy issue at least as much as a business one, and I would like to make the right foreign minister a little more comfortable for the government's views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e998	The representative of Rivers and the representative of Schou characterizes my commitment to those who wash in the Defense, in what I would call a slight political harpsichord. I guess you could just expect that from representatives from the right. I had not waited for any support from them on this, but now I come for my part from the Workers' Party and have, of course, a commitment to what are workers also in the Defence. That they must suffer for this policy, I record that they think it's too small to talk about from the Stockholm pulpit. I did not take the washing up as my main concern, I took up the entire privatisation case of the Defence Organisation as my main concern. I notice that neither representatives Schou, Tetzschner, nor Elvenes, who are the main spokesperson for the defence issues, comment on the question at all. Nor has the Council of State made it now, at least not in this debate. That's once again the same thing we've experienced in all of these cross paths every time we raise this question. It's a serious question, but it's not being answered. Several Right-Representatives characterize our relationship with the Center Party. At this point, I have advice to the representatives of the government parties, especially to the Christian People's Party and the Left, but also to the Right: I would have been very careful to take this in characterizing tone cases, as it is done, once again having agreed with the Advance Party. The Progress Party therefore states – and this should be noted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that human rights are an internal issue. It's in direct contradiction with what the Foreign Minister says. They believe, in very clear order, that the sanctions against Russia are not correct. It's the coalition partner of the Right. Then I would be a little careful in the characterization of our relationship with the Center Party. Now I get to say this at the end, because I have to say that there are a lot of cuts in this I think is crazy and unreasonable, but these cuts we get in relation to the Palestinians were not to happen in Norway. I understand that the Christian People's Party is trying to stay away – the Left too – and to comment on it at all in this debate. This is the price they probably had to pay to maintain the one-percentage, but it's a pretty expensive price, considering the political position of these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1009	It is difficult to understand what is the development policy of this government. After two years with Dag-Inge Ulstein, there is hardly a single case for the Stortinget, and in budgetary matters we see a jojo policy, in which it is argued that cutting one year will give appropriations for the second year. I think we got the most obvious illustration in the line change, where they're going to say that a cut of 86 million. kr shall be compensated for by an increase of 26. Nevertheless, they are unable to admit that it means less money for the work of the Workers' Party. The Labour Party wants a clearer priority in development policy. We are the guarantors of a high level of assistance, where we want Norway to give more priority to where we can contribute to making the greatest difference. It's about fair distribution, it's about women's right to decide over their own bodies, and it's about climate policy. And I'll say a little bit more about climate policy. We have renewable energy in our budget as our big investment. The working party is the party that definitely gives the most to it. We have here, together with the other opposition parties, previously proposed that Norway contribute a package, both with money and with political and technical expertise and advice, with our experience of renewable energy to developing countries, so that they can skip the fossil age and go straight into the renewable. It could have been a major Norwegian initiative, in line with the rainforest and vaccine initiative. Unfortunately, the government has rejected it. And not only are no new initiatives taken, no, there are cutbacks every year from this government when it comes to supporting renewable energy and climate. So, despite promises of increases, under Erna Solberg, we have received a halve of what was the support for renewable energy under the red-green government. We should have had eight years of increase, instead we've been cut. I know that the Minister of Development personally has a great commitment to this, for when he was to warn against the Christian People's Party going into the government of Erna Solberg, he said: Meeting climate change does not help draw the ladder up after us. No, let's get up and do everything we can. The more I read about climate change, the more desperate I am, and then I dare to guarantee you: here we will get more in cooperation with the centre-left. Day-Inge Ulstein got quite right. He had got a lot more in collaboration with the center-left. But because he's been in alliances with the Right and the Advance Party, it's been cut. Now we got another 200 million cuts. kr to the UN Green Climate Fund. They say again that this is only a postponement, but it is absolutely true that the climate negotiator of the world's poorest countries says: this is serious because it poses a threat, and because it probably leads to other countries following Norway. In development policy, there is a need for a new majority and a government that has clearer and clearer priorities for climate, fairer distribution and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1027	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1032	The representative Kolberg was a little indignant, but I'll try to help him out a little bit. The problem with the Labour Party's almost a little neurotic relationship with the privatisation concept is that the Workers' Party defines it itself so unclear. We also see the same resistance in the Workers' Party when we talk about using private suppliers to a greater extent related to workshop services. We had that discussion in the state budget last year. But then I have to remind the representative of Kolberg that when it comes to the maintenance of the new field cars, there are large civil workshops. And if we're going to be able to exploit our entire defence resources, we're, within a total defence concept, totally dependent on being able to use private suppliers. So I want a little clarification from the representative Kolberg: where is the boundary going? Does the clean-up limit go, or does it go to other forms of defence support?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1037	I'll say a little about Svalbard. I have had the opportunity to travel a lot around Svalbard, both because of my previous job as a producer of natural films – it's a fantastic island – and as a guide to a lot of expedition cruises around the island group. This is an area we're proud of, we call it the 'last wilderness of Europe' many times, and then we say that it's the area in Norway that's going to be purest, that's what we're going to boast, and we've managed to get very much in the form of national parks, etc. Large parts of the Svalbard archipelago are now national parks. We're happy about that, and I'm proud of that. But when we come from the airport and drive into Longyearbyen, towards the center, it's not a parade street, which very many countries have into the center of an airport, often it's perhaps the most beautiful, the most prestigious. Even in developing countries, in developing areas, it is perhaps where it is the most expensive. So on our way to Longyearbyen, we meet something that we shouldn't be proud of. One thing is the environment there, which may not be the most beautiful thing on Svalbard, to say it mildly, but the other is that we meet black smoke. So we're meeting a power plant there, a district heating plant, powered by coal. This is gross, and it's not exactly a good advertisement for Norway outside. That's how we accept our tourists. Also, the cruise tourists who land there – under normal conditions for thousands – must pass this black smoke, and that is what we are showing. When coal is gradually added aside – for natural reasons, I don't have time to get into it now, but we have one mine left for local production, for local use – it's tourism and research that takes over Svalbard. And when that's how tourists meet, with such a visual expression, and also with such a way to solve the energy needs in Longyearbyen, it's sad. Now the local government has been busy for a long time to get a battery park there. My colleague Lysbakken mentioned this well in one of his posts, I think, and SV has thus spent money on it in its alternative budget, 20 million. NOK, and I had hoped that several parties had gone in for this now. We want a battery park to take the tops of the power consumption. This varies greatly between summer and winter. So that would have brought down the emissions here by 20 pst. Pretty soon. This would have meant that the maintenance costs had fallen very much on the plant that is there, and it would have been a meeting of a local requirement. So I hope that the House thinks about this at least for the next budgets, and that would also be quite important in relation to a Norwegian tourist industry and how we look outward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1048	I have just a small comment on a question that came from a representative of the Workers' Party, because it does not mean correctness when it appears that the government does not deliver on both the ambitions and the clear priorities that are there, related to renewable energy. So it's almost 1.7 billion. new, fresh crowns are added to Norfund, where half of it is related to renewable energy. We have a In addition, we contribute to the World Bank and other regional financial institutions and the African Bank, which in fact also contribute significantly to renewable energy. When it comes to collaborators – the representative Lysbakken was up here earlier today, and they have actually cut to Norfund, cut to the African Bank, cut to other people who are just going to renewable energy, in their budget, so if we're going to talk about it, I think one has to look a little in the mirror, look at them as one wants to cooperate with, also on these points. So it's like we've been working on and submitting an investigation related to a climate fund, which is going to be able to get a huge significance given what the representative here is asking for. So I have to say that I think it's a little entertaining when it's maybe one of the most attacking us for, are the smaller adjustments that have come after the budgetary union with the Progress Party. This could indicate that one was very pleased with what was in the original proposal. I'm incredibly proud of the consensus we've had in the government, and that we're taking care of both the percentage and the priorities and the devices that are actually there. Finally, in terms of sexual health and rights, we committed ourselves to an increase of SRHR of 700 million. kr for the period 2017-2020, a target that was achieved one year in advance, and it is such that the figures that the representative here promises are not correct, because one does not take into account what was contained in our original budget. That's why the numbers aren't right, as they are, and there are different items that actually contribute to that work being done. Our commitments are firm, and we're going to give it priority in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1061	Let me touch three themes quickly. One is the question of Svalbard and any Chinese interest. I did not dismiss the representative Enger Mehl, but I explained quite clearly what was inside of me, and what was within the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State. I repeat my main point, that having a goal doesn't give ownership to the bottom. So this Austre Adventfjord, which is currently involved in this conversation, is owned by the State at the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, so that a goal does not give either ownership or guarantee of the right to extraction. So to a couple of questions related to support for the Palestinians: I understand the commitment of the Aukrus representative, and we share a lot of that commitment, but I expect a big-time representative not to speak falsely. So it is not limited to UNRWA, either in the draft budget by the government or in the budget agreement with the Progress Party. On the contrary, we have increased total aid to the Palestinians from last year to this year. Last year it was approx. 844 million. Total, by humanitarian means, direct budget support, etc., this year's figure is about Ninety-four million. kr. When the representative Auchrus goes out in his post and says that there will be a large cut to UNRWA, it is simply not right. I expect that when we have this debate, we will have to deal with the realities. In addition to what is already in the budget, large increases have also been made in areas that will also benefit Palestinian refugees in many countries, whether in terms of an increase of 500 million. kr in core support for the World Food Programme, 300 million. kr to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees or 100 million. additional to stabilisation of vulnerable countries, which have a significant impact in this context, as some examples. UNRWA is simply not mentioned anywhere, and then I also expect it to be reflected in the posts that are coming. In the end: EEA funds. The representative, Enger Mehl, tries in many ways to ridicule EEA funds, but the reality is that our support for civil society in Europe is noticed, and that is a difference, especially for the voluntary organisations working with minority rights, whether it be LHBTI or others. Within the Justice Programme, for example: projects assisting women who are victims of violence. The Roma population is still at risk, and here our support, among other things. improving health services and education. We also work together on criminal care, innovation, industry, climate, energy, civil society and justice. That's what we're working with, among other things. Poland, through the EEA funds, and there is important support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1077	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1082	No, the limit does not, of course, apply when washing in the Defense Department. The limit is because the range can be too large. The working party has never been, is not and will not object to the defence being in cooperation with the private sector. It's not possible, it's not possible. But that's the extent of what we're now seeing, which we're concerned about. One example, which the representative of Harek Riveres should also be very concerned about, is that a large part of the development of defence ICT services is now privately available. It expresses great concern to the defense itself. I've heard it say many times, of people who have many more stars on their shoulders than what I'm ever going to get. That is why this concern should be taken seriously. But now the Minister of Defence will have the floor, and it is possible that he can secure the size of this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1089	Now we're approaching the time when there's only one star that applies, and that's what we see over the roof where a midwife Matja lives. The representative Kolberg and I have discussed the service supplies in the Defence Department a number of times. There are some statements that the representative Kolberg repeats over and over again, which I must be allowed to object. Kolberg says that there is evidence that there is a privatised activity and that there is evidence that there are worse services being provided. No, that's not it. There is no evidence that there are worse services being provided. What's documented is that we're saving 100 million. kr per year to outsource cleaning, and there is evidence that private civil suppliers are doing this more effectively than Defence Building was able to do when they were responsible for it. It's documented. It is not documented whether the cleaning team is worse or better than it was when Defence Building had it, because it was not measured that way when Defence Building had it. But now we can measure the quality of the cleanness and point out the places where it's not like we want it. It's an important part of our mobilization defense that we have good strategic agreements, that we use civilian suppliers in peacetime, and there's a framework of international law for how to do it in crisis and war. That's why I'm sure we now have a good balance in this. So to the representatives of Lysbakken and Navarsete, who want a clearer presence in the press areas of Russia, and we believe that we are on the wrong course there. No, we have developed the Nordic defence work, and we have developed defence cooperation with Sweden and Finland, especially in the north, with seven-mile steps in recent years. We have done this by being clear in our role as NATO member and respecting the fact that there are two countries that are no longer referred to as neutral countries, as they were before, but which are referred to as non-aligned countries, but are part of Western defence cooperation. We have done so in an overall understanding that the analysis we are making of the security situation also shares the other Nordic countries. Finally, to the discussion around the Security Council: I have great respect for the fact that we are discussing something as important as our membership of the Security Council in this Chamber. For the defence, there are quite a number of themes that will be important for us to participate in here. Sexualized violence against women in crisis and war is something we work very well with and know a lot about. International law – our forces are out there and are adding international law and the right to war zones when we mentor soldiers outside – it becomes an important field. Support and competence for building the capabilities of the UN Peacekeeping Forces will become a third part to which it is important for the Defence to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1114	Representative Åsmund Aukrust has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1119	I should be flattered when both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development used their summarizing remarks to say that I was completely wrong in my posts. To the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Neither from the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor from any of the representatives of the Right has there been an answer to the question in the debate: what does the government think about the signals that have come from the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, where there has been a great deal of cutbacks to the Palestinians? It's been turned up extensively in both Palestinian and Israeli media. What kind of signal does the Foreign Minister think it's sending in the international context we're in? This is reflected in the pattern in which the Norwegian government – with the right in mind, also in its own party programme – is increasingly giving more political support to Israel and more cuts to the Palestinians. So Dag Inge Ulstein thought it was completely wrong that it was cut to renewable energy. Well, there's nothing the Workers' Party has invented. It is something that comes in response from the minister himself to the Stortinget. It is quoted in the Stortinget settings where these answers come from. They come from the government itself, where they say that measured in 2021 kroner, there is a halve of renewable energy support compared to what it was under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1128	Although it is that you cannot extract minerals without delay, even if you buy a right to do so, because you have to get permits, etc., there is something in that right, because if it wasn't, it wouldn't be saleable. And if I have not understood the law completely wrong, the purchase of such a right will mean that you are entitled to apply for an operating concession. Say that China buys the rights and that they can apply for an operating concession. Then the question is: can the State reject the operating concession on the basis of the fact that China is the applicant, or that Russia is the applicant, and will the government do it? These are the questions you really have to decide before you allow them to have access to the rights at all. If not, you can end up in a situation where suddenly you have given Chinese or Russian interests the opportunity to operate coal mining on Svalbard and thus control natural resources on Svalbard, because you do not have the law to refuse it after the rights have been sold first. Then there's just a brief comment about the EEA funds. The centre party has not said that we want to wind up the scheme with EEA funds, and also believes that it is right to use something on it until further notice. But six billion. NOK is quite a lot of money. Our message has been, as we have also suggested, that we should now enter a new period of EEA funding, and the government should negotiate with the EU on how much that sum should be. We believe that it must be reduced and we believe that the own aid scheme for which Norway has to pay in addition to the common organisation of the market with the EFTA countries should be phased out, because we believe that the amounts sent to, among other things. Poland and Hungary — which I have used as an example here, there are many more countries — are disproportionately large. The Minister of Assistance spoke in his speech about tough priorities, especially in the light of the covid-19 crisis, and then we simply believe that this is a matter of priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1138	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1 to 6. After the wishes of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the matter will be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. 7 and 8 will be treated below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1168	After the wishes of the Labour and Social Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red Party 5 minutes. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the party and members of the government. In addition, those who may subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1177	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough work on the position and, not least, thank our members of the committee secretariat, who have brought forward this position as we would like, despite a hectic end with shorter deadlines than was planned. The budget of the Labour and Social Committee is over 511 billion. kr and represents the base wall of the welfare country: the possibility of work and safety for those who are not at work. 2020 will be remembered as a demanding year. Thousands have been on leave or have lost their job. Businesses have had to shut down, and parents have set up as auxiliary teachers from the living room table at home, while the usual work had to be done from the same living room table. Not least, it has been demanding for all those who have been in the first line: shop workers, bus drivers, kindergarten workers and not least all who work in the health care system. Receiving a notice of termination or termination creates uncertainty as to what the future brings. It's demanding for the individual, and it challenges us as a society. The crisis has gone awry. The lowest-income have been affected by a special form of leave and dismissal. Those who were already out of work have an even more difficult situation. In all crises, the community must stand firm, but in a crisis in which the great unemployment is a consequence of our common fight against infection, the community's responsibility to ensure justice is even greater. After ensuring life and health, the most important thing we do is to prevent people from falling permanently out of work, and that differences increase as a result of the crisis. Even before the pandemic, the Labour Party was concerned about the development of working life: The proportion of the population in employment has fallen over time. Under today's government, there have been 50,000 more disabled people, and the number of disabled people under 30 has doubled. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find jobs for people with low levels of education. In 2019, among persons over 20 years of age who have not completed secondary education, less than six out of ten were in work. We continue to see that women are significantly less involved in work than men, and that they need to thank part-time jobs to a greater extent, even though they prefer to have a full job. It creates consequences for the life you live now, but it will also create consequences into the pension system. With the challenges we face, more needs to be done to reduce unemployment and to ensure people's economic security. As we now experience high unemployment rates, we see that the average number of participants in employment-oriented measures will be lower in 2020 than it has been in more than ten years. The Labour Party has therefore presented a draft budget which spends more money on what is most important. We give priority to income and work for ordinary people rather than tax credits for business owners. We in the Workers' Party believe that the community needs to be more forceful in order to help the unemployed and to have a permit back to work. We therefore propose to provide funds for the creation of 4,000 more sites for action and 300 more permanent jobs. We're going to spend 130 million. kr to strengthen Nav's follow-up of the vacant and permitted, and an additional 50 million. to strengthen Nav's follow-up of young users. In order to provide companies with better opportunities to choose training rather than permacy, we will allocate funds to in-company training, a pilot for training in industry 4.0, and not least a party-led fund for competence development. Even with stronger measures to reduce unemployment, many will remain unemployed as long as the pandemic continues. The time has not come to remove the additional safety net that was put in place in March 2020. The arrangements must last for as long as the crisis persists. The monthly changes create insecurity for people, and that prevents good solutions. A jojo policy doesn't fit in with a crisis. Before the summer of 2021, it is hoped that many of the thousands of workers who have been posted and unemployed are back to work, but it is a price to pay for those who return to work before the holiday. The income of the holiday month is almost gone because the daily allowance does not provide a holiday supplement, and the holiday law, as you know, requires you to take a vacation. Many farms shut down completely during the holiday month, kindergarten stops, SFO stops. Many won't be able to work in the holiday month, as we hear Right people recommend to do. It's not only fundamentally unfair, it's also unwise for a hard-pressed travel industry to lose thousands of customers when they need it the most. The working party proposes to reintroduce the holiday supplement on daily pay and to put almost 3 billion. This is what we have in our draft budget. That's 3 billion. kr to those who have been severely affected by the crisis. It doesn't keep talking about hard work in the face of a crisis. We must also give priority to this when we adopt the budget. Many Nav employees have had a tough year. There were a lot of applications to be handled in a short time. There is reason to thank all the employees who have been on the way to meeting the pandemic challenges. But there's also reason to ask yourself what was done to prepare for the pandemic. It was not known that a pandemic could come. A society full of infectious disease must have consequences. What were the income insurance plans for freelancers, for self-employed workers, for apprentices, for students, for businesses that had to close down, and for parents who had to be at home with young people who were to be taught at home? There is reason to ask why there was no better coherence between the measures being implemented and the arrangements needed. We started the year with a scandal. Misinterpretation of the legislation for those who brought sick pay, redundancy, etc. out of the country, had a significant financial impact on many individuals. The claims of the Social Security Court were ignored even if the department was notified. People got a prison sentence and collected money they should have had. The matter has not been concluded, but it has in many ways come into the shadow of the corona. Those who have been wronged must not feel that they have come into the shadow. Until that's the case, it's too serious. We started the year with a scandal, and we end it in the middle of a crisis. At the latest today, we heard that the unemployment rate is rising again. Young people, immigrants and those with little education are hit hardest. Even a vaccine cannot save all jobs or fines in a year when the incomes of too many have fallen dramatically. It's our job to make sure that we do what we can to minimise the consequences. A crisis is rife, and with almost 200,000 total or partial jobless at the beginning of 2021, the main priority of the Workers' Party – as always – will be to put workers first. I would like to take up with it the proposals on which the Workers' Party is either part or stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1232	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1239	The right has been continuously accused of “ussocial cuts” when we have targeted and changed the device to different benefits and support schemes, and it may be good to know if the Workers’ Party intends to reverse all those changes, such as: the change in the AAP scheme against which they have voted, and reset it to what it was when it was referred to as ‘a treadmill out of work’. Will they remove the ceiling of the spectacle stand? Will they reintroduce the unfair diagnostic list that allocated services to some patient groups rather than others? Will they raise the benefit of young people on the AAP, so they get more income than peers? Will they expand and erode the daily allowances, so that they are less targeted than after the changes in 2017? Will they increase support for coliaki, reintroduce support for non-celiaki? It should be quite simple for the Workers' Party, which has continually called all of these non-social cuts, to answer yes to the fact that they will reverse all these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1246	Yes, the Labour Party has accused the government of a number of unsocial cuts, that's absolutely right. The representative Nordby Lunde lists all of them here, and I can promise that we're going to work hard to get back into place more socially equitable arrangements. We don't want the AAP to be cut after three years, as the government suggests, so that there will be a treadmill out in disability or private living. We want parents who have kids who require special spectacle adjustments to get a better order than what's now. But it's quite clear that after eight years of right-wing government, it will take time before we can sort out all the Ugreia that is created. And I'm going to promise you that with the Workers' Party in the government, we'll work hard to get back into place the vast majority of the arrangements in which the government has cut, because it's unsocial, and it hits people in a way that we think is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1253	Then I have been confirmed that the Workers' Party wants to reverse the arrangements back to when they functioned poorly, and acted as a roller band out of work and into the outside world. Last week, the Labour Party voted against changes in survivors' benefits, where we changed a permanent survivor's pension for them at my age, i.e. people born after 1971, to become a conversion benefit, so that relatively young women can get help to get back into work and get their own pension, instead of living on a passive benefit that leads them straight to the minimum pension. Why is the Workers' Party opposed to people being self-held through conversion support, and will the Workers' Party also guarantee to reverse this social benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1260	It's absolutely right that we voted against it last week. We believe that the measures put forward by the government to help people get back to work are not sufficient. We see that there are many more people who have come upon disability now, and that is not good. There are many more people who do not get action through the Nav system. There are fewer response sites now than there were ten years ago in the Nav system. There are hardly any others who have Nav actions in terms of follow-up through action sites, etc., even in a year when the crisis is huge. So, for the Workers' Party, it's important to get people back to work, get more involved in vocational education, get people not to drop out of high school so much, and not least to help those who need to get back to work – whether they're 18 or 40 years old – and then there's got to be more emphasis on it than this government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1265	I notice that the Workers' Party also wants to reverse the changes in survivors' benefits, so that young women remain on permanent benefits instead of reversing to return to work. For the right, the main priority we have in this budget is to create more and include more in the labour market. The biggest post within work and inclusion that I could find in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget is to reintroduce a holiday allowance that we removed in 2015, because it was little targeted and does not hit them it was intended to help. For us, it's important to help people get back to work. And as the scheme worked, it would be so next year that those who may be long-term unemployed or on leave will lose their daily allowance when they leave, because then they will have to report it to Nav and be pulled when they leave, and then they will get a supplement in January 2022. Does the representative Aasrud think it is social and sustainable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1272	Yeah, that's what the representative Aasrud thinks. But the representative Nordby Lunde has no ambition that the 200,000 who are out of work now will return to work in the course of 2021. If you come back to work in May 2021, it is not useful to say that you should have a daily allowance during the holiday month, but the holiday law says that you have to take a vacation. This is where the right does not have the context in its argument relating to holiday money. It's just those people who go on a day's payroll when July comes, for whom you're going to solve this. It is a small fraction of all those who have been out of work throughout 2020 and who have received a daily allowance. They don't get any of the day money when the holiday month comes. This is where the Right is completely wrong about its attitude towards holiday money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1277	Unemployment is terrifying, and the worst is for those with the weakest connection to the world of work. The work clearance system is functioning poorly, and there are many reasons for this. The fact is that those who are able to work more than 50 pst. are having a very difficult time. They don't get a job, and they can't compete in the labour market. The centre party believes that wage subsidies to enterprises employing people with partial working capacity are among the best-functioning measures, after all, and we are therefore proposing 10,000 new places. Why does the Workers' Party not support such a measure which will increase the demand for these workers by enterprises? After all, we need to increase demand in order to get throughflows and to get orderly conditions in the work clearance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1285	The Working Party has made several contributions to action under the Nav regime, and they can be used in different ways. Wages and salaries supplements can be one thing. Work-preparing training can be another thing. We are not bound up to what to spend the money on. It's important to spend the money where they hit best. For some, wage subsidies will be a good measure, and for others, other measures will be appropriate. We believe that here Nav must have the power to shape the actions they think are best and fit the target group that is in the system at all times, in a way that gives them the greatest opportunity to return to normal work. Some will need grants in order to work for a longer period of time. We have not opposed that, and we have put more money into our budgets to strengthen the action budget of Nav. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1290	The working party uses a lot of text in the budget setting to rewrite an involuntary part-time job. We're probably certain that fixed and whole settings should be the general rule of the world of work, but it seems that the Labour Party is left in a practice that was used a lot for ten years ago and longer than that, and that the trade unions have now left, for good reason. If a health professional is assigned to a nursing home and works in 60 pst. job, is offered an additional job, but does the Labour Party simply say no because it is too hard to work in a higher job percentage where she works, does it mean that this is involuntary or voluntary part-time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1297	I agree with the representative Lerbreck that it is important that we focus on those who want to work more, but too many who work, among other things. in the health care system, everyday life is quite heavy. Therefore, municipalities and hospitals need more money so that they can increase staffing both in the home and in hospitals in the municipalities. I think we have to respect that someone thinks it's heavy, and that they can't do it. If the manning is very low, it can be demanding for people to stand in it. Therefore, I think we should start at the other end and not discuss whether it is involuntary or voluntary part-time that is the most important, but we have to make sure that those who want to work have the opportunity, and that it is not so demanding that you cannot do it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1302	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1307	Yesterday there were enough people who thought they had confirmed their prejudices against the government when the NRK reported that Norway fell on the UN's list of the world's best countries to live in. From topping the list for years, Norway fell to sixteenth place on the so-called Human Development Index, which in this context is about extending human choices. The index uses parameters such as health, standard of living, level of education and gross domestic product divided by population. In the last seven years, the opposition has used every opportunity to claim that the government is building down the welfare state stone by stone. In January, the head of the Workers' Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, wrote that society is about to go up in the glue. The Gharakhani lotion later followed up with a chronicle that Norwegian cohesion was in the process of disintegrating. Rakne! It is as if the Labour Party is trying to encourage it – the labour society, Difference Norway, Part-time Norway, a working life that needs to be cleaned up through more prohibitions, regulations and restrictions. In the debate on survivors' benefits last week, it was claimed that none of us can put ourselves into the situation of those who have it difficult, and that those who get ugly smiles in life are not represented in the corridors of power. It made a relatively small impression on the hall when the Council of State said he was a 15-year-old who lost his father, and that his mother then chose to return to a working life she herself had been out of for 20 years. She could have become a passive survivor, which would lead to a life as a minimum pensioner. The benefit is now changed, against the votes of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, to a conversion benefit that makes it easier for more people to do as the mother of the Council of State and become self-sufficient and self-employed with their own earned pension. In the debate, the representative Arild Grande reacted to the use of words from the right and called the argument to become the self-driving wheel of a fig leaf of social policy. Thanks to the referees for documenting what is actually being said in here, because my friends don't believe me when I refer to the debates in the hall. Changes in a passive survivor's benefit, which mainly lead women into a minimum pension, to a conversion benefit, are usually produced as an unsocial cut. It's despite the fact that we know that the biggest difference in Norway between those who have, and those who don't have, is having a job. Self-driving is not a fig leaf for Right Policy. It's the very core of our policy, which is that the community is there to raise the individual, not the other way around. In the same debate, the representative Lundteg said that the undersigned is a good representative of the resource forces – implicitly: only represents the resource strengths. Of course, everyone in this room is resource strong. No matter what life has given us, we have, after all, come here. Maybe it's because my mom beat when I was a kid that I ended up here. And she didn't hit because she was bad – she was probably worried, frustrated and struggling not to be alone with then two children. She stopped working before the third party was born, but I do not write books that Mom is insured for that reason. But I recently used my 45-year-old sister as an example of a vulnerable group who has problems getting into the housing market in Oslo because of a overregulated housing market where the city council is not building enough to meet demand. The man she rented with, spent the night in the basement when he was in Oslo, and locked herself in her apartment to shower when she was not present. When Grandma was divorced by the sentence, she had no other option than to send her little daughter away as a lone parent in Oslo. So my mother grew up on the farm with her grandparents in Troms, while Grandma worked as a maid and a waitress to earn enough money to get her daughter back. My mother never forgave her mother, but Grandma worked in low-paid jobs all her life to serve for the rest of her life. The last pension payment before she died this summer was at a few thousand times more than the woman who is now the minimum pensioner, after being cared for by her spouse with her children. Just retirement is for me more than just the payments. But even with underregulated retirement, Grandma lived so carefully that she was able to impose on herself a wealth tax. Since on the right hand side we live completely disconnected from reality, we only want to cut the wealth tax to make the rich richer. The idea that we are concerned with public sector resource use through, inter alia: The ABE reform and keeping the tax burden of respect for other people's hard-earned money is, of course, unimaginable. Back to the UN Human Development Index: it turned out that measured with the same parameters that previously rank Norway after seven years with a Right-led government still on top. But adjusted for environmental impact, we're falling. That in itself should be an argument for transforming the public sector in order to make us less dependent on oil money. When the Right is talking about sustainable welfare, it's about more than economics. It's just about expanding individual people's choices, as the UN Index shows that we are actually doing – because we're betting on knowledge in school, patients' health care, a working life that creates more and includes more, and a robust welfare state with benefits and schemes that can support us through even global, deadly pandemics. The welfare state is most important for those who are already vulnerable, whether they are in the first line, or they fall outside. After seven years of right-wing government, we entered this year with a historically low unemployment where companies all over the country told us that lack of skilled labour was the biggest barrier to growth. This was known to turn around overnight on March 12, and after that, our welfare system has been stressed in all sorts of ways, and we don't know if we've passed yet. On most scales, Norway has managed the crisis better than we can compare with, but the pandemic has had the same effect on the Norwegian economy as the policy of the left. They will build up Norwegian oil and gas, ban parts of the cruise industry, tax air travel to limit air traffic and limit the use of the private sector in order to solve tasks on behalf of the public. A Norway in a state of crisis is about the closest we're going to go to SV's program without having an SV in government. If we then add to the radical increase in taxes and taxes to businesses and investors to create the jobs and values that build our society, it will lead to more unemployment, fewer tax revenues and thus less use to strengthen the welfare state. I think those who are outlawed and unemployed, those who see the work of life bewildering and the incomes disappear, deserve better. Most people want to go back to normal, where the state withdraws and the crisis packages stop. This is why the year's budget is designed for a new normal but focused on labour market measures to get people back to work. We're increasing our efforts so that more unemployed people can get into work faster, so that unemployment doesn't get stuck at a high level. Examples of measures include training, work training and wage subsidies. The increase also strengthens inclusion capacity and a strengthened youth effort, including: through support for individual job support, so that more people with mental and drug problems can fit into their working life. We provide more training coordinators in Nav, which help to provide more people with the necessary skills, and also strengthen the follow-up of young recipients of the AAP. A well-organised working life with full permanent jobs and decent pay and employment is a good thing for individuals, for businesses and for society at large. A new study by the Institute for Social Research shows that there have been no more temporary employment under this government, and that temporary employment is now more likely to serve as a springboard for permanent work than before. The proportion of part-time jobs has fallen below this government, without saying we are satisfied with that reason. Action against labour crime has been stepped up sharply by the establishment of seven centres against labour crime, stricter penalties and higher fines for those who break laws and regulations. The effort to combat theft of wages is also stepped up, and both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority are given more resources, which was further strengthened in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. We now know that the doubling of young people in the last few years is due to the fact that more people with serious malformations and diagnoses now actually live up to 18 years and then have to have a life-long income hedge as unfinished. In order for the welfare state to be a lot for those who just need it the most, it has to be a little less for us who are resource-intensive. Therefore, we must continue to make the necessary adjustments and changes, so that we extend human choices, help those who can become self-held, actually help it, make demands, but also make demands and at the same time recognize that well-being is so much more than the sum of the government budget entries. We all live in the hope that everything will be fine. But much will be different for many. That is why we need to change in order to preserve the sustainability of the welfare state so that it can support us and promise us when the crisis occurs. Now we have to make sure to create more and include more to take Norway out of the crisis while at the same time providing a sustainable welfare country that supports those who need it. The right will therefore be in favour of reversals of the necessary changes that ensure the latest, and of the proposals that we are part of. Let me thank you for your cooperation in the committee and, not least, thank you to the secretariat for organizing, so that we can do our job in a better and tidyer way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1358	Heidi Nordby Lunde spent several minutes in his speech describing how offended the Right has felt when they have met arguments from the other party and political debate about the consequences of their policies. But not one second, Nordby Lunde spent on concerns that many thousands of people now have for their own economy. It is for the Right's own account that they prioritise this, but I want to challenge Heidi Nordby Lunde on what she wrote on Facebook when the Workers' Party's proposal to make sure that holiday money was re-introduced on the daily allowance. She called it "crazy" and "whole co-coo". We've met a lot of trusted people who represent the perms, who are desperate, who have tears in their eyes, and who are horrifying for the summer and for their own private economy. In particular, tourism and tourism industries in Norway need to be seriously damaged by the fact that Norwegians can afford to go on vacation. Does Heidi Nordby Lunde admit that it was insensitive language, and would she regret the use of words?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1367	I notice that Grande continues to devalue the values and policies on which we, on the right, want to raise people up and into the labour market. I remember when I received a payment from Nav in 2014, on January 27th, and wondered why in the world I got it. It turned out to be this holiday money supplement that permized get, because I had been on my own for six months. So yes, I've known about the uncertainty that it's going to be permitted, but I think it's a completely wrong priority to spend the money that should lift people into working life for a holiday allowance supplement. When it's the largest item in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, spending money on holiday money for people who are now out of work, instead of lifting them into working life, I believe that the Labour Party's policy is completely co-co-ordinate, and I am in favour of that use of words. Then I notice that the Workers' Party is still going to make it more expensive to create the jobs these people are going to be included in and back to, and I do not support that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1376	I notice that Heidi Nordby Lunde will not complain about his use of words. I also notice that the way the Right makes its policy is to say that their own personal experience suggests that no one else needs that kind of support scheme. That, I think, is a selective policy, only for the better-advanced, which blends into a good Right-Tradition that they have implemented as a blue thread in their policies all year round. But everyday life is not so simple and so rosy for ordinary workers, those who are now on leave, who were permised in the first wave of ours, who again felt to be permated when the second wave came, and who are now afraid of their economy and are already striving to get the ends to meet – and not least for the travel industry, which sorely requires that the Norwegians can afford to go on vacation. What is Heidi Nordby Lunde's message to these people, when they are now uncertain as to which summer they and their family meet when the Right refuses to reintroduce holiday money on a daily allowance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1385	We use our own personal experience for, among others. to develop new policies, because we saw that the policies pursued by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's Party did not work. Then we had higher taxes, but nevertheless more children became poor, and there were longer hospital cows and fewer who received treatment in the field of drugs and psychiatry. We have lowered taxes, provided shorter health cows and now work constantly to change and target the welfare state that we have, and that everyone ends up about, just to lift people out of the outside world and into the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1392	The right was, as is well known, against giving old-age pensioners better income development than they have in recent years. When the majority, with the Right, adopted the pension reform, it was assumed that the regulatory model would provide pensioners with income trends that would lead to positive purchasing power developments. It hasn't happened. Why does the Right believe that pensioners should lose purchasing power every year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1400	The right is, like the Progress Party, too good, sustainable pensions for both today's and future pensioners. The purchasing power development of pensioners has been positively influenced by a number of measures that we have implemented together with the Progress Party in government, but also recently in this budgetary agreement. Among other things, we have increased the basic pension for married and cohabiting persons, increased the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners by 4000 kroner in three rounds, and if I do not remember correctly, it was now in the budget agreement by 5000 kroner, for those who have at least already increased the minimum pension for married and cohabiting old-age pensioners, and there are tax havens that have benefited pensioners. For me, it's going to be the whole thing that counts. Although pensioners have now had negative income trends for some years due to poor wage development and underregulation, this actually reversed last year, and they would come out better both last year and last year with today's regulation. We are happy and want a pension system that provides security and predictability and is over time, together with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1407	In the time we're in now, there's one word that for us in the Center Party is most important, and that's security. It's health security, it's social security, it's social security if you've lost your job. That's what's our big task, and that's what's our big responsibility. State Council Sanner said in the financial debate on December 3rd this year that one had to prevent unemployment from breaking down at an too high level. Heidi Nordby Lunde said the same thing today – snapping into place at an too high level. Does the right no longer agree with what has been the slogan in Norway about full employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1416	Well, the right is just in agreement that the goal must be full employment, and creating more and including more is also the whole main objective of our alternative state budget. But we also say that if the welfare state is to be a lot for those who need it the most, it must be a little less for us others, and therefore we are in order to change and target welfare benefits so that they hit those who need it the most. But we're also using the economic space we have to facilitate more jobs, so that we get jobs for those who are to be included in and back to work. I'm surprised that the Center Party supports an alliance that's going to make it more expensive to create the jobs people are going to be included back in, when we get to the other side of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1423	In the last year, we've had serious fires at Equinor's facilities on the Tent God and on Melkøya. After the fires, the Petroleum Control has launched an investigation of these accidents, and the supervision has been very critical of Equinor's safety work. It's serious. This concerns the safety of those who work on a Norwegian base. We need stronger kerosene surveillance. It was therefore gratifying that the government in its draft government budget increased the allocation to the Petroleum Control by over 14 million. kr. But this increase was more than halved in the budget negotiations. Safety for those working in the oil industry is obviously not important for the Progress Party. My question is: what will this great cut of the Petroleum Control will mean for the efforts we need from this supervision in the future, to ensure the safety of Norwegian Sockets, and what will be prioritised down?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1430	Thank you for the question. I am very pleased that the representative is lifting the safety and security of our employees on the base. It was also one of the reasons why this government wanted to strengthen both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate with more than what was ultimately the result. But it is nevertheless a strengthening, so that we can prioritise the efforts on, among other things. Norwegian socket and have been corrected for the errors that have not been reported, so far. So I think this doesn't mean you need to prioritize something down. We see that both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate over time are actually able to carry out more targeted detection of work-life crime with fewer resources. It is also the point that we have turned into large-scale digitisation, just to streamline the use of public resources and get the job done, using fewer resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1435	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1440	Thank you both to the Committee and the Committee Secretary for a good job. Fortunately, the Working Environment Act does not apply to us, because members of the Committee have worked evenings and nights and overtime to sew together next year's government budget. 2020 has been a challenging year, both for residents, municipalities and businesses, and for employees and employers. For this reason, it has been important for the Progress Party in budgetary negotiations in the United Kingdom to pursue a policy of life, health, employment and business. I think that a crisis situation can also bring out the best in people. Don't get me wrong: the pandemic is and has been serious. It has required life, people have lost their jobs, a lot of business is at the limit of what you can tolerate. And to you, I want to say that we see you, and together we're going to get through the crisis. But in that I also see that in the whole country – from Hammerfest in the north to Lindesnes in the south – people stand up in the corona dugna. It can also bring about cohesion in the political processes. We saw it in the spring, when the Storting in record speed presented agreed package of measures without any squeezing and without hitting each other in the head with the usual party political slogans. You set up and did what needed to be done. They didn't use superlatives as tax havens for the richest, trade union snuggles, don't care about the weakest, etc. I don't expect us to be able to repeat it in this debate, where I suspect that more people will be interested in talking down other people's policies rather than showing up their own. We'll see. The state budget for 2021 is a government budget that balances well the consideration of a forward-looking budget with the acute crisis we are facing. At the same time, there are several things that are important for the Progress Party. The Progress Party has always been concerned with care for the elderly and the country's pensioners. We have a generation who have been working and working for the community a whole professional life. Some of them may have experienced World War II. Some have been in for a long time and have paid into the community. That's why I'm glad that the Progress Party has had an impact for 2 billion. extra kr to the pensioners. For too many years, pensioners have reduced their purchasing power, but thanks to the Budget Agreement of the Advance Party with the government, we are now ensuring pensioners much better income growth. In addition, single minimum pensioners will increase their pension by NOK 5000, which is a historically high amount. This is in addition to the specific increases achieved by the Progress Party. This is about 17 000 kroner a year just since 2016. This is in addition to taxes that the country's pensioners have received, which is almost NOK 5000 a year. In addition, the party of progress has already reduced the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners by NOK 8 000. There is no other party that has done as much for the country's pensioners as the Advance Party. We show not only in celebrations, but also in practice that we appreciate those who built the country. To have a welfare society, we need a sustainable business, and people need a job to go to. This is why the Progress Party has reduced taxes and taxes on businesses and businesses. We do not want a special Norse tax on Norwegian companies, the so-called property tax. I know a lot of corner stone companies in District Norway that are now fighting to keep their heads above water. They contribute thousands of private jobs in the districts, never ask for anything back from the state, but may now have to raise loans, reduce activity, or let employees go to pay property taxes because someone stamps them as the most, the richest. In order to have a well-functioning working life, we also need mobility. People have to be able to move and travel. Therefore, it is important to reduce distances through good infrastructure. It opens up the labour market in a completely different way when you can connect the housing and labour markets. It is both good district policy, industrial policy and social policy at once. But it is also important that we have a good education system that educates people into jobs that are demanded in the labour market. For this reason, the Progress Party has called for more labour-oriented training and the strengthening of a particular profession. Taxlets can also be well-being. A normal family that has received an annual tax return of NOK 12 000, then has an extra 12 000 that can be spent on welfare or other things. It's not a tax haven for the richest, but it's money in the pockets of ordinary people. I have grown up in the South, and a lovely psalm in the South begins with «Make the door high, make the gate wide». I think it can be a good metaphor for the working life as well. We want to include, we want the threshold to participate to be low. Some of them use expressions like 'all of them'. It is at least right and important that everyone is given the opportunity to participate in the labour market at their level. That's why we have, among other things, strengthened the organisation HELT MED, we increase the number of VTA sites, we strengthen labour market measures, we increase efforts to get more jobs. Among other things, I have visited Hopeful in Kristiansand, which provides work training for young people. They do an amazing job to get young people who otherwise would not have had opportunities, to come back to work. They have been visited by many politicians in the last year, both Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre, State Councillor Røe Isaksen and many other key politicians. I'm glad the Progress Party managed to secure them with 1 million. kr on the State budget, so that they can continue the important work. Finally, as a 30-year-old father, I see more and more things than before in a generation perspective. I want my children and the generation they belong to to to have welfare schemes like my generation or that my parents have and have had. That doesn't mean that everything should be the same as it is now, or as it has been, but that means that the state budget can't be everything forever. In order not to break up societies, it also has to be changing. This means that arrangements need to be able to be viewed and changed when it makes sense. There will always be resistance to changing something when it's done, but usually when you look back at it, you see that it was right when it was done, even though it was tough. Therefore, it is important that welfare systems are sustainable, and I hope that it must be possible to interpret people at best and not always in the worst sense when making changes that are to stand in a generation perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1475	We're in a crisis. Many have experienced the loss of safety through work this year. Nearly 200,000 are either fully or partially available. So what was the greatest grip of the Progress Party on the work force in their alternative state budget? Well, it was cut in redundancy money and cut in transition. It's the Progress Party that's trying to tell us that they're the party for most people. But then I would like to answer: Why did not the Progress Party use its power in the negotiations with the government to ensure that ordinary workers who are now falling out of the day-to-day arrangements could get the necessary security?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1482	It is not true that the party of progress is not the party of people most. If there's someone who's really talking about things that ordinary people and people are most concerned about, it's just the Progress Party. I also do not buy the premise that the Progress Party will always reduce benefits. We see that, among other things, The working party has reduced several performances during its term of government. I think that the most important thing is that people have a job to go to, that we have a business that actually works tomorrow, that we build up housing and labour markets, that we have a good infrastructure, and that business life is not taxed to the full in the very serious coronary situation that we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1489	Is it the answer to those who are now being pushed out of the payroll, and to those who do not come in because you have raised the limit when you can get a daily allowance? Is it to have more jobs? We're all because we're going to have more jobs, but it doesn't help those who are being pushed out of the schemes right now. I am absolutely sure that they also want more jobs, but there are no more jobs for everyone right here and now. Now it burns too many, and there are 200,000 totally or partially available. The government itself responds to the number of people who are being pushed out of the payroll because it is not being extended. There are 1,500 now before Christmas during December, 1500 in January, 2000 in February and almost 4000 in March. What is the answer to them from the Progress Party? I have not received a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1497	The representative says that everyone is for jobs, but nevertheless it is the Progress Party that prioritises it, in its budgetary settlement with the government. There you can see, among other things: that we can create more jobs, and it has been welcomed by both NHO, Works and several other organisations that say that a net payroll package, a package for seafarers, etc. can be good. We're still going to have, and we have, good welfare arrangements that make those who fall outside get a decent and good offer. I assume that they get in the future, and I think they get that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1504	Now the Progress Party, in cooperation with the government parties, has helped to expand, increase and extend some of the many arrangements that have been temporary, and some of the temporary arrangements are being rolled back as we get into a more normal situation for many, and we see that several come back to work. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. Because I saw in the budget that the government is proposing to reduce subsidies for humanitarian actions targeting EEA citizens by about 10 million. kr. To my surprise, in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, I see this being reversed, despite the fact that the number of beggars from the EEA area has been declining or stable in recent years. What I know about the Progress Party is that there is an ever-increasing, critical vote against the EEA, and especially against beggars coming from the EEA territory. So I wonder, what is the result of this rare exposure to beggars from the EEA territory?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1511	The system is under the Ministry of Justice and Defence, I think, but whether it is or not: typing is a serious problem. In terms of much of the means of begging – where there is crime, and there is crime behind it, etc. – I remember seeing a report from OsloMet saying that those funds also do not help to maintain begging. I also have to remind you that even if it is an amount, it is an amount that will be applied for. It means that everything doesn't necessarily have to be used up, but it's need-tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1516	The representative Saudland from the South refers to ‘Make the door high, make the gate wide’. It is a psalm that also stands strongly on the Eiker. It applies to us in private, and to some of us, it also applies to the text here in Stortinget. The most important thing is that you should facilitate everyone's ability to earn their own money from working. Full employment becomes crucial, full employment with Norwegian wage and working conditions. My question is: Is it possible from the point of view of the Progress Party to ensure full employment in Norway with Norwegian pay and working conditions when you have uncontrolled labour immigration from EU countries where pay and working conditions are miserable and unemployment is high?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1523	That's an interesting question. Now there has been a shifting majority up through the Storting, and no one has notified us of EEA cooperation, even the Centre Party. If we leave it, I think it is possible to maintain Norwegian pay and working conditions, even if you are a member of an EEA cooperation. The Party wishes, as it is known, to renegotiate that EEA Agreement, for example: to prevent social security exports and to ensure national self-determination. We have mentioned earlier, for example: having a national minimum wage, which I also believe will contribute to a decent working life. We now see that neither is labour immigration so strong that it pushes Norwegian workers out of the labour market in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1528	Those who have been on leave during 2020 lose holiday money as a result of the government and the Progress Party abolishing the holiday supplement for day-to-day money. Not only does this ensure that their individual and family live less in the summer of 2021, but it also means less purchasing power and less ability to spend money on business, which is sorely in need of tourism and commerce in the years to come. Why won't the Progress Party participate in an economic boost like this, which can secure purchasing power for individuals and families, and be for the benefit of business next summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1533	The most important thing will be that we get out of the corona crisis as soon as possible, and that you have a job and a business to go back to, that it's not taxed so hard that companies go over, etc. In the case of holiday money on day money, it's part of a budget deal that we have with the other parties. It's an acquired right that you've paid in the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1538	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1543	First of all, I would like to mention the proposal of the Central Party in the vote and the loose proposal No. 32, that the government comes back to the Storting with discussion of different actions within the Nav and the Interaction Special Health Service to reduce the increase in the number of young people. In particular, the unique interaction model for outside young people, the so-called Saltdal model, needs to be reviewed. The centre party will also support the proposals No. 25 and 26, from the Working Party and SV, in the setting. The Central Party's draft budget for 2021 is a counter-cyclical budget. It is necessary and correct in today's situation. The centre party is responsible for full employment and the fight against unemployment. Full employment, increased minimum pensions and more valuable benefits for those with the least, are the pillars of the Central Party's alternative budget in the Labour and Social Committee – a budget that is about one third of the total state budget and has expenditures of more than 500 billion. kr. Security of labour income is the main initiative of the Centre Party. We therefore extend the measures against the pandemic, for workers, businesses and maritime operators until 1 July 2021. We prepare to extend the maximum time period for the receipt of daily allowances beyond 52 weeks and prioritise 10,000 new jobs with pay subsidies to employers for people who have weak links with the labour market. For the Centre Party, a well-organised working life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. It's a sentence I can never get stressed strongly enough. Full employment, controlled labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, small pay differentials and a comprehensive welfare system are the main objectives of the Centre's employment policy. There are now about 300,000 people with full or partial working capacity who are outside of registered income-bearing work and are therefore living from different public benefits through Nav. This represents about 10 pst. of the pre-employed population aged 18 to 67. The centre party is working to create greater security and hope for these people. Therefore, in the financial debate on December 3rd this year, the leader of the Center Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, said that it is too easy to take up this record-breaking job. This draft budget is one – and I stress one – of the Central Party's countermeasures against insecurity and unemployment. While the government of Finance Minister Sanner said in the finance debate that the government would prevent the unemployment from becoming fixed ‘at an too high level’, the line of the Centre Party is full employment. The parties with no higher objectives than a certain unemployment rate end up with a high level of unemployment in Norwegian tradition, where those with the weakest links to the labour market will find themselves in unemployment and economic uncertainty. A crisis plan needs to be developed. In the short term, a strong commitment is needed to ensure both the purchasing power of the many who are now outside the high-income labour force, and compensation for part of the loss of income of the enterprises and industries affected by the lack of demand in their activities or by the covid-19 measures of the authorities. The Centre Party proposes that 10,000 more persons be included in the payroll scheme for enterprises employing only partially disabled people. This will, in practice, greatly improve the system of redundancy payments for people who have completed their work. There will be increased demand in the labour market for these people, and there is a key in tackling the situation for these people. In the longer term, new business needs to be facilitated through productive measures, as one would say in the 1930s, so that businesses can see opportunities in new market areas for the future. A typical example can be the paper factory Norske Skog Saugbruks AS in Halden, where they have now shut down one of three paper machines. It is planned to use part of the wood pulp which thus becomes available to produce composite material from wood pulp instead of current production, which is mainly based on fossil oil raw material. Such private projects must receive public support and the Central Party has long agitated in its budgets for a State-owned green investment company of 10 billion. kr in administrative capital. In order to achieve this, the bulk of the population must break with the principle of business neutrality and bet on future environmentally friendly enterprises where the production and processing of renewable natural resources must be among the most important. Norway has excellent opportunities for industrial processing with a basis in fish, forests, hydropower and agricultural food, and it needs to be made profitable. Such conversion of production requires new knowledge and different vocational training of employees in current enterprises. Intra-corporate training, with so-called BIO money, which has moved from Nav to County Municipalities from 1 January 2020, needs to be strongly strengthened. The party proposed to increase the allocation by 250 million. kr from the Ministry of Local Government budget for 2021. The 2 mill limit. kr per holding for a period of two years, so-called de minimis aid determined by the EEA Agreement, must be removed, in the opinion of the Centre Party. For the Centre Party, it is essential to replace current uncontrolled labour immigration from the EEA area outside the Nordic region with controlled labour immigration, where requirements for employment in the enterprise and housing on site become important. Thus, we will be able to reintroduce elected responsibilities for the labour market and ensure full employment in the best Norwegian tradition. In particular, this is essential for our young people and our people with partial working skills who are now increasingly disadvantaged in the fight for jobs. The EU is now establishing what is known in the government’s language as the labour market agency, while the EU’s English name is the European Labour Authority, the ELA labour market authority. The aim is to gradually establish a common labour market legislation in all EU/EEA countries. This will lead to a deterioration in pay and working conditions in Norway. This will particularly affect refugees from third countries, unskilled and low-paid. Researchers at the Frischsenteret found that labour immigration from low-income countries has had a negative impact on so-called relative labour market outcomes for individuals grew up in lower social groups in Norway and a positive impact for people from higher social groups. For the Center Party, these are completely logical research results, which means to reinforce the economic differences between people. In Norway, we continue to have strong professional organisation, more committed tripartite cooperation, a much higher level of real wages and a relatively stronger level of work environment legislation than in EU countries. That is why the Central Party is opposed to membership of the European Labour Authority. Crime at work impedes fair competition and creates social dumping. Many of today's rules on what is right and wrong in the workplace are too unclear. This creates grey zones that are exploited. Combating what people regard as work crime therefore requires clearer and more unambiguous legal rules as well as stronger responses. The centre party strengthens the Labour Inspectorate by 50 million. kr and more persons in active targeted business supervision. The Centre Party does not agree with the reorganisation of the Labour Inspectorate in functional areas rather than geographical areas. The centre party is responsible for local management and believes that the Labour Inspectorate must give priority to the control of generalised pay and working conditions and the use of recruitment agencies. The Central Party is strengthening Petroleum Control. The centre party will change the implementation of the social security settlement by making the annual pension scheme by average wage and price growth. Remove the minus 0,75 under-regulation of the day. The centre party will give the organisations back the right to negotiate with the State, and the Stortinget will have to establish a pot for specific measures, such as increased minimum pensions, which are negotiated. The social security settlement is dealt with in the spring session on the basis of a government proposition and is financed by the Miscellaneous Item of the State Budget. The Pensioners Association shall be granted access to the Technical Calculation Committee and the Government Contact Committee. The local team of the Pensioners Association will become even more important in the voluntary sector’s work in an interaction with the welfare services provided by municipalities. It is very important to get the interaction between the public and the ideal for the situation of the elderly. With the arrangement of the Centre Party, the Pensioners Association is given increased responsibility and influence in society. The negotiations on a broad settlement on the income development of pensioners, the proposal of the Socialist Left and the Progressive Party are far from complete and the Labour and Social Committee will be consulted on 6 January next year. Therefore, the Centre Party has not introduced any amended pension regulation into our alternative budget. In our opinion, this must come as a matter of its own or in the revised national budget as a consequence of the negotiations on the pension settlement. In the budget of the Central Party, we increase the minimum pension by NOK 10 000 per year from 1 October 2020, and it is an action that prioritises the weakest among pensioners. The centre party is working purposefully for seamless transition from high school to permanent organised work, VTA space, for young people who need it. So we're going to increase by 500 places. The centre batch enters to reintroduce the Unfired Supplement, raising the minimum performance of the AAP for recipients under 25 years of age. We're going in to extend the maximum time period for receiving the AAP in the light of the exceptional situation, and we're against getting a standstill period of one year under today's conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1593	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1601	The left side, indicated by Red, will ban the manning industry. This, of course, has led to great concern for those who work in the industry. Tor Andreas Bremnes in Manpower has 12 years behind in the trade movement, a wide range of work experience and now three years in the manpower industry. He writes the following on Facebook: I have stood at the barricades for the right to full time, I have led the strike for equal pay and working conditions, I have been committed to a better world for countless years. Now my party and the left side have gone in to limit my chances of being an active driver for inclusion and integration. My job has become an abomination that we have to crack. I rejoice when my employees succeed, and I hope you can cheer for me when I succeed, because I do a job for you all – we are the inclusion virtue. Help me get the important work we're doing before it's too late. The question is, what will the representative Lundtegen say to Tor Andreas and all the others who work in the personnel industry? Is it too late, and will the Center Party really not have them involved in getting more people to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1611	The person is connected to Manpower. As far as I know, it's an old organization that was central to the work of the Blaalid Committee. Then it was not called crew companies, it was called temporary companies. The centre party is for temporary employment companies, we are for temporary employment agencies, according to the Working Environment Act § 14-12 first paragraph. The permanent employees of temporary employment agencies can be hired to cover temporary employment, i.e. temporary employment, under Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (b). So the temporary employment agencies have a role. They can also operate with the provision of labour, but crew companies are something we don't want, because it destroys Norwegian working life, where the tradition is: permanent and temporary employment, and everyone in the flock has the same logo on their back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1618	I can only thank the representative for the answer and perhaps ask to take some coffee cups with various temporary employment agencies and staff companies. There's a lot of uncertainty about what you actually mean. We also have to get inside Nav, because that might be the solution for a lot of people who can't work in these agencies anymore. Nav changed its regional structure in 2019 and went from 19 counties to 12 regional offices. In the annual report for 2019 we see that it has led to more employees at the local Nav offices. The right has been committed to strengthening the professional environments of Nav and to ensuring competent follow-up and good practice. The centre party is more concerned that the number of Nav offices should return to the total number of municipalities. They will now dissolve the competence units and have at least one Nav office in each municipality, in a country where we have 20 municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. So out of curiosity, how, for example, should the competence profile be on Utsira, which has less than 200 inhabitants, to care for young disabled, unemployed, outlawed and parents applying for care?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1627	First, the representative Hagerup can help me and put me in touch with all these from the temporary employment agencies, so I would like to take coffee or a glass of whole milk with them. It's gonna be fine. In the case of Nav, the Central Party line is that Nav is a cooperation between the municipalities and the state. There are different solutions in different areas. We have full respect for that, but the Center Party wants to strengthen the first line. The whole point of Nav was one door in. Today, that door is barely open enough. Nav has to perform a basic audit in order to work. Soon everyone will see that Nav is not working. One of the measures is that those in the first line must be given decisive authority to clarify interim benefits, i.e. yes or no. As a result, responsibility is reduced to the local level, and an authorised member of staff is assigned to act according to the will of the management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1636	The representative Lundtigen says that his party will increase the minimum pension by NOK 10 000 per year. Then a number of government employees with part-time jobs will not receive an allowance for their occupational pension. How will Lundtigen and his party solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1641	It is clear that when the minimum pension increases, the supplementary pension to a part that currently has a low supplementary pension will be ‘absorbed’ by the increased minimum pension. I don't see that there's anything we can do with anything. That means that we get a welfare improvement for the many. Those with a small supplementary pension don't get any worse conditions, but they don't get a better pension than those who haven't had the same income in their working life. But that's the whole system built up. We got the population back in 1967. It was driven by Prime Minister Per Borten and Social Minister Egil Aarvik, and it was going to reach everyone. It was also when many people thought it was wrong, because it brought up the many people who did not have income similar to that of others who had a modest income, and thus received an additional pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1646	Why does the representative Lundteg think it is right that those who are highly paid and who can work for a very long time should be paid for the supplementary pension, while a part-time employee who has been in a demanding position should not be paid for his supplementary pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1651	I think the representative here is talking about the coordination agreement, which applies to public employees. The point of the coordination area is coordination between public and public pensions. It stands for me to be something else. The working party tries to create the impression that the coordination case is an advantage for the high-wages. Figures from the Municipal Pension Fund show that there is a broad average of people and many with low income are affected by the coordination trap, which is a coordination of public and public pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1656	There is often a long way between life and learning, both in everyday life and in politics. I see that the Center Party says they want holiday money for the day, but there is a missing 3.4 billion. kr. The center party says they want to regulate the pension with approximately salary growth, but there is a need of 2.5 billion. kr. The center party says they're going to cut off the legacy benefits, but there's no 2 billion missing. kr. Why does the Central Party say they're for things they don't give money to in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1661	I believe that the representative of the Progress Party must read our budget better. We have a strong commitment to holiday money on a daily basis. That's the biggest one. It's a total of 3.4 billion. kr, and that is a proper bet because it improves the economic situation of those who have become unemployed. As far as pensioners are concerned, I have described what is our thinking. Negotiations are not completed yet. Negotiations must result either as a matter of their own, or as a case in the revised national budget in respect of those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1672	It has been a special year this year, with crisis conditions in the vast majority of industries and parts of society. This is again reflected in the budget, including the alternative budget of the SV, among others. that we will continue the economic crisis measures for people with little experience, much longer than the government will. This is also the last budget to be adopted by the Committee during this period, and the tradition is not much here to benefit ordinary workers – rather the opposite, I would say. And it probably fits to sum up this budget after eight years with the same multiple at the rudder. The government has implemented a lot of right-wing policies at this time. They will probably boast in this debate of their a-krimcentra, which was created in the previous period, as usual. Yeah, that's good, but for us it's not enough. These a-krimcents take some big bad guys, which are really great. It's good work, I mean, it's very sincere, but we don't take all the little bad guys in the work world, and there's a lot of them. They are largely left to the Labour Inspectorate alone, which is now on its eighth budget with an ABE budget, as well as having been allocated more tasks. This may not have made working life more criminal, but I dare say that being a petty criminal in the workplace outside a large mob network has been much easier today than it was before. This is very worrying, and I can promise that with a new red-green government to the cottage, there will be other balls. Regular workers have received more taxes and taxes, while at the same time they have felt that the trade union quota is becoming more expensive, that the government has not raised the deduction, as they have done for the employers' membership quota. Right often makes a point of referring to the AAP scheme as it used to be, as a ‘rolling band out of work’. It may be that the scheme that was could have benefited from some adjustments, but it is a long way from that government’s making with the arrangement in its period at the rudder, to a well-functioning arrangement. The government, in its time at the wheel, has transformed the AAP scheme into a roller band against serious, increasing differences and extreme poverty for a wide range of people. This is serious. At the same time, Nav has been exposed to about 500 million. kr in the ABE-cut, the government has used the AAP scheme to send people straight out of the population, which is supposed to be a common insurance for all of us. The result is unlikely to be many more in poverty, social welfare and poorer well-being, and that many of these people who have been exposed to this have been even more ill and perhaps completely lost the possibility of using any residual working capacity in the workplace. SV handles a lot of its alternative budget. We put a lot of money into the AAP scheme to start a cleanup there. I stress that it will take a lot more to fix everything here and get a well-functioning system, but we have a good start in our alternative budget. We bring in the holiday supplement again for the daily allowance. We've added money to increase the minimum pension, and we're cutting $35 million. Dr in the advisory section of Nav, when we have recorded that much of the work they do in the day-to-day life is the waste of time and unnecessary over-testing of others' work. All in all, a family of two grown-ups and two children will spend $11,000 on plus in their alternative budget, looking up to their government. With this, I make all the SV's proposals, as well as a loose proposal on daily allowances for professionals coming from third countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1693	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1700	In the alternative budget of the SV, the word ‘sustainable’ is referred to once and it is in a budget point on sustainable farming. This may indicate that creating a more sustainable welfare society is not the most important thing for SV. I now believe, for the sake of order, that the contribution of the farming industry to the sustainability of the welfare state would not be improved by SV's proposals. But to get to the point: this committee manages one third of the government budget, and the SV's alternative budget seems to follow the recipe "a little more to everything" and "a little more to something" and then together accounts for well over 7 billion. DKK in additional expenditure in this area. So my question is simply: are there any areas in this field where SV believes that something can be more efficient, or even that it should be a goal to spend a little less money on some schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1709	Thank you very much for your reply. I have to apologize for the language in our own alternative budget, but if the representative has misunderstood, SV is unlikely to be busy in many different areas, but we may not mention the word specifically. For the representative to comment on the contribution from the farming industry, I believe that with the alternative budget of SV, they would contribute much more in terms of increased taxes and taxes. This is now a system that is centralized at an unusually fast pace, and ends up on an ever fewer hands. When it comes to the question itself, whether it is something that can be streamlined and cut in the eyes of SV, the answer is yes. Among other things, I from the Chair that we can cut some settings in the section for consulting superiors in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1720	It is good to confirm that when SV interprets the word ‘sustainability’, it is only about charging more taxes, either from individuals or businesses. Some would argue that there may also be some of the things that help to reduce sustainability in the long term. The representative Lerbreck also mentioned specific changes to the AAP scheme for young people in his article, and she also mentioned that it has been called a treadmill out of work. From my point of view, this is one of the more incomprehensible priorities in the SV budget. But I could be interested to hear a little more about what kind of grip SV is going to do when they propose to reintroduce the old system, which, of course, did not work, to ensure that you avoid the negative effects you had then. Or is it significant just to change the arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1727	It is true that SV wants to reverse a good part of the changes made by the government in the redundancy payments, but it is not right that we believe that the scheme was perfect before. It's not like that. When it comes to the level of redundancy money for those under 25 years, I believe that the representative and I might live in two slightly different ways, because when I was 20 years old, I was finished a very good job with potentially almost as high income as I have today as a deposit representative. There are very many young people between 20 and 25 years of age who experience it, where the level of redundancy money as it is today is perceived as very unfair, and where the reasoning of the government is not correct, quite simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1734	The representative from SV said something that I thought was interesting, in the post. I can't reproduce it correctly, but it was that you put out some money to the AAP, but you don't put out everything you need. So you have set a symbolic sum, but not what is needed to correct what the representative is criticizing. How much more does SV think is needed to correct what SV believes should be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1739	That's right, as the representative says. Their right hand party and support party have spent eight years making big and many changes in popular welfare, including redundancy money. The fact that SV has not been able to reverse everything we want to reverse, in addition to making the arrangement what we would rather have seen she was, in one budget, is no more than understandable, I think. We don't have unlimited money, neither, so we're forced to prioritize. But it's not true that we've just added a symbolic sum. There's real money in a real alternative state budget we've provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1744	The representative, Mr Lerbreuk, stressed the criminality of work in his report. It's a very important topic, but what policy does SV have to take the bad guys in the world of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1749	Thank you for the question. To that I would say that I can begin by commending the Christian People's Party for the efforts they made earlier, as they got through their demand for the labour-criminality centre in the Labour Inspectorate in cooperation with the other budgets. It was a very good grip. We would like to have had a lot more of that, as well as to improve the work supervision and give far more inspectorial settings than they have today, simply because there has to be a relatively high chance of having non-announced visits by the Labour Inspectorate. It may not be that only the most serious tips to the Labour Inspectorate on Labour Crime are being visited. There must be a chance that everyone can be visited, including the serious actors in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1760	The workline is the basic plan of Norwegian labour policy. She's supposed to have a job to do for everyone who likes it. It applies to everyone, but also to people with special needs. Regeninga Solberg has ensured that there are more than 11,000 permanent job creations. It's historically high, and with the Christian People's Party in government, we've been pushing for more and more into this system. The government has added 300 new places to the budget for 2021, and spends 39 million. kr on it. The Christian People's Party fights for more people to get access to a meaningful everyday life. We know that the provision of work, regardless of commitment, is very important for the participation, self-reliance and good values provided by the social community. The Christian People's Party will therefore step up the offer and adapt personal training plans. A lot of companies are good at this, but there's still a little bit left in many jobs. Strengthening supply will allow more people across the country to contribute to society. We know how important such an offer is to those who need it, and to the working community. These actions take place both in the screens and in ordinary activities, and are offered in addition to municipal places. It is an important breakthrough for the Christian People's Party to strengthen this field. The Christian People's Party has the struggle to allow everyone to participate in the world of work, no matter what background you have, how functionally healthy you are, or whether you have other difficulties in life that may make it necessary to get, or stand in, work. In the Granavolden platform, the Christian People's Party has been able to increase the number of permanent job placements. This has been followed up by the Christian People's Party in the budget for next year. The Christian People's Party has fought for an impact on an equilateral reform that will be presented to the Stortinget in the spring of 2021. She's about creating a society that has room for everyone, where everyone is treated equally. Hence, it is crucial that we have good social mechanisms that facilitate everyone. The Christian People's Party will also continue to work to increase the participation of people with developmental disabilities in work, so that each person can develop his or her resources according to his or her ability and get a meaningful everyday life. So on top of something else: Norwegian family policy should help to make it possible for both men and women to combine careers and family life. This is a prerequisite for an equal and good working life. Christian People's Party supports reaching the goal, including: with good welfare arrangements for families with children. It helps ensure high levels of professional participation for women. The number of women working part-time today is 35 pst, and it's coming down. In connection with this number, we have to think that some women want to work less. There is to be spaces to choose what is appropriate for the individual family. The challenge of involuntary part-time work is greatest in health and care professionals. It may to some extent be related to the organisation of the rotational system, but also to the fact that there are most women in these professions. The government focuses on involuntary part-time work, including: strengthened the rules governing the right of pre-emption of part-time employees. Women represent 63 pst. of the bachelor degrees and 58 pst. by the Mastergrads of Norway. It is therefore important that all these competences benefit society. In fact, out of 70 top leaders who were added in the last two years, 18 were women, although women have a higher level of education. When it comes to managing directors, it was only 14 pst. women versus 86 pst. men. All this suggests that men get 28 pst. More in popular fear than women. We also know that 86 pst. of the minimum pension list are women. This imbalance must be captured and done with. The gender equality struggle must be even more targeted at the labour market. Two aspects: the future of our welfare systems depends on both women and men working. To achieve this, we need a generous family policy that is more concerned with: maintain a high level of professional activity promote equality fighting child poverty give family options This is a policy that the Christian People's Party will push forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1806	The Christian People's Party appears in many ways as another party after they went to government. There could have been many examples, but one of the biggest revolutions is the Christian People's Party's view of the serious cuts in redundancy pay for sick people. The Christian People's Party voted against cuts in redundancy payments before the elected government partners, but now they end the ranks behind the cuts. Representatives of the Christian People's Party have said that they are willing to review this. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is The cuts have now lasted for two years, and the result is more on social security and more on social assistance and private care, among others. Thanks to the Christian People's Party. When can these people expect that the Christian People's Party is ready to take seriously the despair that many sick without income are in the middle of now, and evaluate these cuts again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1813	The assessment must be carried out with a job clearance, simply because four years went by and one could expand it by two more years. So one could go six years on redundancy money. It's a very long time to clarify. Then there was a permanent arrangement for those in the arrangement. When it comes to clarification, it is actually the hub and the decision-maker who has to organize, so that the individual patient, or client, is cleared up before that time, and either comes to work, work organized, or unworked.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1820	Then I record that the Christian People's Party argues quite the opposite now compared to what they did earlier. Another area of the Christian People's Party has been occupied by, and the representative Selsvold Nyborg mentioned it himself in his post, are people with special needs. The Christian People's Party has previously been in charge of people with developmental disabilities. The Workers' Party is promoting two proposals for the benefit of those with disabilities in its budget today. One is to care for parents of home-dwelling disabled people over the age of 18 who need supervision but who now have to be at home for infectious diseases. The second is to start a gradual phase-in of 100 pst. job guarantee for people with developmental disabilities. I suppose the Christian People's Party will vote against it, as they have not commented on the proposals in the post. But I wonder if this is proposals Christian People's Party would normally support here today if they had not been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1827	There are bonds by sitting in government. The Labour Party has also experienced this in its time in the Red-Green Government. So there's nothing new. We see that homeless children over 18 years of age with a need for help can, of course, be demanding for parents in this pandemic. This group shall be provided by its school, which shall monitor and assess the needs of each student. If it is that someone does not have the right to do so, the question must be addressed to school owners, so that a person can make this offer, so that there will be a frame around the person over 18 who is at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1834	As the representative may be aware, the Progress Party is very concerned with the pensioners, and the Christian People's Party has a history in which they have addressed the weak in society. Nevertheless, it was only after the budgetary negotiations with the Progress Party that there was an increase in the number of single minimum pensioners. Is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the success of the Advancement Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1839	Yes, we're busy with the weak in society, and the minimum pensioners have been a weak group of incomes. We have raised them now during this period three times with NOK 4000, which is NOK 12,000, and now when the government agreed with the Advance Party of NOK 5000 extra a year for the minimum pensioners, it was very good. The minimum pension list has a pension below the poverty line in Norway and well below the poverty line in the EU. So it's very good that this group is being raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1844	In the budgetary negotiations between the Government and the Progress Party, the Progress Party has been given a clear mark on the year’s budget, for example. through a heavy cut in alcohol and tobacco taxes, something the Christian People's Party has opposed, among other things. for the sake of deferred children. In addition, the Progress Party has been given its stamp by increasing the outage requirement from three to five years for permanent detention in Norway, which means that expropriating women must be in elective conditions even longer in order to remain in the country. We have heard little about the stamp of the Christian People's Party on the budget through these negotiations. What has the Christian People's Party actually achieved in the negotiations between the government and the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1851	It was very important for us to keep the one-percent rate when it comes to development aid, and to help the poorest in the world who have neither food nor – I kept saying – health in these corona times. I think we've got a lot of money to pay for alcohol and tobacco. We don't think that's a good thing. We would want no one to drink or smoke, but it's not like that, so we negotiated. We thought we did quite well that kept the one-percent percentage in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1858	Then there's one line left if Lise Christoffersen wants it. Christoffersen tried to ask for it instead, but then I tried to get a fair distribution of the lines. There is now one more left over – so Christoffersen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1864	Thank you, President. That's very kind. The working party is always ready to take any lines left. Then I want to go back to where we left off, where the representative said that parents of the resident disabled over 18 years of age are well cared for because the school owner has an obligation to arrange an offer. But this applies to more than just those who go to school. It's about people who have a day centre, and it's about people who have a job, who have to be at home for infectious diseases. So these are parents who in the pandemic fall between all the chairs, which one would think were very close to the Christian People's Party's heart. But I note that the Christian People's Party will not support that proposal here today, so I have only one short question in the end: if the Christian People's Party has a pain limit for when the price sick and disabled have to pay for the Christian People's Party's government participation is too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1871	It's going to be a hypothetical question, because we don't know what it's about. When it comes to this matter with children over 18 years of age, it wasn’t the parents we thought about getting organized in connection with school, but it was the children – or the youth, when they were 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1881	2020 is approaching the end of almost 200,000 unemployed. It has been a heavy year for everyone and too many workers in particular, those who have lost the job, those who have worked more than ever, in the first line of welfare and in shops around the country. The fight against Difference Norway is Red's most important thing. What the Storting is dealing with today, and what is lifted from the trade union movement and others who are engaged in this field, is absolutely crucial for us, because it is crucial for the workers and for the entire Norwegian society, not least for a year like this. It is also that part of the budget in which Red makes the most dissident additions, with strong leverage for unemployment, for pensioners, for trade unionists, for those on redundancy pay, and for Nav's grants and predictability, both to be able to deal with the acute crisis and to follow up those who were unemployed before the pandemic hit, and not least to strengthen the fight against social dumping in working life. We are also willing to do more to get through the crisis, but then without sending the bill to the employees. But that's what's the consequence of government policy. Now, state councillor Asheim has been compared to Grinchen, who wanted to steal Christmas, because as state councillor for education he took back money that was originally given to the students. But as Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, he has really got the job of government Grinchen, since he takes away the unemployed income insurance schemes – one at a time. Firstly, from September onwards, those on leave have been halved in the number of days they are paid in full. On 1 November, measures ensuring the security of thousands were closed. The minimum income for daily allowances was doubled. Every month now thousands of people reach the maximum time of day’s pay and work clearance. They fall out of the arrangements, and many ports on the bar hill. In addition, the arrangements for those who do not have a regular job, including both freelancers and cultural workers, have also been weakened by the Asheim Government and the government. As of the new year, the same will happen with even more schemes. Now you lose your daily allowance if you work more than 50 pst. In order not to cross that border and lose a lot of money, people have to say no to guards. When the limit was 60 p.m., Magne Melsetter, a club leader at Scandic in Ålesund, told of this effect. He received support from trustees in the hotel and restaurant industries around the country until they demanded that the permits should be able to work more in periods, without losing all the daily money. It makes a red proposal to the budget. A small point of light is that the system that secures apprentices, for which we got an impact in March, has been continued until further notice, but it is not thanks to the government. It has also been produced as a big news that you can combine education and daily pay. It should just be missing, of course, and it does not help those who are thrown out of the whole scheme, who are the long-term unemployed. Therefore, Red is currently proposing a package of measures on income security, skills development and employment for the long-term unemployed. We know that a vaccine will not solve the problems caused by the unemployment crisis. Those who have been on daily pay this year, hundreds of thousands of workers, get zero in holiday pay for the period they have spent on daily pay. They have to meet electricity bills, rents, mortgages and food purchases next summer with the holiday money bill, but the government doesn't seem to understand the problem. They think – it seems – that holiday money is a bonus, something for fun, for the weekend. It's not like that. Politicians are remunerated 12 months a year. Most employees don't. The holiday money is the salary you get when June comes. Red proposed to have this cleaned up before the summer. Now it's starting to rush, we're getting short of time. I will bring this up in the Red's draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1904	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1911	The appropriations for Nav are important, as Mr. Moxnes mentioned. The centre party fully agrees with that. But that's not enough. Difference Norway is created primarily by the way in which working life is organised. The market also works in the labour market. The weakest, or those who are willing to work for pay and working conditions below the Norwegian level, are in trouble, and a system criticism is needed. We had a debate in the 1970s. Then system critique was what characterized the Marxist-Leninists. My question is about full employment. Is it possible to implement full employment in Norway without having controlled labour immigration from EU countries outside the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1918	I think the answer to that question is that it is not possible. We need to have a regulation of labour imports, which is a much more precise concept. What happens is that employers in Norway have full access to import as much as they want of labour from countries where there is a lower wage level and a lower cost of living than there is in Norway. Labour imports from the EEA are the main drivers of social dumping, because people with Norwegian pay and working conditions are replaced by people who can be accepted or pressured to accept poorer pay and working conditions. Red's policy is that we want a joint regulation of labour imports from the EEA. The remarkable thing is that, for example: The Labour Party wants to move freely on EU premises, i.e. on market liberal premises. If you're for it, you'll never achieve the goals that we're agreed on in the rhetoric. In practice, this will be impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1925	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Moxnes, very much for an honest answer. That's a logical answer. What the representative says, that this is the big driver, I can fully connect. As we both acknowledge, it is also a market for this in working life. One may have good intentions, but the market works, and that problem we have to deal with. I am grateful for what was said about solidarity regulation. It is a demanding and important question to address. Finally, the situation we're in is probably a logical consequence of the fact that this room no longer has control over the labour market. One of the most important things in the history of the Workers' Party was that one should have control in the labour market, that one should not stand by the hand, and that the Stortinget should have power to control the market forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1932	It is clear that when very much of the governance has been left to Brussels and the EU, i.e. to the stronghold of market liberalisation, it is difficult to achieve the objectives set for full employment, to ensure clean conditions in construction sites and to wash their cars, in the cleaning industry and in the hotel and restaurant industries. The trade union movement does absolutely everything they can, but they fight with their backs against the wall as long as employers have full unregulated access at any time to collect as much as they want of labour from countries with lower pay levels than in Norway. We back up the trade movement everything we can on every measure that can give them tools and tools, to try to combat the consequences of the free flow, but as long as you have free flow, as long as you have full access to get as much as you want from the EEA territory, it will ultimately be very difficult, almost impossible, to stop this. It's a cross of thought primarily for the Workers' Party, and maybe not as much for the Center Party and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1939	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1944	The corona pandemic has marked the Norwegian economy strongly in the year that has passed. The opportunity we experienced in March was historically high. The government, and not least the Stortingen, took extensive measures to keep the wheels running. The activity has gradually taken place, and many lay-offs are back to work. Nevertheless, unemployment is clearly higher than before the Korona crisis, and the uncertainty about further development is significant. Not least we have experience in the last few weeks, where the number of permits has increased again. However, the rise in unemployment in November is compared to March. However, although there are still few job vacancies, there is a shortage of labour in some professions and industries. Measures are assessed and adapted to the current situation. It helps to keep the activity in the labour market up and down. We are concerned about the trend towards increased long-term unemployment. Then the danger of permanent alienation increases. As we have experienced in the past, this crisis also affects young people, those with low education and low income and foreign-born extra strong. Those who were already outside when the Korona crisis occurred have got it even tougher. In order to increase the skills of the unemployed and those on leave during periods of absence, we have a system in place to facilitate participation in training at the same time as receiving a daily allowance. The scheme will continue in the first half of 2021. We want to create more and include more. Studies and experience show that well-adapted measures have a positive impact on the transition to work. We are therefore proposing to increase the appropriations for labour market measures by 825 million. kr. Efforts should help to speed up job vacancies, and will strengthen inclusion, youth and follow-up of young people on redundancy payments. In addition, the government proposes about 300 new VTA sites in 2021. An important piece in the fight against unemployment and exclusion is a strengthened and effective Nav. Nav experienced an enormous pressure, with many applications for daily allowances and increased need for follow-up and guidance. In addition, Nav has worked intensively to put in place new or modified schemes decided in Stortinget. The length of time spent on day-to-day pay is now back to normal, but the necessary re-priorities have led to longer time spent dealing, for example. complaints. These are tasks that need to be addressed now. The exceptional situation will follow the Nav into 2021. With a temporary strengthening of the budget of 500 million. Nav is better rusted and can continue to provide good services to users in a demanding time. Several temporary changes were also introduced to the legislation on sickness benefits and care allowances. The health care measures will be continued until 31 March next year. The measures relating to care allowance are proposed to be continued until 30 June. In addition, parents receive double allowances with care allowance in 2021. The government wants to strengthen the fight against unprofessional actors and to facilitate a serious and secure working life. In order to meet the challenges of vulnerable industries, it is important that the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate are visible actors who detect and prevent crime. We therefore propose to strengthen regulatory control and enforcement of supervision. The government’s strategy against crime at work is followed up and a new revised strategy is presented in 2021. Extensive efforts to combat crime at work deliver results. Establishments now experience that those who do not comply with the laws and regulations are at greater risk of being discovered. The Government and the Advance Party agree that in 2021 old-age pensioners will receive a growth corresponding to the average wage and price growth if employees are estimated to gain positive real growth. The pensioners shall not lose more than the employees if the real growth of the employees is estimated to be negative. The Government and the Advance Party also agreed on a further increase in the minimum pension level, equivalent to NOK 5000, with effect from 1 July 2021. This is the fourth time since 2013 that the minimum uniform level of pensions is increasing beyond normal regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1978	We have understood that some of the government's decisions come via SMS requirements from the employers' organisations. Employee organisations have used the more traditional ways of working with the government when they have promoted their demands, including: on holiday pay supplements for the day-to-day allowance so that the next year will not be a July month without any payments. Should employee organisations move to use SMS as a channel to reach their government requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1983	We are well aware of the fact that we do not necessarily need a text message to get our message. They're very clear and clear, and they're easy to understand when we meet them. We've had a lot of meetings with them and not least we've had it over the period we've been in now. I just have to be allowed to say, before I answer the representative's question, that the fact that we have as well-functioning tripartite cooperation, where we sit with the employee's side, the employer's side and the authorities and find solutions in common, has been absolutely crucial to get out of this as well as Norway has, after all, done, even though there is a political disagreement about some measures. In the case of holiday money, as the representative calls it, it's just that we've just introduced another kind of system, just that if you're on leave for more than 52 weeks, you can take four weeks off without getting a cut-off in your daily allowance. The back of the medal with what the representative suggests instead is that you could take a vacation, but then you got the daily allowance reduced during the holiday period because you would rather use what you call a holiday supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1992	Now, asheim State Council shows that the government has no ambition to get more people to work in 2021. If you get to work in January, February, March, April, May or June, and you go on vacation, there will be nothing, no holiday supplement then, because then you are not on a daily allowance. The conclusion must be that here the government has no ambitions to get some of the 200,000 who are on a daily allowance or are now on a leave of absence, back to work. But back to what I was really going to ask. The government in March cut the employer's period, from 15 to 2 days. Who was the government listening to when they did that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e1999	First, our goal is to get people back to work. I'm asking you to believe that. A great deal of what we do about work and business is to ensure that we get more people back to work. But I am not sure if it is a proper resource use then to say that when you are back to work, you will be paid a daily allowance for a period you were on a daily allowance earlier. That is why I believe it is much better to have a system that says that those who are long-term leavers – and some will be – can take their daily allowance. So the representative's question is, who was the one you heard when you cut during the employer's period? Certainly the employers, just as we have heard a lot about the employees about the measures we have taken towards them. Now the employer period is extended for 10 days, just to have an incentive for more employers to take their employees back to work or not to leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2006	I have noticed in this debate that the two words 'full employment' have become more rare. It is quite interesting to observe that they have become rare words, ‘full employment’. Before, of course, it was totally unison. Now very few talk about it. Living by their work is important economic, but not least it is important for dignity. I cannot understand that any parole other than full employment can apply. In order to achieve this, there are many measures, but one of the measures that can help those who are really struggling now, the people with partial working capacity, is wage subsidies to businesses, so that people can get full pay. The enterprise receives a wage and salary subsidy covering the difference between the full wage and the working capacity of the provider. Will the Council of State be positive in investing more in wage subsidies in the year coming to help these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2011	Let me start by agreeing fully with the representative's description of how important it is to have your own income to live on. It doesn't just give money into the account and the ability to pay bills, but it gives a very own independence that is important to us people. So to the representative's question about salary subsidies: this is a majority and a government that has on several occasions invested in wage subsidies and believes it is an important tool. That is why we have introduced a fixed rate of wage subsidies to make this easier. But I think we have to be honest and say – that doesn't mean salary subsidies are good – that many things have to happen. For example, we know that many of those outside the workplace are struggling with mental disorders. I think it's very important to put in place individual job support, to make sure that the youth effort is strengthened, to take action for young people in Nav, and to get them to work in more ways than just pay subsidies. I really don't think this discussion can be boiled down to being for or against one action. That is the sum of the measures and all the different measures we need for groups of different challenges, which are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2018	I know it's become a joke here in Stortinget to say 'to be honest.' It's a concept I have problems with, but it's now. The Council of State is one of those who respond well, so it's a little unfair to mention it to this Council of State. Getting a job when you have a weak position in the world of work must be promoted. I agree that there are many measures, but wage subsidies are a targeted measure that improves demand for precisely these people. What other measures do the State Councils have that have the same effect? Wages and salaries subsidies have been evaluated by research institutions and have received a good certificate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2025	Now I’m not going to say ‘to be honest’, but I’m asking the representative to believe that I’m trying to be that, and then I’m going to leave it with it. I don't want to go into any polemics to argue against salary subsidies, simply because there's something we've also used a lot. But we have e.g. market coordinators in Nav who are in contact with the world of work and find jobs and things suitable for the individual user in Nav, and it is a tool that also works. We thus ensure that more people are given the opportunity to have basic competence. I think we have to admit that too many workers who are struggling to get in, for example. important to have your diploma in place. I think it is very bad that many in Norway say ‘I never got the diploma’, as if there is a deadline to get it. It's clear you're going to get your diploma. It should be possible to do so through the type of competence measures. I think salary subsidies are a good measure. That's why we've done important steps, and as I said, we've set a rate for it to make it easier. But we also need to look at all the measures that help the individual future employee to get into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2034	The government continues with its ABE cut in the public sector in spite of strong resistance. A cut in the workload and the user-friendly services will not work because they will be able to do more tasks at the time they have, either faster or better, set up against the resources allocated. For Nav, this cut means 500 million in total. kr in the period 2015 to 2021. This is the same amount as the one-time Nav will be given next year. It is good that means come to Nav to strengthen the services now in a crisis period. At the same time, a temporary sum will not result in any more fixed additions to Nav. Is there any other way to use that money than temporary additions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2039	Let me start by saying that the grants and appropriations for Nav have been stable throughout our reign. It's not that the sum has been cut on Nav. It's been stable. The ABE reform is a reform in which we ask all public bodies that get this cut, first to streamline, and then see how they can work smarter. It hasn't zeroed the policy, because we're going to split it up. Everyone who follows Storting's work will notice that the state budgets are getting bigger and bigger every year, so that you spend more money, but first you ask everyone to think through how you organize. With regard to Nav, one has just looked at the organisation of Nav, making sure to get away from the old organisation and now get an organisation where, for example. more people are in the offices. Over the current year, 900 million have been granted. kr extra to Nav, and 500 mill. kr to next year. It means something increased in a time that has required a lot of Nav, but they have had stable budgets throughout our government period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2047	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2052	We're starting to look at a year of exceptional state, month after month with uncertainty. There's been a lot of leads in the labour market, but also in people. When the crisis hit us, the Storting gathered to prevent people from standing up without security and income. We agreed that self-employed people who were in practice banned from working would receive a compensation scheme. We agreed to increase the rate of daily allowances and make sure that more people joined the scheme. But as months have gone by, there is not much left of the consensus that was there in March. In a number of cross-sections, the government has proposed to abolish the compensation scheme for self-employed workers, but on the backlog the increased daily allowance rates are continued. However, from 1 November, the government increased the requirement for minimum income, with fewer being caught by the day-to-day payment scheme. Nor has the government extended the maximum benefit period for daily allowances. Month after month, people fall out of the daily allowance scheme, at a time when the labour market is marked by record unemployment. For many, it means no security, no income, with social assistance as the only option. The government itself states that there are an estimated 1,500 people who fall out of the scheme in December. It's a bit of a Christmas present from the government. Since the social partners in the summer were crystal clear that the period of leave had to be extended in order not to lose jobs, stay and shave it. Finally, the government came on the track. It starts to draw a picture of a government that has an excessive response time, a government that has made it a habit to launch schemes to expire, then change its mind and launch something new. Yes, the infection pressure has varied, but the crisis has been hanging over us all along. And as long as it's a crisis, people, businesses and businesses must have the security for us to set up. Proposals to remove measures, then to extend it and perhaps renegotiate it to someone else, do not give an image of control with steady hand. We in the Workers' Party want something completely different. Today, the Workers' Party is promoting proposals for the temporary improvements in the day-to-day pay legislation to be continued until 1 July next year. And those who have expired the maximum daily allowance period are not to be pushed out with the Labour Party's policy. The scheme that the government removed with a pen stroke in 2015, holiday allowance supplement on daily money, we want back. With our policy 266,000 Norwegians had paid holiday money for their daily allowance next year. I think it is completely wrong to operate crisis management using the jojo method. Action up and down, maybe today, but not tomorrow – we can't have it that way. Therefore, the Workers' Party is now setting the bill of money to extend the period of leave. It is a clear signal to the social partners. We give priority to security for ordinary people. Because it is in unsafe times that we need the community of all, most of all. As long as there is a crisis, the measures must last. Many encounter Christmas with an uncertain future, either unemployed or on leave. Will the job be there in the New Year? And how is the family economy going to go around the next few months? That's who we're here for. That's what we're going to do. We're not here to administer tax relief, but we're here for those who lie down tonight, who are genuinely concerned. We're here for those who for the first time on Friday are going to go to the food distribution at the Salvation Army in Sarpsborg, in my city, because they didn't get the end to meet this month. The government hasn't done enough. The government doesn't prioritize ordinary people, and the government prioritizes wrong. The working party wants something completely different. The Labour Party will have a budget and measures for ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2069	In the last year, we have been reminded of the importance of a resilient working life with a high level of employment. We have been reminded of the importance of good welfare arrangements that are right when unforeseen things happen. We have been reminded that the companies are the backbone of the Norwegian economy, and therefore also the backbone of the Norwegian welfare system. When we go into 2021, and hopefully after some time after the coronary apathy, there should be a stronger awareness of the importance of profitable jobs in the private sector for value creation, for our common well-being and for our ability to deal with new, unforeseen situations that challenge the strength of the Norwegian economy – once in the future. The Council of State Asheim and the representative of Nordby Lunde gave a good account of the main features of our budget. The representative Nordby Lunde also spent a lot of time on the ideological basis of how we think about employment and social policy, to which I subscribe. And since this is the last budget debate with this committee in this big time period, I was going to take the opportunity to reflect a little on the debate that has gradually evolved in our field over several years. Unlike the scary image that we often hear from the left-hand side of this room, full-time culture is actually strengthened by this government. The fight against crime at work has escalated. Cooperation with social partners on safe and secure employment has been strengthened. The use of rentals has not significantly increased but is between 1,5 and 2 pst. by employed persons and the proportion of temporary staff has remained stable. It has actually sunk somewhat in these years with bourgeois government. This government is pursuing a predictable policy of creating more and including more. What is becoming increasingly clear, however, is that the left-hand side of its internal struggle to be the clearest option for today's government has left the baton far on the way as opposition leader to the representative Moxnes and the party Red. We saw it, for example. in the debate on the franchise model, where the Workers' Party and the Centre enthusiastically threw themselves on a representative proposal from Red, which would both make it much more difficult to be self-employed in Norway and created uncertainty for more than 120 000 jobs in, among others. the food and service industries covered by this form of organisation. We have seen this in the debate on private welfare actors, where a single left-hand side increasingly uses the derogatory term ‘welfare profitors’ to describe legitimate and serious care businesses that provide quality services with which people are satisfied. And we see it in the constant attacks on serious temporary employment agencies, or recruitment agencies, that burn to give people a foot within the working life, and that can often show very good results, but that are declared undesirable by the pulpit of the Stortinget. It has been interesting to note that the party for self-owned farmers is increasingly engaged in partnership with the party that will liquidate private ownership, and that the Workers' Party in the fight against private employment services is now openly reviving with the idea of banning entire industries. So it's drawing an image where the internal cape battle on the left leads to ever more tough battles against serious, legitimate businesses in the private sector. The left-hand side likes to draw a scare image of the right-hand side, but the reality is that the left-hand side has radicalized itself in meeting an annoying moderate right-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2082	For a while ago, when the government laid out its budget, there were some people who were terribly, terribly disappointed. This applies, inter alia, to: the great crowd on TV BRA, and not least all those with disabilities who have been given the opportunity to work through the HELT MED programme. Fortunately, it turned out that this was a government error, as they fixed in the supplementary proposition, and we are happy for it. With the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, these two important jobs were significantly strengthened, yes, in fact even more people with developmental disabilities will now have the opportunity to be included in normal working life. I know that means incredibly much to those who are involved, and also to those around them. In this context, I would also like to congratulate the organisation HELT MED on the Health Prize 2020. The fine crowd on TV BRA has been here several times on Stortinget and raised very important issues for themselves, but also other issues that are important in society. Just their vision of becoming a national television channel is something the Progress Party, with the support of the government parties, has said that we will bet on. In this regard, many politicians have engaged. Several of them are sitting here in the hall now, and many of them are also in the family and cultural committee. I therefore think it is right to point out that two remarks that should be included in the budget here, by an incubator, have fallen away, because the technology during the corona era has made it a bit demanding sometimes to double-check that things have actually come into the right place. Therefore, I would like to read two comments written by the Progress Party, but as there is a clear view that the government parties also supported. In any case, I would like to have read them from this chair, since I do not know exactly what the solution is, whether it is something that can be recorded or promoted as a proposal. In any case, the first note applies to Chapter 352 entry 70: The progress party indicates that it is proposed to increase the funding for TV BRA by 1 million. kr. The majority point out the democratic importance of the ability of the less developed to communicate news with their own voice. TV BRA has a goal of becoming a national television channel and is doing this job well. The majority stress that this is not a one-off allocation, but a stepping up towards this goal, making the ministry particularly aware of this. Note number two, Chapter 352 item 72: The Progress Party indicates that it is proposed to further increase the appropriations for HELT by 5.4 million. SEK, a total of 10 million. kr. The majority note that too many people with developmental disabilities are involuntarily out of work. The majority refers to the Foundation's project HELT MED to include more people in the world of work. In the additional statement, it was pointed out that in the budget report under the heading, it should be stated that the grant to the Foundation SOR for the project HELT MED – Work for people with disabilities is proposed to continue. The majority are pleased that the error was corrected and are pleased to agree to further increase the grant now. This means a substantial strengthening of the effort to get people with developmental disabilities into work. After dialogue with the government parties, there is reason to believe that this is something you can support. In any case, I would like to stress this on the part of the Advancement Party, and I think it would be better to decide how this should be resolved. It is very stupid that such incubators can arise, but I just have to regret that because of the Corona situation and a lot of digital implementation, I did not notice this until now. So I hope you can forgive us for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2101	The President has no knowledge of what has happened in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, so that might be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2106	It is when the money is to be granted that the difference between social-democratic policy and right-wing policy is all the more evident. The Labour Party wants the big money to go to the most important tasks in society, which means most in the lives of ordinary people. For the Workers' Party, work, well-being and social justice are most important. On the right hand side, the tax bond continues for the richest. It is not possible to understand, especially now that countries and people are in the middle of a serious pandemic where both jobs and well-being are at risk. When nearly 200,000 are unemployed and the differences between those who have, and those who do not, just increase, it affects the trust in society in the wrong direction. Our joint fund must be used to get people out of work and to save jobs in town and built throughout the country, while at the same time strengthening the welfare arrangements for those who do not have a job to go to or who for health reasons do not have the opportunity to work. Solidarity creates trust in a society. Increased differences do the opposite. At the same time, it is essential that our welfare institutions have enough resources and well-functioning systems and procedures that make those who struggle in everyday life feel seen, heard and cared for. Nav is one of the most important in this way. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I will first of all be allowed to commend the Nav employees for the efforts they have made, and still do, for the benefit of their users, both to the ordinary and not least now in the extraordinary situation in which we stand. These employees also deserve to be seen and heard. During the year's budget, Nav received an extraordinary allocation of around 900 million. NOK to repair some of the extra pressure caused by the corona. Now we're in the middle of a new wave of infection, but the extraordinary allocation is almost halved in next year's budget. As if not enough, the government and the majority continue the headless so-called red tape and efficiency cuts, which are pure cheese needs without goals and meaning. There's going to be a lot of money gradually, about half a billion in total just in Nav, and until all the overmeasures, the thumb screw was pulled further, from 0.5 to 0.6 pst. cut, in the budget agreement in Stortinget. On top of that again, the budget-mates of the Stortinget – Right, Christian People’s Party, Left and Advance Party – demand that the government introduce another so-called efficiency strategy for the public sector. It can hardly be read as anything but a pre-war — a pre-war warning about new rounds of privatisation, cut public welfare services and cut into social benefits, which has become the trademark of the Solberg government, regardless of which batches go out and in there. In the alternative budget of the Workers' Party, we warn against continuing on this gallery. The government should stop and be honest enough, as some have spoken about, to make the consequences of this cut policy visible both in terms of the increasing differences between people and in terms of the quality of the services provided. This is particularly important for users and employees in Nav. We have not yet come to the bottom of the Nav scandal. It was over a year ago that the Council of State stood on the pulpit of the Grand Duchy and had to complain that people were unjustly required to repay the money they were actually entitled to, and that people were convicted and had been in prison for something they would never have been charged with. Many are still waiting for upliftment and repayment. In November this year, the Council of State presented the report of the Committee of Inquiry. A culture is described in Nav that is serious. There is no room to ask questions about established truths. Questions that have been asked are not captured. In addition, there are several reorganisations and sit-downs. The sum of all this we know: people who had it hard from before were hit hard, to quote a member of the presidency here, and the trust in Nav is severely weakened. It is also serious and also unfair to those who work closely with the users. Nav has to be close to people, not to people. So far, we have not seen any evidence of what action the Council of State and the government will take to prevent the recurrence of the scandal and re-establish confidence in Nav. I guess cheese chewing is not exactly the best tool in that way. The Labour Party will therefore replace cheese with a trust reform. It means increased trust and authority of the employees in the first line. They know the users best. Users who experience and hear become important ambassadors for renewed trust, which both users and Nav employees really deserve and society needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2127	For more than three years I have commuted from men and children to participate in the debates at Stortinget. It is often painful to travel from the children, especially when the 5-year-old clings around my neck and asks if I can't be at home. It's a price, but I choose to believe that's the price that women now pay, and that it will make everyday life and working life easier for those who come after us. The dream of the future is a family and work life where everyone is equal, and where we have stopped putting each other in booths. For women still have a long way to go, despite being the world's most equal country. I'm self-realizing here in the capital, while some people are worried about how the kids are doing. Fortunately, I'm a good man. My three years at Stortinget have been a surrealistic experience – instructive, inspiring, engaging, incredible fun, but also frustrating. The debate on the Storting is different than I thought. There are contradictions. We'll be put in booths. The motives are mistrusted – the goals as well. As a representative of the Right-Registration, I am regularly accused of working for the richest and against ordinary workers. I think I'm with you, and I'm brutalizing my work. I work for the few, not for the many. Unfortunately, the black paint won't end. On weekends I come home to husband and children, happily married in the 13th year. We met at a warehouse, in a common love for trucking and each other. When we lie on the sofa on Friday evenings, we have to shake a little on the head of what the world has been like. We are not aware of this background that is still facing us in the public debate. He's still a warehouse worker, I've become a politician. But we're still the same people as when we met, behind each of our trucks. The difference is that we are now also working to support a large family, while I have been committed to ensuring that the welfare state will be sustainable, including for the coming generations. It's a powerful task. It seems that the road from storage staff to politicians is paved with bad intentions. I think most politicians get engaged because they want to contribute to something, and because they want to make the world a better place, but we don't agree on how. For the right, it's about giving opportunities to everyone and putting people in front of the system. The biggest differences are between those who have a job to go to, and those who don't. It's about early action. The right has worked for eight years to make sure that students learn more at school, that they meet good teachers who see the individual. The right has the best school policy. It evens out differences, and it gives you more possibilities. Competence becomes more important for the future. But it's also about giving room to those who fall outside. Then we need companies that see the value of the inclusion virtue and give people a foot within. This is why the Right has focused on labour market measures and a strong increase in permanent job creation. It has created sunshine stories, both about employees and about employers. It is also about putting the quality of service first. We're talking about part-time jobs, where women are often overrepresented. In this debate we should have talked more about which offers to meet us. If I need help, I will meet with competent health professionals who regularly exercise their profession and keep the knowledge straight through the enhancement of competence. Then we need a full-time culture, with full-time jobs, and in order to get to this, we depend on the number of hours going up, through the day, through the day, through the week, through the year. A distinction between shift and rotation work does not promote quality as a goal. We have to put the individuals in front of the systems. It should be more about quality in front of ideology also in the welfare sector. We need to talk about the welfare innovators. We have to bring forward those who want to give our older people a better offer, just as we are proud of those who build our roads. 2020 should be the year when we stop putting each other in booths and define industries and motives differently depending on gender representation. Together, we're going to contribute. The sustainability of society is threatened by those who try to create a balance between us. When emotions, fear and ideology take on a fact-based societal debate, it should scare most of us. It's a cross of thought that the social debate has taken that direction. Still, a caricer picture is drawn of cold and speculative rich people against ordinary workers. In that picture, we're all going to be losers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2154	It is quite remarkable to hear the representatives of the right-hand side use their own personal experience as the very basis for their political choices. Of course, it is important to bring the human aspects of their own and others' lives into the policy, but to say that what suits me, must suit everyone else, is foreign to me. Saying that since I didn't need unemployment benefits, or since I have a safe job, or since the systems that provide income protection for the weaker people in society are not necessary for me and my family, neither are they necessary in society, is the truest expression of the right. They then leap over the fact that social development is not the result of discussions around the dinner table. Societal development is the result of policies. The changes we now see in a number of European countries are changes that occur as a result of systems changing people's lives: increasing differences in working life and impaired rights for many workers. If something is to be done about it, policies are also crucial. The fact that Norway has come through as well as many crises that Norway and western countries have experienced is the result of policies, not coincidences. If we are to get out of this crisis, too, as a society with little differences between people, high employment and well-being for everyone, it is the policy that determines. From the right-hand side, I have not heard any new ideas in this debate about how to secure it – no new bets. There will be more of the same then, obviously: tax cuts to the richest, short-term and unfair crisis measures, cutting privatisation of our well-being – and otherwise you will let it scour and walk. Every time we ask for measures on behalf of the workers, the trade union movement and the serious employers, the government only shows that they have a sample working. They shall deliver their nomination on 1 June and shall be sent to the hearing. Summary: There will not be a single new measure by this government to clean up the labour market and provide more security to workers. Whether it's because the government is tired, or whether it's because they know that the right side loses choices if the issues of working life become an important question in the election campaign, I don't know. Maybe it's a combination. That's why it's more interesting to talk about how working life becomes with a red-green government, with the Workers' Party at the head. Well, it's going to be a government for a fairer Norway. It's going to be a government that says, "Now it's the turn of the workers." There will be a government betting on a fair working life, fair taxes, fair pensions and a welfare state that stands out for everyone. More people should get a regular job, more people should get a full job, everyone should have a lifelong learning opportunity. More people will have a safer working life with better rights; more will have good opportunities in the workplace. We get a big cleaning in the world of work, where we start with the most vulnerable industries, such as car washing, cleaning and transportation. We will provide public procurement rules, the Norwegian model, which prioritises serious enterprises with permanent jobs, skilled workers and apprentices. We need to reintroduce collective redress, strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, increase the penalties for pay theft and ensure that investigations are prioritised. Workers will get more money for their wages and pensioners will get a fairer pension. The list shall be clear, so that workers notice the difference from day one if the Workers' Party becomes a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2169	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2174	The heir to Erna Solberg and this government are twice as many young destitutes. Under this government, there has been an increase in the number of young people who are disabled and young people on health-related benefits. The inclusion duty, which we have heard representatives talk about earlier today, cannot be seen as anything but a skull or a half-hearted attempt to do anything about the real problem. This government has made it more difficult for more young people to fit in with the labour market. Too many young people are on the outside, and with the coronary apathy and a tougher labour market there is reason to fear that there will be even more. We can't afford young people not to use their abilities or get to work. The representative Nordby Lunde and the government parties, in the setting we are dealing with, make a half-hearted attempt to misrepresent the reason that there is an increase in the number of young people. They say that ‘the increase is due to the fact that more and more people live longer with serious malformations and diagnoses’. It's right that more people live longer with serious malformations, but it only explains part of the picture. What the right-hand side jumps over is to explain the rest of the increase. In the report of the Employment Committee, we can read that: ‘However, most of the 29-year-olds who are unfit for work or receive redundancy benefits have had health-related benefits since they turned 20’. The right approach may almost indicate that they do not understand the seriousness of the problem. Last year, the government chose to cut redundancy payments for young people. The argument was that the young people themselves had to pay for closer follow-up on Nav. But when we ask how much closer follow-up they have received, how many more supervisors there are, or how many more people have come to work as a result of the inclusion duo, we get no good answers. The government has cut the redundancy pay scheme. The result is more impoverishment and more social assistance. We cannot accept that young people who can work start a lifelong career at Nav. Young people need skills, follow-up and a chance to succeed. We in the Labour Party believe that we have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. That is why, in our alternative state budget, we are proposing a closer follow-up of young people, and we want an activity reform, because young people must have the opportunity to get away with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2193	In the government budget for next year, the Central Party points out that in securing a Norway with small differences, regional initiatives should be an important tool. Area efforts are about equalising living conditions in vulnerable living conditions. The Central Party proposes some appropriations for next year's government budget and refers to a proposal from the Central Party, with Jan Bøhler at the head, on new area initiatives against outsiders among children and young people. The proposal proposes a number of measures to strengthen and target regional initiatives, as well as measures to get young people outside, into work and activity. I think the Center Party has been sleeping for an hour. Hasn't the party come to realize that we're in a new phase in the area bets? Today, the City Council of Oslo works with many measures to prevent exclusion: We're testing out a volunteer eleventh year of school. We have a multidisciplinary psychosocial follow-up of students who after three years of high school have not completed and are considering dropping out. We have a cooperation project between Earth School and Old Oslo, which aims to develop a model of extra support for the transition between youth and higher education. The target group is students with high absences and low primary school credits. We are working on monitoring vulnerable young people to learn more about the non-school or Nav group, in order to provide targeted follow-up, for example, in practice. We design, test and establish new work processes for good and efficient transitions and interaction between different services that are vulnerable to youth. We implement code training measures where young people in a short period of time develop their skills in IT and programming, social and relative skills and self-esteem – elements essential for success in the labour market. At Bjørnholt School, we want to design a meeting point that will help to further develop the field of electrical engineering and establish closer cooperation between vocational education and training, industry and the community, with green technology in focus. Today I have a message for the Center Party: Wake up, you have slept long enough. Yesterday, the representative of the Central Party, Heidi Greni, spoke on several occasions in the budget debate of the Municipal Committee. Here the Center Party raises important issues and suggestions I am pleased to discuss. But until then, I hope the party spends time well and gets involved in the work that is already being done to reduce exclusion and help dropout youth in the area bets that are already in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2224	Surveys from Nav show that in the 18–29 age group, 20,065 young people were disabled in Norway at the beginning of 2020. The corresponding figures for 2009 were 7,951 persons. This is an increase of over 150 pst. in ten years, and we can't have it in our country. We have to give young people who are struggling, help master the entrance to adult life so that more people avoid life outside. It's good for the people involved, and it's good for society. We cannot allow an increasing number of young people to be reduced to an economic cost item of tens of millions through a lifetime — in addition to lost tax revenue and lost value creation. For some it is right to be young destitute, but not at all for all those who are dissatisfied today. According to Røe Isaksen, VG. This power plant already exists. The interaction model Saltdals, developed by RIBO and Vev-Al-Plast, has been well tested and researched through NTNU since 2011. Half of those who are qualified for disability benefit, or who are on their way to it, get a different life after this help 24/7. The model assumes that someone is in debt with the youth with housing, work, active leisure and treatment over time. In Saltdal, self-help from each youth is combined with resources from the Special Health Service and Nav. The Special Health Service finances to support the treatment component of the model, Nav contributes with AFT sites, and each participant invests in its own future by its AAP. Until this year, young people could also invest their own disability benefits into the offer, but from this year on they will not be allowed to enter the offer any longer if they are already young. Lars, aged 21, was dissatisfied when he entered the Saltdal model. He had four different diagnoses, lack of attendance skills, felt useless and dared not see people in his eyes. After three years of work training and treatment in the model, all the diagnostics were deleted. Lars has completed a letter of competence in manufacturing technology and was an apprentice at Nexans when he left the Saltdal model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2235	I thought I'd say a little about listening, because last week we could read in the evening post that the government not only listened to Norwegian Industry in the design of quarantine rules for labour immigrants, Norwegian Industry and NHO wrote even the supervisor, and the government topped it all by changing the regulation so that the supervisor could be put out in life. Then we've heard afterwards that you didn't listen to the health advice, which strongly warned you not to introduce the quarantine waiver that NHO and Norwegian Industry would have. In the same week, we are told that although municipalities like Bodø do not get paid in close proximity to what they need to deal with the coronary pandemic, Bø in the Vesterålen is going to waste money because they have voluntarily cut their own income in order to become a tax haven. The whole of Norway is going to pay to make it possible for nationals to tax less, and it's once again clear to whom the government is listening to. So who is the government not listening to? The LO, the Joint Confederation, the Joint Organisation, the NITO and the YS have all recommended more work-oriented action areas to meet the enormous unemployment we have right now. The government has not listened. LO has been quite clear that reintroducing the holiday supplement for the unemployed is one of the most important recommendations, both because it is fair and because it is good economic policy. The government has not listened here. The Joint Association, LO and a number of other trade unions have recommended the continuation of the temporary day-to-day arrangements. Creo recommends that the temporary income hedge schemes for self-employed persons be continued until the summer. Has the government been listening? No, that's the answer. When we have a government that listens so uncritically, we can end up with bad politics. I believe that it is important to listen to both employers and employees when it comes to action, especially in a situation where we have record high unemployment. Listening to the trade movement is better than listening to text messages from NHO peaks on the field. Finally, I hope the representative in his next post can explain what I tried to ask him about in a reply. He's been a heroic defender that you have to be able to get up to 90 pst. in retirement if you have a public occupational pension and that 66 pst. payments should be just a floor. But what about the laundry service that works in a part-time position in the municipality? Or what about others who work in the public sector, who are not going to be paid out for their occupational pension, because we're raising the minimum pensioners? What is the Central Party's answer to those who lose their supplementary pension because you don't get a payoff for it? Is it just those who make a lot of money that are going to have that countdown?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2250	In the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party, they cut 8 million. kr to the Petroleum Control Authority in the initiative originally proposed by the Government, which was insistently opposed to all events which have recently affected, in particular, Equinor and the petroleum sector. With all the serious events this year, this is really not the time to cut here. The Committee is well aware that both protection and trust in this sector have been significantly more difficult over the last few years, while the trustees and trade unions report that there has been a cutback in the company, which in general affects the overall image of security. Working in the oil and gas sector is more uncertain now than before. It's just that it's becoming a very serious situation here. But I thought I'd mention several of the points in the SV's alternative state budget and use my post on it. We're reversing the cut in children's glasses, and we still think it's as unlikely now as last year that the Christian People's Party has not managed to bring this in. We will continue all the temporary corona measures for daily allowances until June next year, as a result of the long-term economic situation and consequences for workers. We reverse the unsocial gap for disabled people, both in the children’s supplement and the shielding supplement, and we have spent money on 1,500 new action areas for young people. I note that if you look at the alternative budgets of more of the other parties here, including the Progress Party, there are multiples in the Chamber to put in place many more VTA places than what has been the result of the negotiations between the Progress Party and the Government, and what will be agreed. It is a great pity that both the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have managed to negotiate away this unity. It doesn't seem that the Christian People's Party has once noticed the plurality that is in the hall. Overall, the alternative budget of the Left Party is very good. It is a budget far greater than the government budget that takes up today's situation for people in the Nav system and for workers in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2267	Recycling is a nice thing, and therefore I intend to reuse a lot of my contribution from the financial debate – not because it was so crunchy well written, but because the matter is so important. Then I want to start with the mantra of the right, what they like to call «sustainable well-being». Then there's a danger, because that means exactly the opposite, and those who have to bleed for the treasure for the rich are the least of them. Every year, the Solberg government, no matter what bourgeois parties sit there, has cut short in popular fear. The aim – to ensure that those who become unemployed, sick, injured or disabled – is not for everyone. The rich run away, they get at least hung after, and the corona reinforces the differences. The working party is particularly concerned about the many people who do not need follow-up after the strong cuts in redundancy pay – higher thresholds in, shorter time, fewer extensions and one year waiting time. We suggest removing the withdrawal period and giving the right to extend for those who are not finished but are voted down. The system doesn't work according to purpose, said the government, took the benefit from people, and flipped, that problem was solved. For those affected, this is when the problem really starts. We have many stories from people who are desperate, sick, without income, scratched for everything. Black paint, says the right parties. No, it's not black paint, it's right-hand politics. One example, let's call her Anne: She has high education, well paid work, pays social security contributions, but then is accidentally out, with serious consequences. She said three things: all I want is to get well! The worst thing is not to be believed. When it comes to deciding life is reduced to a bunch of papers. A comprehensive documentation from an overall medical expertise was simply put across by an advisory doctor she had never met. She was refused, with the reason: you're too healthy. It was two years without income. Henrik is a truck driver. It doesn't go any further. He has tried other professions, but strong asthma puts an end to most of the time. He's 25 years old in a couple of weeks. Last year the Christmas gift from Erna Solberg was cut in the social welfare allowance of 33 p.m., to NOK 134 000. He asks, "Why should I be punished for being young?" Anne and Henrik are not the only ones. We've had an online meeting with many, so many that we had to arrange a meeting number two. The stories are astonishingly similar: uncertainty for the future, no one to talk to, lacks money for drugs and treatment, goes into debt, someone has children. It's easy to blame for Nav, but this is politics, specifically right-wing policy. The working party stands for the opposite. We re-prioritise and want the richest to pay more for our common well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2282	I was going to link some comments to some of the posts that have been held after my reply. One is from the representative of Grande, who, first of all, felt that it was completely pointless that representatives of the right-hand side also referred to their own stories in political discussions. I can only say that not least the very good contribution that the representative Nordby Lunde made at the beginning of this debate is an answer to an accusation that comes over and over again from the same parties that Grande is part of, that people on the right-hand side don't know how it feels to experience something demanding. It's not because you say we have a fasitite based on having experienced different things. All people have experienced different things. All you ask on the right is to be believed in, and then you don't say that you have the fasit of everything. Furthermore, the representative of Grande said that there are no new measures, that there are no measures for, for example: helping more people back. Well, one of what this government has done is to admit that for many of those who are pushed out of work, it's about something much more complex than just the discussion: is there the workplace? For example, this is a case in point. to follow-up people with mental disorders that seem to be extra demanding to have to provide as much as anyone else at a workplace and who can get help through, for example. individual job support to get that job. It's all about understanding that you also have to have the skills at the bottom, have the diploma in place, and we're giving you more opportunity to get that promise. It is about having an activity obligation for social welfare recipients under 30 years of age, so that you are met with activity and expectations, not just benefits. And it's about working with the workforce or the training, with both the market and the training coordinator. The representative of Grande concluded – and I allow myself to do this because the representative of Grande is a tough rhetoricist himself – saying that maybe we were just afraid that the election was going to be too much about working life. Well, first of all, I think the election campaign both in 2013 and 2017 was a lot about working life, and there was a civil majority in both elections. But in the last year, working life has definitely shaped the political debate, and it's worth asking the representative of Grande how he thinks it goes for his party. So the representative Lise Christoffersen said that she had not seen any action from the government to deal with the Nav case, to say it correctly, so did not see any trace of what the government would do. It can't be undisputed, simply because we have a review report that's now ready, all things in Nav are settled, and you're now looking for more things that are not known. This with EEA law has been identified as a risk area. Strengthening competence in both the Nav and the Department. I'm not saying we're done cleaning up this serious matter, but it's done a lot, and it's also for those who are affected to know. That's why I felt a need to say it also from the pulpit. Then I will finally – because it may be the last time – say good Christmas to the Committee and also to the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2295	Thank you very much! It will be returned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2300	The Central Party is in favour of transferring the extended TT regime relating to organised transport, i.e. the payment of leisure trips for blind and wheelchair users, currently financed by the Ministry of Transport budget, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and administered by Nav. Because Nav has the best assumptions to practice such a state welfare scheme, where the health situation is crucial for performance. This will complete today's work and education journeys, which are already under labour market measures on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I hope the Council of State notices this. The centre batch adjusts, as the only batch, a number of benefits, such as: basic social assistance, grants to hearing aids and activity assistance for persons over 26 years of age. We increase the union deduction to NOK 4 700, which is the same real value as in 2016. We are strengthening the regionalisation of areas in large cities with specific living conditions challenges of 50 million. kr. This is not least important, for example: in Groruddalen, Oslo and Drammen. I noticed the post from the representative Siri Gassemyr Staales, who said there was a lot going on in Oslo. That's great. I'm willing to admit that as a contractor for Buskerud I don't know Oslo so well, but Jan Boehler is among those who know the city fairly well, to be diplomatic. And I hope the Workers' Party is happy that the Centre Party now has an additional budget allocation for this – we are responsible for that budget line – of 50 million. kr. The centre part goes in to increase the allocation of children's glasses by 70 million. NOK to correct some of what happened earlier. As for the employee party representative who raised the question of supplementary pensions, I agree that supplementary pensions will be eaten up when the minimum pensions increase, but the working party is probably also in order to increase the minimum pensions, and then it is probably difficult to avoid that consequence. As far as coordination is concerned, there is a discussion that we have had for a long time in another case. The essence of that matter is that if a person waits to take out a pension for the people and remains in the job, the sum of the pension for the people and the occupational pension will be a high benefit. That is quite correct, and that benefit will also be high for those born after 1 January 1963. I would also like to say that the representative Arild Grande referred to social change in Europe, and he focused on the system. I'm very happy about that. One of the main problems in Norway today is that the system has changed, so that we have had uncontrolled labour immigration. So we don't have the opportunity, like before, to have full employment, and that's one of the big problems that the Labour Party and others now have to discuss seriously and in a completely different way from what has happened so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2319	I was asked for some bets. We've been to a lot already, but it's worth taking some time to speak on HELT MED, which is really one of the organisations that's been working on breaking down prejudices and promoting inclusion. They treat mentally retarded people as jobseekers and conduct structured interviewing sessions before they are lucky enough to get a job in a nursing home, a hotel or a restaurant. It's easy to think of sin on vulnerable groups in society, but it's sad if we don't make demands on them, to make demands is to care, and that means we believe in them. Everyone needs a chance, and they see it working in whole MED. Over 100 people have got a job through this project. Professor Karl Elling Ellingsen of the National Environment of Competence in Development Prevention has mentioned this as one of the most important things that has happened in the field since the HVPU reform in the 1990s, so it is a battle effort. In addition, several representatives have stressed that we are strengthening labour market measures, we have several long-term job creations, we are strengthening Nav, we are strengthening the interpreting service, and we are strengthening activity tools. One has already done a lot. Our main point is that we're going to create more and include more. It is funny when the representative Grande repeatedly comes up to this pulpit and gives the impression that the workers will now be allowed to stand up when the Workers' Party comes to the government power. It's a fact that when Arild Grande's party sat with power, they sat for eight years and looked at a labour immigration that began in the 2000s, without doing anything. It had to be a minister from the Right to tighten up and make demands to define permanent employment, cancel zero-hour contracts and everything that has been done in the rental case, which we have discussed several times. Apprentices are required, two levels of public contracts are required, and the Institute for Social Research has in fact found that there are more permanent employees today than in 1995. I'm worried about the election next year, because it's going to be a choice of ideology ahead of quality. Those who are in the dry boat and are well, we are in the public sector, while private business is trying to fight for life, and we are doing everything we can to make them survive. Thanks from the left is saying that this is a sneak privatisation, and we're going to remove this, instead of thinking that we need a strong public sector that is getting stronger in interaction with the private sector. The heat wave is still nearby. We can't take the time to ri ideological chauffeurs, we have to take care of a working life where everyone gets involved. I hope that the Workers' Party can start to hear a little bit about Tor Andreas Bremnes from Manpower and Roy Inge Nilsen, who both represent their party, and who says that the crew industry is important, because it's not just employment services, but it's competence development and further development of skills. They're strictly regulated. They want to keep going. They ask you to listen to them too. I believe that for the future working life, we are dependent on having that industry as well, with the trust-elects who also represent the Workers' Party there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2336	We have witnessed several serious accidents related to the Norwegian base in the last year. There has been a very serious fire at Equinor's plant on Melkøya, outside Hammerfest, which one spent a long time shutting down. There has since also been a very serious fire at Equinor's facilities on the Tent God in More and Romesdal. Both of these cases are now being examined by the Petroleum Control, and it is expected that the Petroleum Control will produce a report, at least on the fire at Melkøya, around the turn of the year. The peer review has also highlighted a number of weaknesses in Equinor and their work on health, the environment and safety. This is very serious, because it concerns the safety of the workers working on the base and on the Norwegian farms. And it's particularly serious that these things are revealed to a company in which the state sits with the majority of shares, Equinor. I would like to challenge the responsible State Council of Petroleum Supervision, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, to take the floor here today to explain what he intends to do about these serious events, and whether he, together with his colleague, who represents the State of the General Assembly of Equinore, the Minister of Oil and Energy, will come to the Storting and explain these serious events when the Petroleum Authority has presented its reports, which there is reason to believe will happen in a short time. These are so serious matters, so serious incidents, that the Storting must be informed about them in their full breadth, and I therefore hope that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs can now, during this debate, confirm that the government will make a statement on these matters in the Storing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2345	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2351	Just a few brief comments on things that have been mentioned. I just want to draw the attention of the representative, Lundtigen, to the fact that it is fully possible to give an extra co-ordination deduction at the bottom of the income scale as well, as it is possible to give it at the top. Then I would like to strike a blow for proposal No. 33, from the Workers' Party. I think I perceived the representative of the Christian People's Party so that there might have been some misunderstanding about what our proposal is all about. So it's about securing the parents who have to be at home from their own jobs because their home-dwelling eighteen-year-olds who are usually at work, school or day care centres have to be home for infectious diseases and actually have needs for supervision. Those parents are falling between all the chairs and deserve our attention. We would also like to support our proposal No. 26, in 100 p.m. job guarantee for the disabled, and then also with the address of the representatives from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2360	It was the representative Haltbrecken who specifically asked me to answer a question. In the case of those – quite correctly – serious cases that have occurred on some of the oil installations, we are following closely up as well. I have also had my own meeting with the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Petroleum Control, last week, to get a broader account of what you have done, what you think can be the cause, how you follow up on closing the deviations, etc. The case is that it is the responsibility of the companies to provide safety, and then it is the responsibility of the supervision to supervise. Petroleum monitoring has a wide range of tools that they can implement. They also cooperate with the police where it is necessary to report and investigate, etc. So the system as such works well. So finally, there was a question about whether we would come to Stortinget and explain. I think I can answer on behalf of all the government councils that if the Storting asks the state councils to come up to explain a matter, we will, of course, do it. How this is to be handled by Stortinget, it is up to Stortinget to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2369	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2374	The representative Tonning Riise had an ideological greeting to the Center Party. The statement was that ‘self-righteous farmers go into partnership with the party that wants to liquidate private ownership’. [[...]] I can ensure that there is no company going on. We know our story, we know our ideology. But the most interesting thing is that the right party is now going in to take away the concession law for agricultural properties. But they don't stop there – they're going to take away the law of nobility in the Constitution. What's interesting is that the party Red – by all means – is going in today to keep the law of nobility in the Constitution, which is something that the Right is opposed to. That's what's interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2381	I just want to make it quite clear that the Christian People's Party can agree on a very large number of partial proposals from the various parties, but in one government we vote in favour of it negotiated by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2386	As the pandemic was a fact, the government put in place intervention, forceful and temporary measures to secure jobs and compensate for loss of income for both workers and traders. We have always said that these measures need to adapt to the situation, so that we do not risk these measures themselves being a barrier to conversion and that more people are going to be unemployed any longer. The evaluation of the changes we made in the marshalling scheme showed that probably more lay-offs were made than necessary. It is then interesting to see that the government parties are now promoting a policy to take Norway out of the crisis and get people back to work as soon as possible, while the Labour Party representatives call it jojo policy when we say that we want to adapt the measures to the situation, and rather want to extend temporary measures themselves, which in worst cases can inhibit the necessary growth and get people back to work. The representative of Christoffersen said that it is when the money is granted that the priorities are made visible. The main priority of the Labour Party for work and inclusion is therefore to reintroduce a holiday supplement in order to allow those who have been available to take leave. I understand that it is felt as a handshake for just securing the income of that holiday month, but for the Right it is all, the most important thing to secure work and income in the other eleven months. Bill of 3.4 billion. kr is also sent to those who should spend the money to create the jobs in which people are to be included. It is not to be understood that the tax fixation continues, it is said from the parties that will increase the taxes and costs of those who will create the jobs. The left side obviously has no – absolutely no – ambitions to get Norway going, where we create more and include more, but will also give priority to extending measures and social security. Nor do they have any ambitions that the public sector can be better organised, despite, for example: The automation of parental carers released around 200 Nav case handlers, who can now work on other issues elsewhere. After seven years of ABE reform, Nav has more employees than when the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV put in government, and they also deal with more issues. They also provide a faster and closer follow-up of those who were on redundancy pay, who during the previous government went on for years without clarification, but Nav now says that they have been allocated resources and now clarify more quickly both for work and for disability for those who need it. We're never satisfied with where we are, and you shouldn't be either, because society is under constant development. Therefore, we should not say that with this, the government has put forward a perfect budget to make a perfect situation, but as I started with earlier today, we are still on the top of the UN living conditions survey. I think it's okay to bring it with me, as we now want to have a good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2402	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8. At the request of the Business Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2432	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2439	Case No. 10 is subject to a temporary add-on scheme for enterprises with costs for the entry quarantine when a person uses a foreign labour force, and that applies to those who do not benefit from a quarantine hotel. The syllables are mentioned in the financial settings. That's set at 480 million. kr to the order. This applies to the law necessary to administer and manage the scheme. I'd like to congratulate the committee. This matter went to the Council of State on Friday, and on Monday the Committee had delivered its opinion – not as a stamping office, but after a real political process through the weekend. We have first time treatment now, and then hopefully there will be a second time treatment on Saturday, so this will come into effect. We've done some clarifications. First of all, a system underpinning the Administrative Act would grant a three-week right of appeal. It's very short time, so the committee has asked that a person use the regulatory secret to give a six-week notice of complaint. The process in the ministry was also short and fast, but despite this, there were several speakers — good and relevant — and the committee stresses that a bet government is looking at these when designing the regulations. The scheme should be industry-neutral, although perhaps construction/installations and the shipbuilding industry are the ones that will benefit most. There is also a point to pay for the use of Norwegian labour, and if you can choose between the workers from so-called red countries and so-called green countries, you will be paid to choose from the green countries. In this regard, the central party wanted the arrangement to be a little longer. We thought it would be short that it only goes out of February. We believe that if the need falls away, it will take care of itself, but we also record that one of the regulations will be able to extend the system, and is concerned that it happens early. When it comes to the proposal from SV in the second case – on the proposal of the representative – we should give it a tribute to SV for it. There is no doubt that the government has fallen in the fall and could have a faster payment scheme, but it is our opinion that where we are now, there is no faster way to solve this than the course that the department is working on. It is also a proposal that one of the next crisis packages should assess a temporarily reduced VAT rate for serving services. That proposal is a hope that the Labour Party will support, in addition to the Progress Party and the Centre Party. With that, I will take up the suggestions that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2460	The representative Geir Pollestad then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2465	The representative's motion for a resolution on file No. 9 is about saving healthy businesses from bankruptcy pending the start of payments from the compensation scheme. So the proposal is a powerful expression that we are in a situation right now that is not satisfactory in many businesses and in relation to very many jobs. This matter has been dealt with expeditiously within the Committee, and it is initially an overall committee which shares the view that the situation is serious and that the proposal has good intentions. But from there on to finding a solution to how to manage payments faster than what the government has proposed, as we approach the Christmas season, the majority of the committee has not succeeded in finding good solutions. The Ministry of State and the Council of State state state that it is not possible to establish payment arrangements with regard to the liquidity of the business that needs it before the compensation scheme is in place on 18 January at 2.30 p.m. 8:00 a.m. Then a search on it can be heard. The majority accept that, but it is still worth stressing a few things in addition to that in this case. First, in a letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that if one had opened up innovation in Norway to deal with that kind of issue, there would be a place between 6,000 and 25 000 applications for innovation in Norway. It is a serious expression of the situation in large parts of Norwegian business. It's also a very strong expression that we're too late for many of the companies that are in a liquidity crisis. When we know that one in eight can go bankrupt -- NHO says today that one in seven can go bankrupt during the time we go into -- there's no doubt that this situation is demanding. For the Labour Party, we support proposal No. 6, from SV, in addition to the setting, which we're behind. In addition, today we have made a loose proposal that states that it is okay for Stortinget to also now stress that we have a continuous – as long as the pandemic is above us – a system that can continuously pay out cash to business, if it is needed, so that one does not package down what is now established in connection with the Brønnøysund registers. In the case of the second case, Case No. 10, I will address the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV. Then I'm going back to clarify some of the Workers' Party's views in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2478	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2483	The rapporteurs have well explained the handling of both the legislative proposal and the proposal for a representative. As I said, it has been working intensively, but certainly with matters throughout the weekend to ensure a quick treatment in Stortinget. I want to thank both the Committee and the Minister of Industry, with her staff, for the cooperation. The bill now under consideration is necessary in order to ensure a subsidy scheme for those enterprises that have expenditure to cover the costs of the entry quarantine when using foreign labour. The grant scheme itself is detailed in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1. What we are dealing with here is the legal wording of the grant scheme itself. It is an overall committee which supports the observation that the right to appeal should be extended to six weeks in the regulation. Despite the high unemployment rate, companies currently rely on foreign competence. However, the grant scheme is designed in such a way that there is no full cost coverage but partial cost coverage. It is not an incentive to use non-resident labour, but it is necessary to know that the state is setting up and covering some of the extra costs. Right over the entire pandemic has been set up to help the businesses we can, because it's important to make sure that we have jobs at the end of the pandemic. With regard to the SV’s proposal for Document 8 to instruct Innovation Norway to set up a new compensation scheme, we do not support that proposal. The intentions behind the proposal are probably the best from the proposers, but the proposal was presented on the same day as we debated a new compensation scheme for businesses, and in the reply to the Stortinget from the Minister of Industry, as she also briefed the Stortinget on Tuesday 8 December, it was stated that it would not be possible for Innovation Norway to put in place a system to ensure a faster payment than the one we have now adopted. The Minister of Economic Affairs has also informed Stortinget that the Brønnøysund registers will have completed an application portal on 18 January at 0 p.m. 08.00, and that payments could then occur a few days later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2494	We're dealing with two things today. One is the Act on the Temporary Grant Scheme for Enterprises whose costs of the admission quarantine are incurred by the use of foreign labour. The aim is to establish a temporary scheme for grants to undertakings with additional costs as a result of the entry quarantine in connection with the outbreak of the coronary virus and the measures to protect infection in Norway. The grant scheme is to remedy the demanding situation of enterprises and to maintain the output of enterprises that rely on foreign labour, despite strict quarantine rules. The grant is intended to cover the additional costs already incurred by the enterprise and will not cover the full cost. In this context, it would not be reasonable or desirable to impose such extensive requirements as the Workers' Party proposes. The Progress Party will therefore support the position of an overall committee and will not support any of the minority proposals in the case. The second case concerns a proposal from the Swedish wholesalers to rescue healthy companies from bankruptcy pending a compensation scheme. Many enterprises are in a very serious situation, and in particular enterprises in the outdoor, travel and event industries. The Progress Party is sympathetic to the intention behind the proposal to rescue healthy businesses from bankruptcy pending the compensation scheme. The challenge, as the Minister of Industry has responded to the Committee, is that it will be ‘practically impossible to establish a full operational pre-Christmas aid scheme’ through Innovation Norway, as requested by the proposed representative, due to the capacity and operation of Innovation Norway, in addition to the fact that a scheme has to be approved by ESA before it enters into force. The proposal is therefore not suitable to remedy the situation of enterprises in a critical situation, but will help to complicate the compensation schemes already adopted. The Progress Party is pleased that the entire Committee supports the position of asking the government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a grant pot for high unemployment municipalities. The Progress Party also promotes proposals to ask the Government to assess the removal of tax claims and, in the next crisis package, to assess a temporary reduced VAT rate to 15 pst. for serving services until 1 July 2021. So to the representative Pollestad: we are absolutely behind the proposal and hope that the Labour Party will also see the importance of it and support those proposals. This is concrete input from the serving industry that I hope will get a majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2509	It is not my intention today to run a debate that will last far beyond night, and I do not have speaking time for it either. Now we write December 16th, and we have a system that will come into force in a little over a month. When we were last in such a critical situation and did not know what to do, and had to design legislation and arrange compensation arrangements in a very short time, we managed it in two weeks. It doesn't seem like the hurry or the rush to get things done when it's very critical of Norwegian business, it's there anymore. Now we're more tired, ready to take a Christmas holiday. Had it been our political will, we think it would have been quite possible to do this. Openbert, because we've done that before. We have shown this before, and we even have to design the regulatory framework on which this proposal is based to a large extent. So claiming that this is impossible is an impossible statement, simply. We have previously pointed out that the compensation work for the government, especially this cottage, has been too small. Fixed, unavoidable expenditure is only some selected expenditure. The companies that receive this tell us that some people get 0 pst, others get 10 pst., 20 pst. or 30 pst. There are very few who get completely covered in 85 pst. of its actual expenditure. Until then, the design has not been arranged. The government has made some changes to bank demands in order to obtain a loan. That's good. There's a little bit of criticism that while waiting for a compensation scheme that you've been using for six months to complete, it's clear that a lot of companies are in a liquidity crisis, and many of these companies don't have the opportunity to go to the bank because the bank rules are so twisted for the company in that situation. The fact that a lemp on it, that one could just show that one had a surplus from the year before, is good. However, it remains to be seen whether the banks have done the job – if it was an adequate effort. This proposal, which the representatives of the Workers' Party are some of them about, can quickly become important in any case – that the liquidity cycle we have for small and medium-sized enterprises is too poor, and that one needs to use the bank for business, which the State has through Innovation Norway, for these kinds of schemes. Several of the measures we are referring to here are fully feasible. Until it has to be notified in ESA, this is a system that goes fast, especially when it has been more or less notified before. The fact that a country does not have the capacity to implement this is an error. The state has enormous competence to implement this. There are no computer systems in Innovation Norway, there are also errors. The state has many corresponding computer systems, such as: built under the crisis. This is purely political will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2528	Will the representative of Fylkesnes address the proposals that SV is behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2533	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2539	The representative of Torgair Knag Fylkesnes has then taken up the proposals behind the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2544	In addition, No. 1 to the State budget for 2021, the government proposes to grant SEK 480 million. kr to a grant scheme for the partial recovery of the costs of the entry quarantine of foreign workers. As a representative of the Møre and Romesdal industrial and maritime food complex, I am very pleased that such a system is now in place. The shipbuilding and fishing industries are typical cyclical industries that need access to skilled labour from other EEA countries to avoid production stops. In particular, the shipbuilding industry has worn heavily in connection with the coronary apathy. After the financial crisis in 2008 and the fall in the oil price after 2014, the North-West shipyards have undergone a tough transition. High levels of indebtedness and low liquidity have been part of reality in recent years, and then the corona epidemic hit the industry like a fist as the arrows again began to point upwards. As most of the yards in 2020 have had activities related to contracts and orders entered into in previous years, they have received little support through the general compensation scheme. Therefore, a compensation scheme for costs associated with the corona quarantine for foreign labour is a long-term and lovable operation. The scheme is effective as a measure to facilitate a serious economic situation for one of our main export industries. This is also a good and targeted measure for the fishing industry. To date, this industry has been doing relatively well through the Korona crisis, but unfortunately, a sign of international market failure, among other things. for Norwegian cuttlefish. When the high season stands at the door of important fisheries such as screaming and NVG sill, it goes without saying that compensation for quarantine costs for foreign workers is also very important for coastal fishing industries. It is also gratifying that an overall committee is behind the government bill that provides the framework for the compensation scheme. However, we in the Christian People's Party wonder that the Workers' Party wants to instruct the government to include the criterion in the regulation on the scheme that will raise the threshold for companies in being eligible for grants. In this context, we recall that this is a scheme that is intended to compensate also for expenditure already incurred before the scheme enters into force. Setting the criterion behind eligibility is therefore unreasonable, as we see it. Then SV has proposed a legislative amendment affecting both the original and the new general compensation scheme. I don't want to comment on it any more, except to join in the considerations that the representative Ebbesen made around it in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2559	In the beginning, I have to say that it is sad how we have constantly made arrears in supporting the business that is affected by the coronary crisis. When we dealt with the crisis package in Prop. 142 S for 2019-2020 at the beginning of October, the Green Party was the only party that would extend the ordinary business compensation scheme. Now, fortunately, everyone agrees. It may almost remind you of the climate crisis – some realize that the house burns when there is smoke coming from the roof, for others do not sink until the building is properly lit. But enough about it: in the case of the coronary crisis, luckily, there is a cross-political consensus that a broad compensation system must be put in place. However, it should have been completely unnecessary for us to take up the SV's proposal on an emergency mechanism. We, who have run a small business, know that it is not usually just-just to defer costs for several months. Now that many have scraped all the reserves already in the spring, it's even harder. In the food industry, we see every week that popular places have to shut down, and that employees meet an uncertain Christmas. It is reasonable that one of the main arguments against the emergency arrangement is that it would in any case not come into place very much before the ordinary arrangement. We want to support the SV's proposal today. It'll probably just get the money out a few weeks earlier, but all the monks are leaving. We've wasted time, but the compensation that comes is not just too late, it's too bad. From 1 September, the employer’s period of leave was increased from two to ten days, and there was a terrible hour of curtailment. At the end of October the infection flared up again, and many had to permit again at the beginning of November. Paying wages for 10 days without income can be a mercy for many enterprises that are now on the counter, and at the top of which there is an employer's fee and other social costs related to wages and salaries. When I talk to small businesses that have had to close or deputize around the country, this cost stands out as the largest cost they have that is not covered by the compensation scheme. The employer period should not have been extended in September, but we can still repair most of the damage. For this reason, the Green Party is proposing today that a reimbursement scheme be set up to allow enterprises that have had to leave to be reimbursed eight out of ten days of the employer’s period. And with that, I'm taking up our proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2572	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2577	In the summer, Red warned that the government’s quarantine exemption for cheaper labour from high infection was a major risk, unfortunately to no avail. Now we know more about how this exception was made thanks to the revelations of the evening post. The NHO has a kind of direct link to the government, which they used almost to dictate the change in the covid-19 regulation via SMS, so that business owners could get exemptions from the quarantine provisions for foreign workers. The government put farm owners’ earnings ahead of infectious diseases, life and health when they opened up the boundaries of labour imports from countries with a high level of infection, with the exception of quarantine. On a question from TV 2 about Norwegian Industry’s SMS contact with the government, Erna Solberg replied earlier today that the lesson was that you had to be ‘more polite’. I think most of us have a completely different lesson from this case, namely that the sitting government discriminates against its powerful friends in the economic elite, at the expense of the rest of society. Red asked the Control Committee last Friday to start examining what had been revealed. We want answers as to why the government has failed to provide warnings from health authorities, whether there has been similar contact with other lobbyists, what has been done to prevent the spread of infection as a result of quarantine exemptions, and what was the reason for not going in and making adjustments for other industries that are also severely affected by closure. Red supports proposals that ensure Norwegian jobs and that serious, viable businesses do not go bankrupt and will therefore vote in favour of the system of minority proposals by the Committee, but not without a certain bismach. The need for compensation is largely due to the dependence of Norway on imported underpaid labour. This is now being introduced at record speed and makes me wonder what contact has been between the government and employers, if any, this time. I notice that the Prime Minister today agreed that some employers used the exemption they received from the government to act as a non-controller. It's a bit of a grey Christmas greeting to all the unemployed, all the affected industries and municipalities that don't have a direct line to the government and that don't get the crisis measures they need. Red will continue the fight for these groups, because the government obviously has more than enough to handle the lobbyists in Norwegian Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2590	First of all, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that the Storting is dealing with the proposal for a law on the temporary grant scheme for enterprises with expenditure on the entry quarantine by the use of foreign labour so quickly, and on the cooperation we have had with the committee chairman and with the committee otherwise. The Act will provide the overall administrative framework for the scheme proposed in the State budget for 2021, Appendix 1. The outbreak of corona and the measures against infection have posed challenges for large parts of Norwegian business. Many enterprises rely on professionals from abroad and have incurred significant expenditure as a result of the entry quarantine provisions. Businesses have so far made considerable efforts to ensure that the entry quarantine for their employees and contractors is properly and properly carried out. This scheme shall contribute to the economic relief of enterprises from the expenditure incurred by them as a result of the entry quarantine provisions. The scheme shall not provide full cost coverage but cover part of the costs. The details of the scheme will be laid down in regulations in the light of the budget decisions of the Grand Duchy. The government suggests that the scheme lasts until February, but the law also allows for a continuation. In the past, the capital increase adopted this week’s law on the temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises after August 2020. The new compensation scheme in the Brønnøsund Registers will open up to applications on Monday 18 January and several thousand enterprises will be able to receive aid two to three days after that. This new system, this platform we are now creating, could be used in the future if we want to, and there is a need to extend the scheme. Then we want a platform that we can take up and bring down, but it's clear that we're creating a new system, it also needs to be ESA approved. To remedy the situation now, businesses and self-employed people have the opportunity to apply for deferral of payments on taxes and taxes. In addition, banks have great freedom to provide loans under the Loan Guarantee Facility, where the State provides a guarantee of 90 pst. of the loan. The proposal for a representative also provides for the establishment of a temporary grant scheme in Innovation Norway to provide for payments before Christmas. As I have explained, and as it is referred to from the pulpit, it will not be possible to establish a fully operational support scheme before Christmas, even with a decision in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2608	Unemployment is record high. We have again crossed perhaps over 200,000 people out there who are unemployed, who pick up their money by day money, and who face an unsafe future. In this context, the Stortinget addresses a question of a support scheme for maintenance, in fact, by non-resident workers in a situation where they are in quarantine. What adjustments has the government made with regard to this aid scheme versus an aid scheme such as: the Workers' Party proposed support for sales-based losses, such as: had hit the catering industry, the outdoor industry much better, and had helped secure many people into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2615	There are different balances that lie behind the different schemes. The scheme that was to take the widest place, most of the companies, including the catering industry, is primarily the compensation scheme, which we have discussed before, and this is how we are going to discuss again. This scheme, which is the coverage of the costs incurred for employing workers or contractors in quarantine, is as a result of the amended provisions relating to quarantine. I just want to stress that businesses throughout the country have had quite significant expenditures to organise employees, whether they are people living in Norway or people who come from abroad, even before we set up this scheme. But when we then introduced so strict quarantine regulations, it was also natural that the state contributed to some of the costs that businesses have. Here are two schemes that they can take advantage of, either a quarantine hotel or a cost-reimbursement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2622	There is no doubt that there are many competent, skilled skilled workers, for example. in the construction sector, which is currently unemployed, also many in the shipbuilding industry, good welders who are there, who are unemployed, in a non-manageable enterprise. Then we see that the neighbouring company hires foreign labour and receives support from Norwegian authorities to – let's say – maintain the quarantine provisions for these foreign workers. Does the Council of State think that this is a legitimate and good arrangement over time, given the skilled Norwegian trade unionists who are going out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2629	Now, this system is to be put into effect first by February, but it is also possible to extend it. I believe that we have a working life, a business life in Norway that is heavily dependent on foreign labour, foreign tip competence, but I fully agree with the representative that here there is a balance between the costs to be borne by the State and what we must expect them to take responsibility for. It is clear that to the extent that one can take advantage of Norwegian workers — we know that this has been tried, not least in the summer, in view of agriculture, which needed some labour for a period of time — it is of course positive. But there are a number of companies now that depend on having the employees that they like to have for years, the tipping skills they don't get at home, and I think the state should also be involved in supporting the costs they have associated with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2635	Some of what is important in industrial policy and in the crisis management of the Centre Party is that it should be long-term and prudent. In the rather short hearing that the ministry had in a few days, the Ministry of Justice got the funny idea that they were going to send in a audition. For many entrepreneurs, it is possible to organise this in order to benefit from this scheme or to use the quarantined hotel system. In the Ministry of Justice's report, they announced that the Ministry of Health has called for a reduction in the rates of quarantine hotels, and asked the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries to clarify this. Then my question is – when businessmen wonder if they are going to arrange this for themselves, or whether they are going to wait for quarantine rates to be dropped, as HOD openbert has suggested: What are the plans for quarantine rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2642	It's true that there's been a bit of a different kind of consultation. The exact rates of the quarantine hotel are the responsibility of the other person, but it is a balance for an employer if he wants to make use of one or the other scheme. It is clear that for many people the most practical and most economical is to use quarantine hotels, but here they have the opportunity to take care of themselves. The discussion to which the representative refers is a discussion we have had in the government. We have decided that we want two schemes, so that it is up to the employer, or the contracting entity, to choose what they will use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2649	This is part of the management of the situation that is, and to lift us a little bit above it and look into 2021: there are prospects for a vaccine, but business might see the world much blacker. Then there will be a need for different schemes aimed at different industries, which is one of several examples. I would like to ask the Council of State – as a superstructure for what we are discussing now – to say a little about what is the government's assessment of developments in Norwegian business in the first half of 2021, when we already know that we are facing record high unemployment. Maybe we are personally influenced by some optimism, but there are signs that business looks very dark on it. I would like to hear the government's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2654	First of all, I would say that both personally and I also believe in business, fortunately, you are impressed by the good news we get about vaccines. It's different in business. We also have branches that are going well now under the corona, and that are going to go well ahead. We have branches that don't go well. We have branches that got a click quite early, and are going to have the effects of it for a long time. And we have a lot of industries where they see more long-term challenges with this, that they may not have had the immediate consequences, because they had good order books, but now they see that the orders don't come in as they hoped, or in a normal year they had. It's going to be tough. 2021 is going to be tough too many. It's going to be tough for business, if we're going to take a big look at this, because there's still uncertainty about the situation. There is still a world market that has had a doll – and it is also going to affect us in Norway. We have to use this time to rust up so we're ready when the rest of the world is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2661	I refer to the Council's letter of reply, where she writes that if one had introduced the proposal proposed by the SV, that one set up a temporary scheme while waiting for the second compensation scheme, one would receive a place between 6,000 and 25 000 applications. It's an estimate the department has. That means that one acknowledges that there is a great need out there for liquidity, and that if one had introduced this system now, there would actually have come to meet a lot of healthy and viable businesses. Can the Council of State tell us a little about why it does not have a temporary mechanism to ensure the liquidity of companies that have days and weeks to live or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2668	First, I just want to clarify a few things, because it's right as the letter says, that we can expect between 6,000 and 25 000 applications, but it's based on the applications on the old compensation scheme. That estimate has not been taken from a liquidity assessment of these 6000-25000 applications – only to clarify it. But I absolutely recognise the need for liquidity. It's one of the challenges many businesses now have. Innovation Norway does not have automated systems that could have managed this amount with applications. What Innovation Norway usually does is deal with one and one application, and they would not be able to deal with this number of applications. That means that we would have to create an automated system, and that's the automated system we make in the Brønn Island Health Registers. So we hadn't been able to do it any faster than what we get in the Brønn Island Health Registers now. 18 January is the date, and the money comes days after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2675	The state has many automated solutions, so I don't understand why it would be difficult to transfer it to Innovation Norway. But I read from the answer that the opinion of the Council of State was not really to say that this was the expected amount of application on the scheme proposed by the representative. One replied to something completely different. One replied to how many applications one would get on another scheme, which was not the question. It is used as a powerful argument for the whole committee that there are many applications here, which would have been quite impossible to deal with for Innovation Norway. But what the state council here says, is that the number really wasn't about it, it was about something completely different. So one gave apple when the committee asked for pears. I thought I was a little eye-catching. I want to change the focus again, because there's one thing that actually hasn't been mentioned in the debate at all, and it's that the committee is gathering that one should set up a commercial spot for municipalities. Innovation in Norway and the municipalities have too little use in this system. When can Stortinget expect such a commercial spot for the municipalities to be made before Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2684	First of all, the interval between 6,000 and 25,000 is a pretty large interval, and it says something about that we can't go in and estimate this more precisely than that. We have to assume that many of those who know that they would come under the general compensation scheme could also want a credit relief in the meantime, pending it. I am reasonably sure that we had received a high number of applications, but I just wanted to make sure that the representative realized that it was based on those numbers, and not on his own assessment of the credit situation. As far as the money for the municipalities is concerned, I have understood that there is now agreement in the aging process to use – and now I have only read it in the media – 250 million. kroner for money to the municipalities, and then it will be a little up to them how they manage to organize. But I hope that this is the money they can spend to cover expenses that are not covered by other revenues, and that can get started quickly. But 18 January – that is when the big scheme comes into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2691	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2698	The Progress Party has contributed and improved compensation schemes, including: by increasing the degree of compensation from 60 pst. to 70 pst. for September, to 85 p.m. for November and December, from 70 p.m. to 80 pst. for January and February, the deferred tax scheme extended by two months so that the first payment would be 1 April 2021, the scheme of State-guaranteed loans for small and medium-sized enterprises extended for the first half of 2021 and extended their duration to six years. The Progress Party has been in close contact with municipalities, outreach industries and businesses and is closely following developments in order to improve action where necessary. The environment is an important part of cultural provision in Norway, and the nightlife is an important employer, with many young people in particular having their first meeting with the labour market. The outreach industry in Oslo has in practice been banned by outreach bans, and many are now at risk of bankruptcy. The party of progress is concerned about what a wave of bankruptcy in outdoor life will lead to, and unfortunately it is imminent. For this reason, we want the worst affected municipalities to be provided with an economic space to compensate local businesses affected by the pandemic and local infectious diseases. Many business owners have done a great job of saving businesses and jobs through the pandemic, and several have used up equity and saved money to keep the wheels running. Some companies want challenges with, among others: to pay tax claims on which they have been deferred after the pandemic is over. Therefore, one of the measures of the Progress Party will be considered by the government, deleting tax and tax requirements in order to free up capital quickly, and at the same time looking at the possibility of temporarily reducing the VAT rate for service provision. It's to repair the serving companies that are struggling. The Oslo City Council in particular has introduced more stringent measures for the protection of infection than the rest of the country, but it does not show any willingness to support enterprises that are struggling financially because of the local measures. A proposal made by the City Council in Oslo on Wednesday 9 December to establish an emergency allocation of approximately 90 million. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Municipal Council parties, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party voted against. The Progress Party considers this to be very regrettable, because the action would have helped the outreach industry in Oslo considerably. This would also have been done by the two measures which it seems the Labour Party does not support today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2718	It is not primarily the decisions that have been taken that are the main problem. That is what has not been done, which is the main problem. The progress party would like to stand here and boast that they have improved the arrangements. It was the least one could expect, because the arrangements were too bad as they were presented to the Stortinget. But the main problem is that there's no money coming out now, in a liquidity crisis. That is why the proposal from SV has come, and we have discussed it many times. The progress party refers to Oslo. Then I ask: why did not the Progress Party vote for the proposal that the Workers' Party has promoted to have a turnover-based compensation scheme based on local decisions? There is a difference between running a restaurant in Oslo versus at home in Skien. So it's a game for the gallery, what the Progress Party is doing. Why did they not vote in favour of the proposal we tabled? Someone's got to be surprised. It was a perfectly legitimate proposal to cover sales losses for smaller enterprises. It would have helped the food industry, the outdoors and the restaurants in Oslo and elsewhere that are covered by local infectious diseases control measures. It had the Monnet, instead of the Progress Party and the government parties are doing it. It is also my response to the Central Party, which did not vote for it, but is now more concerned with reducing VAT. Will reduced VAT be an effective measure? No, it won't, in our opinion, and that's why we don't vote for it either. We think it's wrong. It is better to support non-activity enterprises than enterprises with high activity or relatively high activity. That's why we vote the way we do it. We are not voting in favour of the VAT proposal. We had a proposal that had saved the businesses that you are currently engaged in, through the proposal on VAT reduction, but it was not supported, unfortunately. The same applies to the proposal, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess the deletion of tax claims.’ For whom? Is it for everyone, or is it only for those who are hit? I ask questions about whether this is a new tax and tax balance between the Progress Party, the Centre Party and SV. It's completely unspecifical who it's directed at. Is it for enterprises that are part of the compensation scheme and that are struggling and in the process of cancelling employees, or can God and everyone apply for the scheme? That's the last thing you have to believe. It would have been okay to clarify some of that. Finally, about grants for quarantine for non-resident workers: we're for it, but we're very careful with the scheme. We are afraid that through the scheme we are going to support non-resident workers in a situation where skilled Norwegian skilled workers are available, who are not getting a job because they are displaced by another scheme maintained by the state. Therefore, we must be careful, and therefore we will not extend the time horizon of that arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2731	I also noticed the need for the Progress Party to boast of itself. We all know that when one has a strong need to boast of himself, it's because no one else is doing it. It is strange to see the decision of the Advance Party now, in perspective – that is, the decision they made in January of this year, when they went out of government – because they have largely been a support wheel for the government in their various types of initiative. Here they had the full potential to support a proposal that would just support the companies that the Progress Party wants to save. They could have supported the SV's proposals that it was sales that would be responsible, not these small and get the costs that this is about. They could have been on proposals that would ensure a much longer life span for this. They could even have been with us today — too late, but just in time to save companies that are in serious liquidity crisis. They have not chosen to do so, but they could have done so in the middle of a pandemic. What surprises me here is how little the Progress Party itself takes initiative as an opposition party. They are still more prominent as a government support wheel, and are opposition party only in the name, not in the data. Finally, we both support the two loose proposals that have been put on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2742	I would like to make some comments to the representative of Aasland, who had opened the magazine well today and went for ‘family’, and it went a little fast in every direction, seemed that. First of all, let me take this as the representative of Aasland says about the law on temporary redundancy, because here one is now trying to grade a little bit from the decision we are going to make today. I do not know if the Workgroup intends to click the button a little more carefully when they are correct, or what they intend to do. The truth is that all the parties are behind this in the setting, and that's exactly the same scheme we're behind. So I believe that the representative of Aasland is very sore that a proposal was not supported earlier on about a support scheme, which I think had the main problem that it was the cause of the trade, i.e. the subjective relationship – that it was the local restrictions on the protection of infection that should be considered. We believe in proposals based on objective criteria, i.e. if one looks at the field, on unemployment, and if one looks at enterprises, on sales cases, etc. That's the central party's approach to this. We believe more in proposals that are ahead of time than in proposals that are in the back in time, and I'm sure we'll separate some layers here as well. Where the Labour Party takes care of the proposal that a non-multiple number for the last time, we see that here it is possible to have a new alliance, that we can get rid of it, that this government is assessing the removal of tax claims. I have no doubt that very many companies will have major problems when deferred tax claims are to be paid, so asking the government to evaluate it, I think it's quite natural for an opposition party to wish, and it does the Center Party. The same applies when you are about to start the service industry again. Yes, one would like to give support, but the best thing to do is to make sure – when the wheels start rolling again – that those who run restaurants, bars, etc. are left with a little more of the sales in their own pockets. That's what we're doing, along with the Progress Party, and here's the Labour Party election: they can give a number for that proposal, or they can't give a number for that proposal. The central part of the game is always looking straight ahead. It is also the case that when we make crisis packages, we have to compromise across parties, and that is not exactly what we have been thinking. But we think that expressing a will and solving different options is always positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2757	I do not intend to contribute to the extension of the debate, but I would like to make a comment on one of the solutions proposed by the Labour Party, proposal No. 8, after I understand. It is, of course, up to the Storting itself to consider which proposals are to be promoted and whether there is a possibility of turning it into a transmission proposal. In any case, I want the Stortinget to know that what we are now working on in the Brønnøsund Registers is a new platform. In contrast to the old system we had in the tax system, we are now creating a new, robust solution in the Brønn Island Health Registers, where the intention is that we can use that solution in the future, that is, beyond February if necessary, and the government and the Storting chooses it. Of course, if we make big changes or make other arrangements, they need to be ESA approved. We know that we need to make some changes to the system we're now adding up to, among other things. because the reference month of the year before can no longer be used after February. There is no point in measuring turnover figures based on the 2019 turnover, when we have passed March. Because then we shut down, and it's bad results to point to. Now we're working in the department on how, if we're going to continue the scheme, we can get into a system that works even after February 2021. It's up to the Workers' Party what they choose to do with the proposal, but they should at least know that the system we're working on now is supposed to be robust, so that it can be taken up and down and continue beyond February.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2770	To start with the last Council of State said, about the scheme that is now being established under the Brønnøysund Registers as a permanent scheme – as long as the pandemic is there, and certainly also afterwards, so that it can manage a restart of payments to business – I am pleased with it and can send the solution proposal we have promoted today, proposal No. Eight. The time we've been in now shows that we have to have a business pay-out system that's up and running at the time one pushes the infectious-protection button or tramps on the brake somehow. So a little bit to the chairman of the committee. It's not often we have contradictions in this room, but once we have it, it's okay to spend some time on it. First of all, of course, we are behind the position on this matter with grants for quarantine, but as I said in my post, we are very careful with the scheme, because we see clearly that it can have some unintended effects that will be very unfortunate for Norwegian workers. We want to be clear on that, and I underlined that, and therefore we are not motivated to extend the arrangement beyond what is contained in the text of the law. It is, of course, up to the government by regulation to assess it, but at the same time I said very clearly that I think the government should be careful to extend a scheme if it is such that the scheme replaces Norwegian, skilled workers out there. I think that is also the recommendation from the Stortinget that this must be the case. With regard to taxes and charges, I do not understand why the Centre Party is as modest as they are in the proposals, as they promote them, with ‘be sure to assess the government’. Why not try to establish a consistent approach by saying that tax requirements are removed, or go directly on and say that VAT should be low until 1 July, instead of having a long round of investigations into it. One has to know what one will, at exactly those points. The working party knows that. We do not want to comply with the deletion of tax claims, because we believe it is not very precise to the companies that are now affected. Nor do we now want to say that we want a low rate of VAT until 1 July 2021, because we think we need to spend the money and the facilities on other measures to help companies that are struggling, and where workers are at risk of being cancelled or losing their job because the activity is completely gone. These are the clear priorities of the Workers' Party in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2786	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2798	Before voting, the President will inform the representatives of the following: When a representative makes a rare announcement that he has voted incorrectly or was too late to press the voting button, this is sometimes fixed after the meeting to save time. In such a case yesterday during voting, such a creation would reverse the majority of voting. The President will therefore state that when such errors are reported, they will have to be corrected at the meeting — either by re-voting the vote or by correcting the vote by the individual. The President will therefore advise the representatives to follow closely during voting, and mobile phones can well be put away for the short time the voting lasts. Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2816	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from the Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Audun Lighthouse on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Norfund withdraws its investments from commercially driven school chains.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and draw up an action plan on how Norway can achieve the objective of increasing annual climate funding to 65 billion. crowns.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2852	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the new budgetary structure of the defence budget for 2021 and to present the evaluation in the revised national budget for 2022.’ The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e2869	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reverse the proposed conversion of the chapter structure of the defence budget.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e5857	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e5879	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e5898	The Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e6778	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 2, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to support the proposal of South Africa and India for temporary derogations from the patent provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in order to combat covid19. [[Weiver from particular commissions of the TRIPS agreement for the prevention, containment and treatment of COVID-19]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e6804	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before the Storting, which provides a broader and better factual basis for an informed decision on the relaxation of patent rights in relation to vaccines and medical devices for the suppression of covid-19, as well as for possible initiatives such as forced licensing and how this can be used as measures under a global pandemic to ensure fair access for the world’s countries to the vaccine and medicinal products.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e6830	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e7884	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9175	A total of 43 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-21, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 22, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 23-27, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 28 and 32, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 29–31 and 37 from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 33-36 and 38, from Rigmor Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 39 to 42, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 43, from Elise Björnebeck-Waagen on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30 and 31, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reverse the cuts in support of children’s glasses.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that students who receive loans or scholarships from the Loan Fund and experience loss of income as a result of the covid-19 pandemic can also receive daily benefits under § 4-6, and ask the government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for this in 2021.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9226	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a maximum period of time for receipt of redundancy benefits as an applicant for employment until 31 December 2021.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9243	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the scheme of permanent and temporary wage subsidies is granted to 10000 more persons in 2021.» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9260	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24 and 27, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all the municipalities of the country adopt a full-time culture and to establish a state financial grant scheme for full-time and part-time projects.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the National Public Health Association can receive grants under the heading of the State budget. 352.70, in line with other user and related organisations, for their participation and peer work for dentures.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9285	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25 and 26, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that any enterprise and participant in the action will receive a sustained follow-up to the level of follow-up established by the HELT MED project and return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner on its implementation’. [[VTO]] Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative in a pilot project entitled to work on a permanent basis for persons under 30 years of age, e.g. in the form of a pilot project in one state, with a target of 100 pst. job guarantee for people with developmental disabilities after leaving school.» The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9309	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to strengthen the right to full-time employment in the Environmental Protection Act by requiring that the employer be required to assume his/her need for part-time employment.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9326	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the maximum time period for receipt of redundancy benefits as a jobseeker until 1 July 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9345	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–21, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Grand Council requests the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy to come back as soon as possible with the evaluation of the proposal to establish a Nav Ombudsman.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Government is asking the government to invest significantly more in several action areas designated for work-preparation training [[AFT]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for the necessary measures to ensure that subsidies for labour market measures are used for the purpose.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Nav collects documentation from the action companies on the basis of which the grants to VTA and AFT are verified for the purpose and that the measure regulation is complied with.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that young people with disabilities and young people are given priority in the investment in new areas of action.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests the return of an approval system for car washes by extending the existing approval system for cleaning establishments. The system should be managed by the Labour Inspectorate.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the supervision of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority is more effective by increasing the use of infringement fees.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary changes to the regulation on management, organisation and participation which ensure that specific assessment requirements and risk mitigation measures are imposed on occupational injuries when employers use hired and foreign workers, including language competence and language training assessment requirements.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that all injured parties who are and are affected by the Alpha bankruptcy are covered by the Occupational Insurers Act, regardless of whether the insurance has been taken out directly from Denmark.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal to amend the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance, in order to ensure that the injured party is covered by bankruptcy in an insurance company.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify that the Occupational Injury Regulation 220 § 1, point H, point 2 shall apply equally to all occupational groups defined as having social-critical work and regularly exposed to a risk of infection at work.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks that the organisations that have been exempted from paying the employer’s share of the pension fund should not receive any further increase in the pension contribution in 2021.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to remove the introduced withdrawal period under the AAP scheme and to ensure that persons who have not finished leaving the Nav and/or Health Service before the end of the period during which they may receive benefits for redundancy are entitled to an extension.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the car-suppression scheme in order to identify whether it contributes adequately to the participation of people with disabilities in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of the changes in the car welfare system, which means that support for social security car group 1 can no longer be obtained in order to carry out day-to-day functions, contributes to further isolation and solitude among disabled persons.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend until 1 July 2021 the temporary changes in the legislation on day-to-day pay, as well as the income insurance schemes for apprentices and self-employed persons adopted in March.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government in new legislation on the combination of education and daily allowances to facilitate the participation in education without losing daily allowances of 25 years of age who have not completed VGO or primary school.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to continue and maintain the current permitting scheme with a maximum of 52 weeks within 18 months to receive the daily allowance in the fishing industry.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government of a new Universal Design Action Plan, notified in 2021, to set a deadline for Norway to be universally designed by 2035.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Nav changes its workplace organisation guarantee practice for disabled persons, so that written organisation guarantee is available at the latest on completion of work.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a system of health care in the form of a lifelong certificate for persons with lifelong disabilities.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9467	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to bring its own case to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible, with a compilation and discussion of cross-cutting actions within the Nav and the specialist health service being practised today in order to reduce the increase in the number of young people. In particular, the unique interaction model for outside young people needs to be reviewed. [[Saltdal model]] This model involves a follow-up of 24/7 with a parallel between work and health and a focus on youth mastering and opportunities.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9477	President! SV also has alert support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9482	The Labour Party shall vote in favour of this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9488	Okay! Then it is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party that have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9500	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 to 36, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose measures for parents of home-dwelling disabled people over 18 years of age who, for infectious reasons, must be at home during the day during the pandemic.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the amount be extended until 1 July 2021 for a maximum period for the receipt of daily allowances. Persons who have fallen out of the scheme as a result of the government’s decision not to extend the maximum time period for the receipt of daily allowances beyond 1 November 2020 shall be able to resume the receipt of daily allowances from 1 January 2021.’;» Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The government requests the reduction of the income requirement for entitlement to daily allowances to 0,75 G for new cases from 1 January to 1 July 2021.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security which require the reintroduction of the holiday supplement scheme for the beneficiaries of the day-to-day allowance.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9533	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government will request the establishment of a new temporary scheme as soon as possible to ensure the income of third-country professionals corresponding to the daily allowance.’;» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9543	President! That's wrong. The Labour Party shall vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9548	That is when the Greens and the Reds have announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9560	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is calling for measures to be taken by the government to ensure compliance with the rules on the protection of workers’ immigration.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9577	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals to ensure, until further notice, that those who have a reduced working time have the possibility of working more regularly do not lose the right to a daily allowance.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9595	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a package of measures for the protection of income, development of skills and employment of the long-term unemployed.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9614	President! I had to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9619	Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9631	There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to review legislation and rates on social assistance, living quarters and other needs-tested benefits and to return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2021, with proposals to ensure that beneficiaries have a decent standard of living and that the amounts paid are increasing’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9646	There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Law on Social Security, which introduces holiday allowances for those who have been unemployed, including those who have received daily allowances for less than 8 weeks in 2020.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e9663	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to review the system of spectacle support for children and to return to the revised national budget with a system to protect families with large costs of glasses for children’.» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e13121	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15338	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 3-6, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 8, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party During the debate, proposal No. 8 converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the payment solution provided for in the Brønnøsund Registers can be used without delay to make payments of aid at a later stage during the pandemic, should there be a need to reintroduce a business compensation scheme.’; The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a mechanism to refund 8 of the 10 days of the employer’s period of leave, initially for leave started between 1 September 2020 and 1 March 2021.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15380	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘I In Law 17 April 2020, No. 23 on the temporary grant scheme for large-scale undertakings in difficulty is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: The financial contribution scheme shall apply for the calendar months March, April and May as well as December 2020 and January and February 2021. Section 7 is replaced by the following: Section 7. Grant Authority and Board of Appeal Innovation Norway is the grant authority under the law. The Ministry of Industry is the Board of Appeal. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the immediate implementation of a temporary grant scheme for undertakings with a high loss of income as a result of the coronary crisis and otherwise healthy operation. The scheme is established under the auspices of Innovation Norway, which is responsible for a number of other loan and grant schemes and is present throughout the country.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15433	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government immediately asks the Government to return to the United Kingdom with a proposal to rescale the framework for Innovation Norway’s loan and guarantee schemes in line with the needs of industry for support due to the anti-infective measures and the pandemic.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15450	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought back in which an assessment of how the commercial instrument can be used to ensure liquidity in times of crisis’.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15468	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess, in the next crisis package, a temporary reduced VAT rate to 15 pst. for serving services until 1 July 2021.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15485	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to assess the deletion of tax claims.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15510	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15541	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: the second paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: The grant scheme concerns the period from 1 November 2020 to 30 April 2021. The Ministry may, by regulation, extend the duration of the scheme.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15569	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to make provision for conditions under which aided enterprises are not able to give up during the period during which the enterprise receives aid. Furthermore, there shall be no possibility of repurchasing a share, paying dividends or bonuses to senior executives, or increasing management or management fees during the period during which the entity receives support or in 2021. Finally, the undertaking shall be required not to have a parent company in third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions and the Tax DG’s list of low tax countries.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15749	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15759	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-16.ana.ud309e15774	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? This does not seem to be the case – and the meeting has been cancelled.
