ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e78	The called alternate for Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, is now taking the seat. The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e88	I will be presented with a proposal for a representative to carry out an evaluation of the court administration, and I do so on behalf of the representatives Emilie Enger Mehl, Marit Arnstad, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e93	The representative, Cecilie Myrseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e98	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Aasland, Åsunn Lyngedal and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the rental of breeding permits for self-production in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e103	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e146	I take the floor on case No. 1 and therefore mention the legislative proposal. On an incubation had what was supposed to be the second sentence of proposal No. 9, then the Storting treated Innst. 296 L for 2019-2020, on the Biotechnology Act, last week. This legal note corrects this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e151	That is when the proposal for a legislative remark is taken up. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e169	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e176	The Social Democrats and former president of the United States Franklin Delano Roosevelt said that the nation that is ruining its land is ruining itself. It was very far-sightedly said in the mid-1930s, and it applies to the greater part of the day as well. Soil protection is one of the areas of society that has actually had a positive development in Norway in recent years, and it is due, inter alia, to: a job shared by the Business Committee during the previous ageing period to set an ambitious soil protection objective. It's the same topic that we're going to deal with today. By setting a clear target and following up on strategies, we have together succeeded in bringing down the re-disposal of food soil. Soil protection is a practical policy for our common security. The corona pandemic has shown that if we are to have security in common, we must also have common national policies, and that is why soil protection policy in all its weights must be determined by the Storing and carried out by the government. Soil protection is also a practical policy to reduce climate emissions, for soils and the growth of plants, is actually the truly well-functioning and well-known carbon capture and storage technology, and there are large amounts of carbon stored in good food soils. Therefore, soil protection is also a very cost-effective way of reducing climate emissions. For the Workers' Party, we believe it is natural to follow up the job done by Stortinget in the previous period, by continuing to work for less re-disposal of food. Just as we set clear targets for fewer accidents in traffic and gradually get better control of the traffic scene, we have to keep working to make things better, and for the accidents to go down, and we have to keep working for less re-disposal of food. It's the same way known athletes are constantly improving their performance – you don't sit down and say you're satisfied with where you're coming from, you go ahead and work forward. That's why today we are promoting a proposal to tighten up and make the goal even more ambitious, because it's only 3 pst. of the land area in Norway, which is land and there is only one third left suitable for the cultivation of cereals. In addition, this is a good day because there will be proposals to set a target to avoid re-disposal of arable land. It is also an important part of our future preparedness, while agriculture itself also needs to redispatch less. On this basis, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e193	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e198	There will certainly be many similar posts from the pulpit here today, because we all believe that the protection of cultivated land is very important. It's just 3 pst. of the surface of Norway which has grown land, and only 1 pst. suitable for food grain. This is very important to remember: it's quite vulnerable when we have so little space available. We see that the focus on soil protection has taken a considerable interest, and the re-disposal is now less than 4000 jobs a year. By comparison, the average re-disposals of 7600 decaries in the period 2004–2013 and of 11400 decaries in the period 1994–2003 were. We see that setting goals works. Soil protection is important for the maintenance of food production and stronger priorities may be needed as regards what can defend redisposals. Then we have to admit that it is difficult to avoid redisposals, for example. to carry out transport projects. In Melhu's municipality, where I'm from, E6 is to be built through the countryside. Since the settlement is in the valley, where the cultivated land is also, it has been necessary to build down some of the cultivated land. Regulations cut some crosses, both to protect rivers and to reduce cultivated land, in order to implement these types of projects in a nominal way, so as to minimise the degradation of cultivated land. The share of downgrading for transportation purposes was 37 p.m. in 2019, so there is a large proportion going on transport projects. When it is built down, it is also important to facilitate new cultivation, and in 2019 authorisations for new cultivation of 27 500 deer were granted, which is a new record. As far as the proposal is concerned, we support the intention, but now the strategy has been revised recently, so we will have to come back to an update of the strategy if re-disposal does not go down further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e213	There has been a strong consensus that we should reduce the degradation of cultivated land in Norway. When we decided that we would be able to get down to 4 pst., there were many who were skeptical about that. Now we've managed to achieve that goal, and that's good. Then it might be time to put a little foot in the ground and see what kind of opportunities we have to not go in and make it difficult, among other things. to obtain new transport projects, and not least to make it difficult for agriculture itself to exploit the property it owns, in the best possible way and in the most efficient way possible. A part of the decline that is taking place, a large part of it, is happening through agriculture itself, but it is also to make the operation more efficient and make it better to operate the farm they have. So when you're going to propose new goals now, it's okay to put a foot in the ground and not just promote proposals that are symbol politics – it gets too stupid. The consensus is, as I said, great, but I was quite impressed by the Sandtrøen representative, who so well referred to President Roosevelt. In fact, Roosevelt had a good point, and it also had the Sand Throat, it's just so bad that the Sand Throat and the Workers' Party didn't live up to Roosevelt's words when they even put in government, because then, in fact, the degradation of food soil two, up to three, times as big as it is today. So we're going to think that the Sandtrøen and the Workers' Party are not going to be in government again, because then it's going to increase the decline rate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e220	The debate on soil protection and our food preparedness is so important that I did not think we should prejudge the debate with the kind of game of numbers that some people are using. The reality of the work on soil protection is that it's a long-term work that happens over time. The first halving target was seen under the Bondevik II government. Then there was a redispatch of about 12,000 pieces, and there was a target of coming down to 6,000 pieces. It took a long time. There were a lot of things and a lot of stops to turn around. When one was down to 6,000 dean, the government decided to pass on a total of 6,000 dean. The Storting took responsibility and suggested a measurement of 4000 dean. We've now reached that point. That's important, and for the Center Party, there's a partial goal on the road towards a zero vision. Taking care of the crop is also taking care of an eternal resource. It's strengthening our preparedness, and unfortunately it's the best food soil that's being built up first. What is new in one of our proposals is that, in addition to the goal of soil protection, we want a target for arable land, and we want to address the problem associated with agriculture's own reduction of cultivated land. It's a bit odd, because the majority write that 'the claim that the government of Solberg has shown a reluctance to tightened soil protection is thus incorrect'. After all, there is something that you have to defend yourself against claims that you have never made – no one has seen that claim. So I'll link some comments to SV's proposal. I thought it was very nice that SV had great ambitions and wanted to go down to 1000 dekar. In practice, it means that SV must have scraped the idea of nodality, on which they have traditionally been very concerned, that even SV opens up for more scattered bustet – that we can use the car on the road where there is good space, that people can take a bit of a break. In the past, we experienced an SV that was very focused on developing as much space as possible around the centers that are today, where the food soil is, and where the best food soil is located, so I take this as a new course from SV's side. The goal of the centre party with the soil protection is a zero vision. Unfortunately, the plural has a zero vision for soil protection and wants to pass on the number that is today. I'm taking up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e237	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e242	I thank the representative Pollestad for the good advertising of SV's policy. We're talking about Mother Earth here today. It's not a bad expression – Mother Earth. The earth is kind of hungry with seeds. It nourishes the plants that feed grain and fruit, which ultimately feed us. Food land is a scarce and vital national resource, and agricultural policy must ensure that the food soil is well established. It must be handled with respect and caution. It shall be managed from a thousand-year perspective. It's important that we have for ourselves. We're not nice with Norwegian-grown land today. We're getting better, but we're still not nice. We dwell on it in terms of both depletion – the soil is degraded by organic materials disappearing year after year, and it erodes, blows and drains earth on the sea every year – and that we build a lot of food soil. So far, there have been thousands of targets this year, and we have to put an end to this. We have to get a zero vision and take strong action as soon as possible. SV wants an up-to-date soil protection strategy with a tough target. We are not interested in having some kind of unwarranted competition to be the best in the class. That's not why we've set a target of 1,000 dean for re-disposal. We think there's a reason for that. In ten years we have managed to redispatch much less. We've come down to about 3,800 deches less in ten years. So if we keep doing this and take a little bit more of a grip, we're going to get down to 1,000 goals. Something worse than that we shouldn't be. We believe that this should be possible. It has been mentioned that very little of this arable land is suitable for grain production. We're talking about 1.7 pst. of the area of the climate zone suitable for the production of cereals. Just think about fruit and green. I now live in green Lier. There's vegetable soil, there's garden soil, but don't sail there, we can keep our fingers off the barrel. Now one of our agencies, the State Road Service, has come up with an alternative – one would not think it was possible – where perhaps 400 targets are sacrificed for a motorway across Lier, the Huseby option. I ask the Council of State, the Minister of Agriculture, to talk to the Minister of Transport about this, because it is simply not acceptable. It's unheard of, and I hope it never comes true. It is sometimes claimed that substitute soil should be the key, but it is often worse soil than the one being developed. So a small explanation of vote: we will support the Greens' proposal No. 6, but cannot without further support No. 7th@item: inlistbox I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e259	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e264	In 2014, the Left launched a proposal in Stortinget that would lead to a soil protection strategy, as we know today. It set ambitious targets and gave the government a clear order, by 2020, the re-disposal of cultivated land would be less than 4000 jobs. Now we've reached the goal. The re-disposal was 3700 dean in 2019 and 4 000 and 3 600 respectively in 2017 and 2018. In comparison, the average annual re-disposal rate was 7600 decaries in the period 2004–2013 and 11400 decaries in the period 1994–2003. It shows that soil protection policy is working. We're reducing re-disposal, and I think that's great. The reduction of agricultural land is a direct threat to preparedness, food security, climate and biodiversity. Only 3 pst. of the land area of Norway is cultivated land, and there is significant new cultivation every year in Norway. It may be good, but replacing lost food is not possible, because we have grown the best already. Innovation will have to take place on less suitable areas with lower production potential, and it also has its challenges. I will commend the Centre Party for putting soil protection on the agenda of this proposal, because soil protection is important. The left has been a driver of increased soil protection as long as we can remember, and we want to further intensify soil protection targets. The opposition must have come to the conclusion that the Left promoted the proposal that laid the foundation for today's soil protection objectives, and we are on the barricades for soil protection centrally and locally, often together with the Centre Party. This is one of the few things where we can actually agree on nature. Then it becomes a little strange when the Center Party and the Workers' Party write in their comments that the government has shown a reluctance to tighten up the soil protection targets, too much has happened since 2014–2015. The government that was sitting then is also not the one that is now sitting. I thought the opposition had brought it. In any case, the Left will continue to work for ever-increasing soil protection, both nationally and locally, because we believe that it is important for the climate and that it is important for biodiversity. For a degradation of the soil that secures our food, is a direct threat to preparedness and food security. Then I'm a little bit unsure whether there have been so many social democrats in the United States, and at least not Franklin D. Roosevelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e276	Such an overall nutrition committee sees it, soil protection is very important. It is about food security and Norway’s ability to produce food on its own Norwegian resources at all times. So, soil protection has been given new timeliness in relation to the ongoing coronary apathy. We have seen that modern societies are also vulnerable when unforeseen events affect the ability of food production worldwide at the same time. Soil protection is essential for the common preparedness by preserving the resource base for food production. Over the seven years, the government of Solberg has been responsible for agricultural policy, both as a minority and as a majority government, and there has been great progress in the field of soil protection in Norway. The latest up-to-date figures show that the re-disposal of cultivated soil was about 3,700 deches in 2019. This will enable us to achieve the target of the revised soil protection strategy for the maximum re-disposal of 4000 soil targets by 2020 with good margins. There is broad cross-political agreement between all parties in the Committee that it is joyous. We in the Christian People's Party believe, like our government partners, that it is appropriate to update the soil protection strategy at regular intervals. Nevertheless, this is something that the government has to assess in a year's time when the final figures from the reference year 2020 are available. That is when the current soil protection strategy has literally expired, and there is time for further consideration of possible new and reinforced soil protection targets for cultivated land and perhaps also arable land. We are therefore pleased that the Minister of Agriculture and Food, in his letter to the Business Committee dated 20 March of this year, announced such a review, and that the Government will then come back to the Stortinge with new assessments and any proposals. Nevertheless, we believe that thorough assessments and impact assessments should be carried out before any new and reinforced soil protection targets are set. This will involve very high priority both between different social sectors and between different geographical regions in Norway. For example, the conversion of cultivated land into agriculture and transport already accounts for half of all reallocations within the annual target of 4000 jobs. It fully refers to how tough the priorities would be if the proposal of the Centre Party to halve the target figure had been adopted today without prior impact assessments. It is enough to mention that the current national transport plan contains many pre-regulated development projects based on the current target of 4000 deches, which were then most likely to be sent on a new desert migration with new regulatory processes at the next roll-out of the NTP in spring 2021 in order to meet the requirement for an enhanced soil protection target. The same applies to agreed municipal plans with completed, but not launched, development projects. On this basis, in the Christian People's Party, we will not vote in favour of the proposals for a reinforced soil protection that is being promoted today. However, when the final figures for the reference year 2020 are available, we welcome the assessment that the government will carry out in the spring of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e289	The food soil is among the most important prerequisites for human civilization, but it is a non-renewable resource. If we build it down, we don't get it back. Therefore, those who come after us will increasingly be left to compete for food on the world market. That struggle can be much tougher in a future where climate change, population growth and weathering of food soils weaken food security worldwide. The expansion pressure is often the strongest where the soil is best, so when urban areas and roads continue to eat new land, it is often the very best remaining earth that is affected. Increased reforestation cannot compensate for degraded areas, inter alia: because new cultivation will most often come in more marginal areas. Just 1 pst. of our country is suitable for growing grain. At the same time, the grain represents more than a quarter of our entire energy intake and is therefore the most important food in Norwegian diet. The small area that is left of Norwegian grain soil becomes crucial for the food safety of our children. The very view of soil protection is perhaps the most important reason why the Centre Party – perhaps a little surprising to some – is the party with which the Green Party often cooperates in local policy, and we fully agree with the intention of the proposal of the Centre Party. The Greens believe that soil protection is a national issue. That is why in 2017 we promoted a proposal at Stortinget on national protection of the food soil. In spite of all the beautiful words about the food soil that I heard at the time in the hall here, it was muffled by a broad mass. Since then little has happened. I hear many beautiful words today too, but we are trying again and promoting two of the proposals today. We ask the government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on soil, which provide significantly more stringent protection for food soils. We also ask the government to ensure that exemptions from the protection of cultivated and arable land can only be granted by a national planning authority. We are also voting in favour of the SV's proposal to set a new soil protection target for the maximum redisposal of 1000 decarious land per year. We are voting in favour of the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV to present a new soil protection strategy with measures to achieve the new soil protection objective and to set a target for the re-disposal of arable land. With that, I take up the suggestions I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e306	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e311	Taking care of our food soil is extremely important. I think it's a very central part of our administrative responsibility. It is important for Norway, it is important for Europe, and it is important for the whole world. Producing enough and safe food for one's own population is one of the most important and fundamental tasks in any society. Food land is the main resource and capital of agriculture. The food earth is our gold. We have less than 3 pst. grown land here in the country, and it goes without saying that then we have to take good care of it. Otherwise, we cut off the branch on which our agriculture sits. I have had a great commitment to soil protection ever since I was rapporteur, and I still have it. This applies to local politicians, state politicians and national politicians. That is why I am pleased that this government has taken clear steps to redispatch less food soil than has been done in the past. The figures for 2017, 2018 and the preliminary figures for 2019 show that we are expected to reach the target of less than 4000 decaries of restocked cultivated land for the third consecutive year. In 2009, more than twice as much was redispatched, over 8 000 decaves of food soil. This shows that politics works. It shows that it seems to set clear targets and give clear leads. This is not something we succeed at once for all. It requires constant attention and political will, both at local, regional and national authorities. The majority considered the first national soil protection strategy for the government in December 2015 and set a target to reduce the annual re-disposal of cultivated land to less than 4000 deches. In 2018, the government updated the soil protection strategy and the soil protection target of a maximum of 4000 dekar was continued. The objective shall be achieved by 2020. We need to evaluate the soil protection target and the results achieved in 2021, when we see the final reporting for the entire period. It's only then that we can assess whether we should set ourselves a new and more ambitious goal. In that case, the government will come back to Stortinget with new assessments and proposals. This is an important matter for us now, but not least for future generations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e331	The representative André N. Skjelstad wondered if the opposition had brought new parties into what was originally a Right Party government. On the farm I have to say that unfortunately it is not so easy to see it. There were some who hoped that there would be a new course. It describes the matter we have for treatment today, because here it could have been a very nice opportunity – as in the previous period of ageing – to set a new ambitious goal that took us further in the good direction we have had in recent years. Unfortunately, we experience that the Christian People's Party and the Left are voting against proposals that could have strengthened soil protection. Then we in Stortinget need to know that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has said that food and agriculture policy should be firm, and that the Christian People's Party must remain silent and accept what was the original policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e338	I understand that the representative Sandtrøen has a great need for this, because if he goes back to 2013, he will see that there was no setting soil protection targets by the government of which his party was part. For this government, it's more important to do something than talk about it, and this government can point to results in the decline of cultivated land. In fact, I think the representative Sandtrøen should sweep at his own door before he starts accusing others of anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e347	This representative was elected at Stortinget in 2017 and at least intends to contribute to the improvement of soil protection in the future. That is why we are here today and are making proposals to improve preparedness in Norway. Unfortunately, the fact that the Christian People's Party has been defeated in government is not a one-off case. When we were going to deal with proposals for better self-sufficiency and preparedness under the Corona situation, Stortinget took two unanimous decisions that unfortunately have never been followed up afterwards. One was about to increase the production of plants, among other things. Potatoes in the spring, but then it had to be traded quickly. The second was to ensure sufficient labour force with both sides of industry, and the employee side was left out. Firstly, it is unheard of that a government does not follow the decision of the Storting, but again we see that agricultural interests are being overrun. How can it be internal to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e356	I want to take the work situation first: I hope that the Sandtrøen representative has followed up on what has been done about the working situation in agriculture and agriculture during the Korona crisis in order to take care of the agricultural situation. I also hope that the representative Sandtrøen has read the agricultural agreement that we have concluded unanimously with the parties. That also means that potato cultivation has been a priority in that settlement, precisely because one has to make it possible to use the areas that one has at its disposal: where it is best to produce cereals, we have to produce cereals. Where it's best to grow vegetables, we're going to grow vegetables, and potatoes are part of it. The channelling is clear in that settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e363	It's true that potatoes are coming to the next year, but if we get hungry in the autumn and in winter, it doesn't help much that someone starts putting potatoes in the spring of 2021. That's why it's the practical and ground-based relationships that we in the Workers' Party are most concerned about. Now the Christian People's Party feels that it is down to its most important core issues in the Storting through the Advance Party. Then it is important to hear from the Council of State, which is also one of the leaders of the Christian People's Party, whether we can now see a Christian People's Party that actually works offensively for agricultural matters and frees itself from the Party of Advancement, or whether the Christian People's Party should still accept being a hostage to the agricultural policy of the Party of Advancement, when we are also voting on other important core areas of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e370	I, as the Council of State and the Government, am fully aware that we are a minority government. I want to refer to the seven years that have gone by, where the actual figures for soil protection have fallen with the Progress Party in government. So I hope that the representative Sandtrøen understands that the Progress Party is also concerned with soil protection, as I read both their program and their practical policy. It's more than words, it's also action, also from the Progress Party. We all know that cultivated land is one of the most important gold we have, and I think there is quite a consensus in this room about caring for the cultivated land. We are committed to acting and evaluating to establish a new strategy to achieve our goals at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e376	Some people use a communication agency to get their opinions out. Today we have heard that the Progress Party, which is not in government, has a Council of State from the Christian People's Party to argue for its policy. I just noticed in it. What's really going on is that from New Year's, this council can be the first since Lars Sponheim was the Council of State, which doesn't have a goal of soil protection to reach. The current soil protection target is 4,000 deches by 2020. Since the Bondevik II government has set the soil protection target for the first time, different government councils have been working on the soil protection target that has been in force. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that during the fall there will be a new goal of soil protection from which the government will work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e383	I must first answer the claim that I defend the policy of the Progress Party, because I believe that the representative Pollestad has stood on the pulpit of the Stortinget and meant something about both the Christian People's Party and my – as the Council of State – policy. I think he has to think about what he himself is doing in certain contexts. So I want to go to the answer itself, which is that I'm concerned about having a strategy. But I also want to evaluate before I go on. I would like to remind the representative that when the Christian People's Party had proposals in 2013, the then Council of State made Trygve Battle Violence Vedum away the proposal precisely because it was not interesting – because they had no intention of going as far down as 4000 Dec. We do what we say, and we're going to move on that way. But we want to evaluate first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e390	It's enough that when you have certain expectations of a party, a person will talk about it. In 2013 it was still such that one was heading towards the half-way goal that was seen when Lars Sponheim was the Council of State. Thus, the Stortinget in the 2014-2015 Storingssesion made a new decision, for then the goal of 6,000 dean had been reached. But even though the development of cultivated land has gone the right way, there is not an equally positive development on arable land. One of the points addressed by the Central Party in its proposal is that we should also have a target for arable land, and that we should have a policy to reduce the agricultural own degradation of food soil. Then my question to the Council of State is whether these are elements that the government sees are interesting to work for and possibly to have a goal for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e399	Yes, I agree that agriculture must also take its part in not building soil. It, along with transportation, stands for a fairly large reduction in cultivated land. This means that we need to get good reporting tools and set clear targets for agriculture. I would like to include both this and the possibility of what can be grown – set goals for it. But that's what I want to take into account the same idea and strategy that I have when we've evaluated the current strategy. And then one in addition will evaluate these.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e404	It was a strange affair to hear that a Council of State from the Christian People's Party defends the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. The fact that smaller food soils have been built up in the last few years and that they are taken into account for the policy of the Progress Party was strange things. I have to remind the Council of State that both Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg have repeatedly wanted more liberalized development and have made it much easier to expand, build down and split up. This has been their mantra for years. We're thinking, for example. that they have significantly cut the objection institute. The Council of State may confirm or recognise that the liberalisation and almost mandatory reduction of the number of objections raised by, among others: The county, has it become easier to build up food soils?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e409	I am concerned that one should honor the one who is honored on this matter, the degradation of soil. Then I think the representative Nävra should go back to when his own party was put in government. At that time, it was not so much about degradation, but I defended the fact that the Progress Party has been in government and the number has fallen. I think they should be honored for that with the rest of the government. So until what's said is that you've let the statesmen get away, or we've said that the objections don't apply. The numbers show that there's less degradation than the goal, less than 4,000 deches. That means that we have that goal in mind all the time, precisely because we believe that degradation of soil is a bad way to use the earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e416	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e423	Common security depends on us making joint decisions. And some things that are a little funny, given today's debate: we have just had – and still have – a major common security challenge in dealing with the aftermath of a virus outbreak that nobody had imagined. Of course, readiness is an area we have to take seriously to make sure that we are prepared for what suddenly arises and that is unknown. That's why it's been strange to experience at Stortinget that after that we get a defense plan with great shortcomings and without concrete ambitions to finance our defense in the next few years. Similarly, we now receive proposals from the government on the status quo and no new ambitious targets for soil protection. We also know that health policy is turning towards more privatisation of the healthcare system, rather than financing our common national hospitals. This reminds me of one thing, that there is a big difference between PR and politics, because Prime Minister Erna Solberg has often argued that preparedness should improve with her. We see that in all areas is wrong, and that's why it's so stupid – when we could have made decisions here in common in the Storting across parties in the same way that we did at common soil protection efforts in the previous magnification period – that now it seems as if this is going to be downgraded. I must also say that it is surprising that the Christian People's Party now does not use the opportunity to free itself from the Advance Party. When the Progress Party then until those degrees shows that they don't care about the so-called Granavolden Declaration, this could be a golden opportunity for the Christian People's Party to go into practical areas to strengthen food preparedness, get more jobs in agriculture and increase the use of the natural resources we have in our country. It seems in every way that we need a government shift in 2021 to operate on the proposals that are in place from the red-green side. We're going to work very hard on that, because we know it's about improving the security of the inhabitants of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e434	All of them first: In case of a misunderstanding, I gave the wrong explanation of vote in the previous article. SV will vote in favour of both of the resolved proposals from MDG – just so it is noted. The council says she'll evaluate. I don't understand. I don't understand what to evaluate. It is good that we have, after all, come down to that rate of redistribution in ten years. I don't think it's primarily because of strong government intervention. It's probably due to quite conscious local politicians who've taken this inward. Perhaps there are just opposition politicians locally – the agricultural parties SV and the Central Party, with very good help from the Workers' Party – who have largely determined how progress has been made. Then I have to put a question mark on how to – I can say, and not just the government – organise state development projects, when it is possible that an entity such as the State Road Service – among three or four alternatives in the example I mentioned in the previous article, E134 in Lier, can make a proposal that divides agricultural Lier into two, a four-field road that takes 400 goals – over cauliflower, leek and other vegetables. Is it possible in 2020 – to implement it in 2021, if appropriate – to make such a proposal? Are these state councils talking? Is that serious? I think this is very strange. If not institutions like the State Road Service have got their frames and went to school to see these agricultural goals – how sacred such food soil should be – I don't understand anything. I have to put a question mark on this. I wish the Minister of Agriculture could say a little about how that contact is between the departments. I'm a little afraid, when I hear from the Council of State, that much of the good agricultural profile of the Christian People's Party had in opposition, has now been caught in some sort of blue landscape. I think it's looking to see. It is as the representative Sandtrøen has said: Now the Christian People's Party has suffered some defeat in its heart affairs. I think at least those on agricultural issues, which they have been so well with the opposition about when they were not in government, could now be a little rake in their backs, not least in terms of soil protection. I sincerely hope that the Council of State stands up for soil protection, and that we see that she is able to establish a goal if not for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e447	There has been a lot of water in the sea since the Christian People's Party, as an opposition party, promoted a representative proposal in spring 2013 on strengthening soil protection. Our proposal at the time was to set an upper annual limit for the re-disposal of cultivated land to 3,800 acres. It is quite gratifying to recapitulate how the then Minister of Agriculture and Food Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum of the Centre Party strongly and vigorously argued against that proposal by the Christian People's Party. In his reply to the nutrition committee, Schlagsvold Vedum wrote, among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The objective of the day for soil protection was discussed and established in the preparation and examination of the communication on agricultural and food policy, as we presented in December 2011. The aim is now to limit the re-disposal of cultivated land to less than 6000 decaries per year, which is a concrete expression of the previous objective. This is, in my view, an ambitious target, taking into account the high figures that existed in the 1990s and up to 2005, and taking into account the growth pressure we experience in key areas. Therefore, we do not want to change this objective now, without significant changes in the assumptions underlying the setting of the target." The representative proposal from the Christian People's Party was then duly voted down by the Red-Green Government parties on 19 June 2013, i.e. as one of the very last issues dealt with by the Stortinget while the Red-Green Government was in power. The desire to turn soil protection into an election campaign for the Red-Greens in the 2013 elections was actually so absent that they also won a vote on whether the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party should be annexed to the protocol or get the label ‘not accepted’. The vote list shows that 54 representatives from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV voted in favour of ‘not accepted’, while 46 representatives from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party voted in favour of the proposal for a representative to be annexed to the Minutes. Parties who in the spring of 2013 rejected in cash a proposal from the Christian People's Party – otherwise a proposal that, in an eye-catchingly good way, met the achieved outcome of the government's soil protection policy towards 2020 – are making itself today high and dark with the harsh criticism of the government's parties. In such a setting it is to dig a little bit in the rich archives of the Great Britain, which puts things in a historical context, and which extend further back than until 1 October 2013. The fact that opposition parties who were then in government so harshly and bombasticly rejected the proposal to sharpen the then soil protection measure of 6,000 covers re-disposed cultivated land appears in a strange light. If the same batches today, in their current mode as high-vote opposition parties, with obvious solutions at most, are able to experience it as embarrassing, yes, I'm actually unsure of that. It is certain that the current Minister of Agriculture and Food has a completely different approach. She acknowledges, on behalf of the government, the need to re-evaluate the soil protection strategy when the final target figures are available in the spring of 2021. However, contrary to the liberal attitude of the red-green government towards soil protection, it requires an in-depth investigation of the social consequences of any further increase in the target figure of less than 4000 deer redisposed to cultivated land per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e467	I will first answer the representative Nävra, who cared for the Christian People's Party who had lost so many things in government. I would like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that it is primarily in Stortinget that we have lost matters that are quite important for the Christian People's Party. Then the representative is one of those who have inflicted the Christian People's Party that wallpaper, to put it straight out. At the same time, I have to ask the same representative, who says that all local politicians are very concerned about this, about calling Trondheim and asking what it is like to use cultivated land. There has been a Christian People's Party for years about the expansion that has been, but there are actually the red-greens that have built up very, very many soils, for example. I'm concerned that we're actually going to let this strategy work. It is going to go all the way into the municipalities, and we had a unanimous increase in 2015 that set this target of 4,000 deches, because this requires some of the politicians locally, regionally and nationally. The Christian People's Party has now also received the Minister of Transport. That means that we also have goals of working together in important areas. I do the same to the municipal minister, because this is about important arenas to be able to care for the agricultural land. Something maybe also the representative Nävra is concerned about, is that when you're going to get things over from the road to the track, the path is some of the things that might also be involved in taking large parts of cultivated land. So sometimes we have to decide what's most important now to look forward, and then it's not sure that we can always have a zero. Although I'm in favour of a zero vision, we're going to have a practical policy, because we're going to achieve another goal in addition. Then it becomes important to be able to have more thoughts in your head at once. But I'm concerned that I'm going to evaluate when I've got the figures from 2020, and I'm going to spend time both looking at it and looking at what's possible to re-grow, to also provide that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e483	There is something new that has come into the debate now, which I have not experienced before. I have been used to the fact that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been shoulder to shoulder and fight against the Progress Party's agricultural policy. Now I experience a Christian People's Party that – I don't know if it is with or without the will of the Progress Party – goes to the Chair to defend the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. It's the jam of new times in politics. We think that the Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party came into the Ministry of Agriculture and four decisions in favour of development interests with champagne. That's what was real, and it was also what did what was so great, that a bunch of big ones said, "We have to have a new goal." We need to set a new soil protection target. Then there were negotiations on the Stortinget, and one was a few on a target of a maximum of 4,000 dekars by 2020. This should be one step by step. What we're facing now is that the clock is ticking towards 2021 and some of us want to have a new soil protection target that extends further. And that's what we've put forward a proposal on now. The representative, Reitten, would like to enjoy what happened in 2013, but the reality in 2013 was that one had a current goal like working towards. I am very opposed to a policy that is there that if one is not able to achieve the goal, one must set a stronger goal. No, if the target has not been reached yet, an action needs to be inserted to reach the target. And once a target is reached, a target must be set. That's what the Center Party is proposing in this case. We want a new half-life target. We want a strategy to achieve that goal. There is reason for a good working method, which has been proven to work, and that is why I don't understand why one should go away from that method. I hope that the Council of State can say that there will be a new goal to the fall, that one will then announce that one is in the process of or propose a new strategy to achieve the goal that one has seen, and that one will not only look at cultivated land, but also look at arable land and how one can take action to reduce agriculture's own land degradation. It'll be important, and I think it's going to be forwarding a recipe for success. So for a little explanation of vote. The central party shall vote in favour of proposal No. 6, by the Greens, but not by proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox In isolation, the idea is that the measures should be included in the strategy, and that we should order the strategy from the government, but here it is a well-known proposal that the Central Party has been through for a long time, and we therefore find it right to vote for it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e496	I think it's quite polite, because I've been here for a very long time, and now the parties are competing to be the most for soil protection. That's what I think is great – then we're on the right track! Then we still have to set new goals. There are examples of all parties and governments in the past that haven't done all things right. But the point is well, what are we doing now? Of course, then we're facing some dilemmas, but one of the main dilemmas we have is that we know that we have to have the food soil, and we have to deal with it so that it's in better condition in 100 years than it is today, because it actually has to feed more. To put it like that, it can't produce like that without going on. There are some people who want to go off on ants, but we don't have to do that because it hurts us. So it's this thing about what soil protection can give way to. Yes, I have said several times in public – it can be broken up by those who sit here looking in the history books – that the train must occasionally give way to soil protection. The train must go straight ahead, it must go where people live, and they have settled where there is food soil. But the road can swing, because on cars it's steering wheel. We've been waiting for them to just dive into four fields, over the best food soil. They do that where I live, around Hamar, and it's just not good at all. We have to stop it, because we can't allow that. Plans are in the municipalities. Then it is important what the government is doing with changes to objections in important areas. To have a yes attitude to everything is a negative move. We need to ensure that municipalities have the competence to identify both soil protection, nature and biodiversity. There we have had investigations, including: one named EVAPLAN, which is a major study showing that there is a lack of competence in the section to decide on many of these matters. We have e.g. removed the requirement for environmental advisers in the municipal sector. We need to have expertise there, so that local politicians get professionally good and up-to-date advice on what is possible. On soil protection, it's the same thing as on nature protection too: one little piece doesn't look so big, but then you take a little bit here and a little bit there and a big bit there, and in sum this becomes impossible. That's why we need to set ourselves these new goals, these higher targets, and then get a system rigged to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e511	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e516	The representative, Andersen, took up a little bit of the point about this by rail, which I kind of got an enquiry from the Council of State. Well, that's true, she's definitely going to be right in, that the railroad can take the ground. The representative, Andersen, has explained why: it goes more straight ahead. But we also see that there are many places we could put the railway in a different trajectory. We now see it in connection with the Ringerix Railway. We see that Bane NOR has made a new proposal, the south-alternative in the old lower Eiker, and 250 targets of Eiker's best soil are probably taken if you're going to follow that advice. This is not necessary and SV has provided another option. What I want to say is that the two Councils of State, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Transport – who now come from the same party, and to date the Minister of Transport, former Minister of Environment, must talk very well together. Let's see if we don't get a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e525	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e530	Just a brief comment to the representative Pollestad: He knows just as well as he signed that during the first six years of his reign, the government was dealing with the Christian People's Party as a party that set the agenda of agricultural policy on the basis of its programme – with the government councils of the Advance Party in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which dealt with it in a pragmatic and good way. Then the Christian People's Party joined the government in January 2019. When the Granavolden platform was in place, the representative Sylvi Listhaug said that the chapter on agriculture might as well have been written by the Norwegian Landerslag. As the agricultural political figure of the Christian People's Party, I just want to say that it is one of the finest compliments we have ever received. I also believe that the Progress Party is wise enough not to challenge us on what is said about agriculture in the Granavolden platform. There are very important things for us in the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e543	At the request of the Business Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e571	I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation in these matters, which has resulted in unanimous votes by the Committee. Geo-blocking is, as everyone knows, the fact that some companies prevent consumers or other final customers from trading from websites to segment markets. This case is good news for Norwegian consumers and final customers. Some have probably experienced over the years that a product has had different prices depending on which of the company’s websites you have accessed. Since this Regulation was introduced into the EU, consumers, with the law in hand, have been able to demand purchase at the lowest price. This means that the same supplier cannot give different prices to Spanish and Germans – and now also to Norwegians – on the same product. One may have different prices in different countries, but consumers can use the best-priced website. A brief look at some online shops shows that this is not a completely unknown practice. In some cases, this would be natural as a result of charging and shipping costs. However, in some cases price differences are greater than can be defended. In cases of purchases e.g. by hotel accommodation or travel there is no such explanation. Fortunately, due to the introduction of this Regulation, it is no longer so common. Now is the time to make this Regulation applicable also to Norway. This is a positive result of our EEA cooperation and which would have been difficult in practice to achieve without this type of international cooperation. The EEA Agreement gives us a stronger consumer protection, a protection that will allow Norwegian consumers to benefit from the best offer in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e584	I didn't think I could be any worse than the case rapporteur, so I said a few words, and so did I. The rights of consumers and traders in trading on networks in the EEA are an important part of the internal market. The European Commission’s studies show that only 19 pst. consumers in the EEA trade online from another EEA country. They also show that 63 pst. of all websites do not allow customers to trade from another EEA country. By preventing discrimination based on geographicality, customers throughout the EEA area will have the same opportunities to acquire goods and services online. This will contribute to increased trade and competition. In addition, this will give customers more choice. By preventing geo-blocking in network commerce, more transparency is achieved in markets and customers are more informed about prices, conditions and selection in the EEA market. The Geo-blocking Code is a further development of the existing anti-discrimination ban in the Services Act. The aim of the rules is for customers in the same situation to be treated equally, irrespective of nationality or geographicality. The EU is our most important market, and it is important that we work to strengthen the internal market and remove barriers to trade between countries. This will benefit customers who want to trade online, while stimulating economic growth. When customers in the EEA are exposed to geo-blocking in network trading, it is difficult to exploit the potential of the internal market. With the new legislation, it will no longer be permitted to discriminate between customers acting on networks in the EEA. This code will be used, for example: give us the opportunity to shop on the website that has the best offer, regardless of which EEA country you visit the website from. In addition, the legislation shall prevent the transmission to other versions of a website without the consent of consent. Overall, these rules provide the basis for assessing goods and services in a larger market than is the case when choices are limited. I am pleased that we now have a legislation that is beneficial to both consumers and traders, as well as strengthening the internal market in the EEA. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I hope the committee can look at this as an example of follow-up when the government delivers matters later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e603	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e620	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e627	This is my first case as case rapporteur, and there has been no simple case in view of the proposal, that we should change a practice that has lasted over several years. Also, fishermen in the east will not lose income, and fishermen in the west will be able to access new income. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee, although I have not seen much to the Committee because of the corona. The proposers in the case are Bengt Rune Strifeldt and Morten Ørsal Johansen. The aim of the proposal is to extend the area access of the quotad king-fishing. The proposal has two parts. The proposers want all fishermen in Finnmark to be allowed to participate in crab fisheries in the quotad area of East Finland, i.e. fishermen from West Finland shall have the same right to fish for crabs as those in the east. The proposers also want one to consider the requirement to fish, so as to ensure that there are active fishermen who have access to the fish. The Committee considers that king crab fishing is a valuable resource that needs to be properly managed in order to limit the further spread of the species, making other traditional fishing difficult and affecting the marine diversity. The Committee notes that, in this context, the government has considered the proposal to extend participation in quota fisheries for king crabs and that one has warned that the ministry will continue to work to analyse the economic, administrative and lasting consequences of such a proposal. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the Council of State considers that proposal No. 2 should be seen in the context of and assessed by whom and how many are to be involved in commercial fishing. It was concluded that the two-part administrative regime has been successful and has helped effectively to limit further spread within the quota area, while at the same time the king crab has become a resource for vessels and land installations. For people in Finnmark, this is an important thing, and that is to hope that what we agree on, does not create division in Finnmark, but brings people together. It's already a very big debate. The hats are raised, and people are cursed, especially in the east. On the other hand, those who live in the west are very happy and look forward to getting fish crab. I look forward to a fine debate and discuss the proposals of which the Central Party is part. Proposal No. 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The government asks the government to consider increasing efforts to deal with the unregistered king crab fish.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e643	The representative Geir Adelsten Iversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e648	A majority will now adopt amendments to today’s king crab management and have active fishermen in Finnmark participate in king crab fisheries. There have naturally been strong reactions in parts of Finnmark, while the changes are desired in other parts of the county. We know that this is a contentious topic, and then it's important to be extra responsive, to be careful, to listen and to be tactful. But we are now getting used to the fact that the government parties and the Progress Party are not impacting changes in the fisheries policy, and that is not going to be less serious for that reason. The working party agrees that there may be grounds for considering whether management should be changed. But once again, I have to stand here and remember how important it is that when we're going to make changes, it has to be based on knowledge. I think it is quite remarkable that the majority once again demonstrate that they do not take into account the clear criticism of the Riksrevision, and once again change the policy without making a complete assessment of the change. It does not, in fact, hold that the proposal put forward by Mr Strifeldt believes that the limit set today is artificial. That is not how we should manage the fisheries policy. The fisherman magazine wrote yesterday that the changes in regulations came down like a bomb in the industry last week. As a rule, fisheries policy was changed without a proper impact assessment. I don't think this is very good, that's not how we should manage this industry. The majority also take several shortcuts in the matter. The merger rightly recalls that this is a matter of direct concern to Sami interests. In that case, under the agreement concluded with the Sametinget, consultations shall be held with the Sametinget and no such consultation has taken place. It may not be such that the agreement with the Sameting is merely for decoration. It shall apply in all cases. I understand the reactions. We have a two-part administration today, and it has been concluded that the administration that has been has been successful. The Labour Party, as I said, opens up so that we can make changes, but I think it is incredibly important to listen to professional input and not to contribute to creating more conflict in something that is already very conflicty. As was also pointed out yesterday by the Fischreicherblad: when fisheries policy is managed according to the approach of introduction, it is wrong to do so. The Labour Party cannot be involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e663	I will in many ways join the comments of the case rapporteur on this matter. It's a challenging thing, also for us. Ideally, we would like to leave the quota regulation of areas and access to catch go hand in hand, so that the extension of participation was linked to the expansion of the area. The right-hand starting point is enough that it is natural to look at such an extension of areas and access. I understand that the assessments are in progress. This is initially an undesirable species in Norwegian marine fauna, and this means that the administration also needs to be handled separately. Whoever gets involved in the fishing is a political decision. Basically, this is not a black and white assessment. There are good reasons why those who have suffered the greatest harm are benefiting from the resource. At the same time, it is difficult to set a limit that does not cause damage to those outside the border. Although the injury rate is lower, there is also significant damage to tools outside the zone. We have therefore come to the conclusion that it is also right that those who live in the whole of Finnmark will participate. This obviously has a negative impact on those currently involved in quota fishing and a positive impact on those who are now able to do so. The border has clearly led to a move of the registered vessel, and when the border was adjusted for a time back, we saw a return of the place of registration of the ship. So if you base the numbers that we have, it's going to be 40 pst. of the boats involved in quota fishing, actually boats which in their time were originally resident in West Finland. It shows that the boundary line also has its sides and is not as unambiguous and clear as it could look like initially. Such border challenges are likely to exist in any case, but it is natural to assume that they will be reduced if the physical distance between today's place of registration and where one can fish quotad becomes larger as it now becomes. The challenge of putting a line across a region where winning and losing are so clearly defined without necessarily having an exact relationship between the load and the gain, makes us fall down on the fact that it is right to expand. It has been important for us to carry out an assessment of the quota management area at the same time and whether it is right to extend the limit. The 26° management limit is subject to professional judgement. Here we have to consider that the professional recommendations need to be assessed in terms of profitability and to minimise the damage caused by invasion. Such an assessment makes sense to keep going. Dissimulation fishing, as far as I can see, has not stopped the species, but slowed it down. Of course, such a disembarkation fish is only interesting if someone finds it economically interesting. It implies that if it succeeds, it becomes less interesting. As a result, the question arises whether this is the best way to manage species prevalence. Such assessments will be important in the future. Here we must build on the best possible knowledge. Questions are asked about whether we should consider even more before we start, if necessary. We have come to the conclusion that this consideration, if it is to apply to the 2021 quota year, must be held up against the possibility for fishermen to adapt. We are alerted that the Centre Party is changing its proposal for an assessment of increased control efforts and will support the revised proposal, as it now emerges, in the light of the revelations we have seen in the past, but we also stress the use of assessment, because we must give the administration the opportunity to carry out a risk-based assessment of which supervision and controls are to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e682	The King crab is an introduced species in the Barents Sea. Russian researchers outsourced the king crab in Murmanskfjorden in the 1960s to establish a new fishing resource. Since then it has spread east and west along the coastline and has now come to stay. The King crab is a valuable resource and needs proper management. The evaluation of its management has shown that it has been successful. The red-green opposition has on several occasions called for measures to be taken to recruit fishermen without making any realistic proposals. The red-green opposition believes that it creates activity and value creation in coastal communities with impositions and subsidies. For the Progress Party, which many point to as the constructive opposition, it is more important that measures facilitate increased activity and value creation in coastal communities across the long-range Norwegian coast. Therefore, the Progress Party promotes a proposal to allow fishermen to live in West Finland to participate in the quotad king-fishing in East Finland. When you look at the evolution that has been of the number of branded fishing vessels in Finnmark, it should also worry about the red-green opposition. The number of registered vessels in the municipalities included in the quotad area for king crab fishing has increased by 40 pst. in the last 10 years, while the number of registered vessels in the municipalities of Rest-Finland is reduced by 45 pst. during the same period. The majority of the Committee, all other than the member of the SV, have taken note of the unfortunate developments that have taken place. This unfortunate development can now be addressed by allowing fishermen living in West Finland to participate in the quotad king-fishing in East Finland. Concern is expressed about the negative impact this will have on those who currently have allowances, that it will result in reduced revenues for them. Those who express that concern are mainly the municipalities and fishermen who currently have quota rights and who do not want to share the good with their professional brothers. The total quota is currently 1530 tonnes. If all vessels qualified to fish king crabs in West Finland will participate in the quotad fishing, it will constitute a share in the order of 250 tonnes. With the Progress Party in government, we have focused on measures to bring about the survival of fishing crime, which we see yielding results. When you catch the illegal royal crab fish that has been exposed, which is probably between 300 and 500 tonnes per year, there will be enough quotas for fishermen from West Finland without having negative consequences for those who already have quota rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e697	We see the problem of fishermen both in West Finland and in East Finland, and we understand that this is a difficult situation. We also understand the fear of fishermen from East Finland, who are concerned that this decision should go beyond their situation. I think this matter is complicated, and I am not sure that the majority is landing on the right decision today. There are a lot of considerations to take into account in this case. That is why we want the matter to be investigated more, we need more knowledge and answers to more questions. We have also received feedback from the Sameting that they think the procedure has been defective, and that we have not had real consultations with them in the process. The case concerns Sami interests, and then the Sametinge should have had the opportunity to deal with it. We recognize that the king crab is a major challenge for the coastal fishermen in Finnmark, and that it is increasingly heading further down our coast. We know that many fishermen, especially in the east, have great challenges with the crab destroying ordinary fishing, and that it was therefore initially the fishermen in eastern Finland who were awarded king-crab quotas. The reason that the king crab fish has been only for them is that there are so many king crabs there, and that it has gone directly beyond the fishermen. For the royal crab, it's not good to get into the net – it fools itself, and it destroys important tools, making it more demanding to fish other fish in an efficient and good way. The idea was that this should serve as a complement to normal fishing. Now the king crab has become more popular in the food dish, it has become exclusive and lucrative to fish. It is traded for millions of years, and it is of course hijacked and perhaps illogical for the fishermen in West Finland to see that the colleagues in the East have hoarded the crab that they themselves are not allowed to touch. Most of the time when something is lucrative, more people will get involved, and then we can end up getting smaller on everyone. The King crab, which once was just a plague, has now become a valuable resource that we need to have a good policy to manage in a good way. We have a responsibility to prevent dispersal and make sure that the king crab doesn't destroy any more for both the fish and the other species in our ocean. The two-part administrative regime has worked well in many ways, but at the same time it is illogical to divide a state into two in terms of fishing rights. Of course, we from SV want a solution that is best for the whole Finnmark, and that contributes to the creation of value, while limiting the negative consequences of the royal crab for other types of fish. That is why we are involved in the minority proposal in the Committee, where we are asking the government to investigate both a model where it is opened to extend quota fisheries to West Finland, and a system that provides fishing vessels registered in West Finland's quotas for fishing in East Finland. We have also seen for a long time that there is a lot of unregistered royal crab fishing in Finnmark, where you find that there is more crab than you are allowed to, and that it is sold outside the open market. Of course, we want the government to do something about increasing the effort to get rid of it. Now I see that my time is running out soon, but finally I just want to say that we who have grown up along the coast have an inherent culture where we're going to take care of each other. That's what's in our spinal cord. We believe that the last thing we need now is more resistance and conflict between East and West in Finnmark. Then it might be wise to discuss this matter more before you land on a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e716	The King crab is basically an unwanted species. Before the royal crab invaded parts of the coast in the north, the fjord bed was characterized by a great diversity of natural species. But while the invasion of the royal crab has given rise to major challenges in ecosystems, it has also given substantial commercial catch to parts of Finnmark. The royal crab is very lucrative in the market and has high prices, which has made the crab attractive for fishing. Norwegian administration of royal crabs has had a two-part objective. This management has been stable since 2008 and involves a quotad fishing in a demarcated area of eastern Finland, east of the 26th parallel. Outside that area, there has been free fishing, with a main objective of keeping the framework population as small as possible. In the consultation round of the proposals we are discussing today, there was clear support for the extension of the area access to the quotad king-fishing. The Norwegian Fisheries Team points out that the changes proposed will contribute to greater stability and predictability of the industry, and wishes to review the framework conditions for king crab fisheries for the group that will achieve the stability and predictability they need. The fisherman now points out that it is necessary to take action in order to contribute to the allocation of king crab quotas that more compensates the active fisherman who is actually plagued with the king crab in other fisheries. They – and more – are worth listening to. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that the regulation on the regulation of the capture of king crabs in the quota area east of the 26th parallel does not change in the light of this proposal. Royal crabs caught in the quota area must be landed within the already quotad area. The left will allow future generations to benefit from these resources. We are committed to taking care of nature. We believe that we must prevent the further spread of royal crabs, and we must operate a fish in line with the goal of keeping the population of royal crabs as low as possible. Therefore, we believe that the possibility of moving the current limit of the quotad king-fishing in East Finland to the former boundary between Finnmark and Troms should be explored, focusing in particular on the environmental consequences of the possible opening up of quotad fishing also to the west of Finnmark. Then I have some comments about the so-called disembarkation fish, which I don't think has worked optimally. I think that if you're going to keep having a disembarkation fish, it's going to have to be a premiere if you want to have an optimised setup of it. Then one must also consider whether to price small crabs in the west, so that also the boats there have the opportunity to reduce that stock on the hike further west. The representative, Adelsten Iversen, made an adjusted proposal, proposal No. 2 from the minority. It's also going to support the Left. So a little comment on proposal No. 3: This requirement is there per day and will be passed on, so in my opinion it seems quite unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e741	The royal crab is both a valuable resource and a foreign species that harms traditional fishing. The principle that has been laid down is that royal crabs are an important resource to harvest in areas where they have established themselves, but it is not desirable that it spread further. That's why we've also had decimate fish for king crabs. The two-part administrative regime has been successful; it has contributed effectively to limiting further spread beyond the quota area. At the same time, it is a fact that the royal crab has gradually become a very profitable resource for vessels and landing facilities in the quotad area, which in turn has resulted in a shift of landing patterns and the number of vessels in Finnland. Of the eleven recordings that have come into this case, only one is negative to extend the area access of the quotad king crab fish, while the ten other recordings support the extension of participation in the fish for king crabs. Recordings from the largest fishing organisations, the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the Nord Fisheries Team, which organise fishermen both in East and West Finland, both support an extension of participation in fish for king crabs, and it weighs heavily on us in the Christian People's Party. The North Fisheries Team points out that it is necessary to take action to contribute to the allocation of the king crab quota, which compensates to a greater extent the active fisherman who is actually plagued by the king crab in other fisheries. The Norwegian Fisheries Team points out that the changes proposed will contribute to greater stability and predictability of the industry, and wishes to review the framework conditions for the king crab fishers in order to achieve the stability and predictability they need. In order to address the disadvantages of the extension of participation in king crab fishing, Norway’s Fiskarlag asks that the regulation on fish for king crabs be improved by, inter alia: be taken to contribute to the allocation of the king crab quota which compensates more effectively the active fishermen who are actually plagued by the king crab in other fisheries. It is likely that the active fishermen in West Finland have had their original fishery damaged by the entry of the king crab and it would be natural to give them the right to harvest this resource on the same basis as fishermen in Måsøy were allowed to participate in the quotad fishery for royal crab in 2017. We also noticed the consultation performance from the West Finnmark Regional Council, which in a good way documents what I previously had in mind with a shift of landing patterns and vessels from west to east in Finnmark, and which in the west is perceived as being at a critical level. On this basis, the Christian People's Party supports the proposals promoted by the majority, although we understand that this is not uncontroversial. We still think there are good changes. At the same time, I would like to say that we support proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, provided that the wording is changed, as was said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e759	The King crab is a special resource that needs to be managed properly. It's an introduced species that doesn't belong in, and that changes, our ecosystem, and it's to plague in other fish. At the same time, it is a valuable resource. The king crab catch has become important. Business operators, both fishermen and rural industries, have been good at creating an attractive product. I perceive that there is a broad consensus on the principles underlying the administration of royal crabs. The issue of increasing participation in the quota area by vessels from all over West Finland has been addressed by the Stortinget in the past and, as the Committee notes, the government already has a process to do so. The question was raised in 2019 by the Department. The decision at the time was not to change the participation in the fisheries, but it was announced that the government would continue to work to analyse the impact of the proposal. The analysis is not finished, but what I can say is that today we do not have professional input that advises against increasing participation in this fishing for reasons of natural diversity. The question of increasing participation in the quotad area after king crabs is therefore a question of distribution and the question is whether the values of king crab fish can be divided into several. Stable high quotas and good market prices have provided very good performance for this additional fishing and provide greater room for increased participation in it. I have noticed that the Norwegian Fisheries Team, which organises fishermen in both East and West Finland, supports an extension of participation. I believe this is an important signal to listen to. Including vessels from West Finland in the quota area will make all Finnmark vessels equal in terms of exploiting the positive contribution that king crab fish can make to profitability. When the change in participation takes effect only from the regulatory year 2021, it gives us some time to set us up in a good way. In the case of Part Two of the proposal, the government has also previously indicated that the steps of the quota model should be adjusted up, and I will follow up the Storting’s request for a step-up model in an appropriate manner. I also record that it is requested that we investigate the possibilities to extend commercial areas to the whole of Finnmark. This is a work that has already started, and which I will now follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e781	As the minister just said, there is an analysis that is not finished. But despite the fact that it's not finished, we have one thing here where we make very clear decisions. Does the Minister for Fisheries, in view of what we have seen in the fisheries policy over time, think that we are making changes a little too quickly, without investigations, that it would be better to go for the minority's proposal to investigate this but could also be ready for the quota year 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e786	This is not an unknown matter, it is a discussion that has been going on almost for generations. I would also like to say that last year the Department started a process on the question, which we are actually in the final phase of, and where the Sameting has also been consulted. When it comes to the question of when to start, we note that the bulk of the population wants to distribute allowances differently from before, and as I said in my post, there is no scientific advice that suggests that you can't increase participation. It's just a question of distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e793	The question was whether this has been fully investigated, and then I ask again: does the Minister for Fisheries think that this matter is sufficiently prepared to be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e798	As I replied instead, we are in the final phase of the investigation process that has been going on since last year, and there is no scientific advice that suggests that you cannot change the participation in the fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e803	One last question: is there any video that suggests that you shouldn't do this so quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e808	I have already answered that question. This is a question of distribution, and there is no technical advice to suggest that participation in fisheries cannot be increased, as proposed by the majority in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e813	Several representatives have indicated that there has been no real consultation with the Sameting. As far as I know, there was a consultation with the Sameting in the matter after the former fisheries minister Harald Tom Nesvik sent the matter out to the hearing last year. Can the Council of State confirm this? And does it not mean that the consultation obligation with the Sameting is with the Government and that the Storting is not subject to the consultation obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e818	I will give the representative quite straight in his line. The government has complied with the obligation to consult as it is to do in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e823	Let me start by asking the Council of State to be careful to make a statement to the Bastant about what is true of the Storting regarding consultation with the Sameting. That's where I'll refer to a letter from the presidency that comes with more information about it. But let's do it. Usually when there are fisheries, there is something that is a little new about the process, a little hard to understand. So here, the Council of State has had a hearing. It's got 41 auditions. It's been a deal. People have bitter rain. But then only the Storting comes in and makes a decision. Then my question is: wouldn't the Council of State have been more comfortable with the fact that there was a professional basis from the Ministry to the ground before his own government party and the Progress Party made decisions, or is this a form of initiative in the Stortinget and government from the Stortinget that the Council of State is well pleased with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e833	We should have completed the investigation that is being carried out, but as I mentioned in my post, we have no professional advice to suggest that you cannot increase participation. This is a question of distribution. It may be important to draw attention to the fact that there is additional fishing. There are significant revenues, and revenue will vary according to the size of the quota and the price of the royal crab. The size is in a way free to increase participation. There's no scientific advice that suggests you can't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e838	First of all, this is about who's going to get fish, and how much you're going to make on this fishing. The coastal fishing team has submitted a proposal. I don't know if it's sent to the State Council, but I know that the content is consistent with what the Center Party and the other opposition believe, that you have to look at a whole administration across Finnmark. If you had this administration, the loss of income would not be great for those who have been used to fishing, and thus the basis for war would not have been present. Why has this not been taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e843	I want to give the representative the right in saying that there is a struggle for resources, and it is also a matter of sharing the goods, which some parties have used as slogans. I am also aware that there has been a long and hot discussion for nearly decades around the allocation of these resources. I think you have to be careful to handle this in a good way, so there won't be chaos in the fields. That's what I think I'll solve for pretty straightforward. So it's just that there's an additional income here of maybe up to half a million dollars a year. There is a change in the pattern of some ships from West Finland to East Finland over the year, as the West Finland Council has stated in its opinion, which should also be included in the assessment. It's a difficult thing, and there's no exact phase in it, but we get it based on both the price of the crab and the size of the allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e850	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e857	Norwegian king crab management is based on two principles: those who get their original fishing damaged after the entry of the king crab are those who must also have the right to harvest it, and king crab fishing must not be a main fishery, but an additional catch for those affected by the problems of the king crab in their fisheries. The royal crab is increasingly a major challenge for active fishermen also in West Finland, where there is a disinfestation fish for king crabs. They get used destroyed by king crabs, and traditional fish fields become inaccessible because they're full of crabs. In the disembarkation area, there is free fishing, and anyone can put out as many crabs as they want – even me. These disadvantages have not been taken into account by the Marine Research Institute when they have claimed that fishermen in the West do not have challenges with the entry of the king crab. These conditions indicate that the active fishers in Rest-Finnmark shall also have the right to harvest the king crab in the quotad area. Looking at the evolution in the number of vessels in Finnmark, it is frightening. The total number of vessels in Finnland has not changed significantly in the last 10 to 12 years, but the distribution between those holding allowances and those not holding allowances in the Rest of Finland is alarming. Here the figures are very clear: the number of vessels in the quota area has increased by over 45 pst, to well over 700-750 vessels. During the same period, the number of vessels has been reduced by more than 40 p.p., to the lower edge of 200 vessels in West Finland. There is an unfortunate development that the majority of the Committee has taken note of, with the exception of the member from SV. If you really want to keep the active fisherman in Rest-Finnmark, you need to grab hold of it now. There's no time to lose. A minority in the Committee propose further investigations before a decision is taken. It seems to me that the Workers' Party and the Center Party do not want to have active fishermen and coastal communities in West Finland. They will take the time to boost the last active fishermen and to phase out fisheries and coastal communities in West Finland. It is disappointing that the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party are not willing to share the benefits in order to preserve the active fishermen and coastal communities in West Finland. They choose to ignore hearings from fisheries organisations that organise fishermen in both East and West Finland, such as the Nord and Norwegian Fisheries Teams. Finally, I would like to thank the government parties for their cooperation and for listening to the recordings that have come from the fisheries organisations. The Progress Party will also support proposal No. 2, now that it has been amended by the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e876	The reason why the crab is so important, we had a debate about it a while ago, in connection with the quota notification, when we found out how we want it to be driven forward. It does not provide ground for any more fishing activity along the Finnmark coast. There are too few allowances, and it is too expensive to buy allowances – I am thinking about cod quotas. It is clear that this crab may be involved in delaying what is happening, but that is what is important overall in this case. We also know that we now get the Riksrevisions report, which I expect is going to be thoroughly evaluated in this room. They have already pointed out that we may have been on a bit of a wrong course. One of the principles for fishing crabs has been that the crab should be a nuisance. The crab scratches, and it scratches south. It's a long way south. There'll be more and more crabs in the West. If you look at the tons that have been taken up in free fishing — desimation fish, as it is called — there are significant amounts of crab that have been taken. If you had distributed that crab across the whole county, you wouldn't have had a big drop in the incomes of the fishermen who have been in there before. Today, a fish for 200000 kroner is required to participate. For many, it is difficult to fish for 200,000 kroner, especially in areas where the cod or other fish are gone. Often you have small boats, and you have to go far to get cod. It's important that the whole thing is heard. When they say – at the latest on a phone call to me last night – that they have not been heard in this matter, I think it is frightening. The fishing crew are the ones who are heard, while the coastal fishing team, who have a slightly different approach to this matter, and who do not want the conflict that is being raised to now, is not being heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e889	This is definitely a demanding matter, which I like to say, or a difficult matter. There is no doubt that the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV will also open up to this change in 2021, but there is something about the way a person does it. Let me do one example. One is very high and dark on that there's come eleven recordings to the committee. Ten of them are positive, and one is negative. But one doesn't say that the department has had a 41-gauge hearing. 13 input is positive, 27 input is negative, and one is neutral. It doesn't seem worth mentioning, and I think it's very, very strange. Now I also mean that counting audio recordings is a bad way of driving politics. It's not like a do, it should be the arguments in the audio input that apply. It is clear that the department has heard and had consultations with the Sameting, but there is no government document on the basis of which we are discussing today. So it's for the state council's own pleasure they've been consulted, and it's not consultation. Consulting is that this is done after the processes that are, and then comes to Stortinget with a case, a proposition, a message where this is described in a proper way. Over the years in the nutrition committee, I have often boasted of the representative of the Christian People's Party, Steinar Reiten, to be very thorough and thorough. But now there's been a little more bonanza and bingo about politics. It seems to me that I'm very sorry in such an important area, and where we have time to do this. The reality of the matter now, which is that one has to have an activity requirement escalation plan, is that there will be no more king crabs – we cannot adopt any more king crabs on the Stortinget. So someone has to lose the chance for others to get, and that's why it turns up the activity requirement – the smallest fishermen east of Finnmark will lose the right to catch royal crabs, so that fishermen in the west will get. Yes, I love the fishermen in the west to get this. I think we should consider expanding the kingdom crab area as well. But one should be honest and tell the fishermen with the smallest boats in the east that one has intended to take from the king crab quotas, because it is a do. That's the reality, and it would have been in a big shot or a proposition from the government, but it's not when one deals with politics in the form of recordings. It may be that such recordings may be important, but here there was a process that went, that we could have discussed in the Storting in the fall and took a decision that could have been in force for the allowance year 2021. It's very bad that a doesn't select that model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e904	When it comes to increased control, which a unanimous collapse seems to land on, I would say that it is very important that there is a broad consensus around it. That's very good. I want to say that the government is very focused on it with resource control. It's not just royal crabs, it's all our marine resources. It's a very important part of the sustainable management of fish stocks and marine resources, which we've done very well, and which also makes fishing for next year. We have had great success with good cooperation with our neighbours in the East, Russia in particular, and that work must continue. We have already introduced stricter rules on ghost fishing and the smoking of crabs, just to put an end to the ghost fishing around the coast, and we also feel that there is strong support for it. Now we are also in the process of following up the NOU on better resource control. A letter of consultation has been sent out describing a number of absolutely necessary measures. I just want to warn from this pulpit that it is very important that we have more stringent resource control and better control than we have had. It is very good that a unanimous increase is in line with the proposal that has been made. It gives us a greater weight in our work to get even better resource control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e917	I think it's a little special that representatives go to the pulpit and claim that someone wants to take king crab quotas from someone. That is not what we are discussing in this matter. You have to look at the activity requirement, it is not said to take from any allowances. Maybe you have to adjust them up or down – we'll get back to that. So I just want to state that there's a distinction between big business and government. The government had a consultation round and received its input, the Stortinget has also had its consultation round and received eleven recordings. We choose to listen to the fishermen's organisations that organise fishermen both in the East and West, and their recommendations. The red-green opposition chooses to ignore the hearings of the fishermen’s organisations, such as Fiskarlag Nord and Norges Fiskarlag. The Nordic and Norwegian Fisheries Team states that ‘it is necessary to intervene in order to contribute to the allocation of king crab quotas’. [[...]] They also write: « to include the remaining municipalities in West Finland appears to be the most correct. This is for the sake of profitability and hence stability and predictability of the industry.» They believe that such a change will not change the administrative principles of the Royal Cancer Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e926	This is probably a small comment to the representative Pollestad: I thank you for hearing that I am usually thorough. We have not had a bonanza approach in this matter either, I have actually gone through the hearing opinions from 2019 to which the representative Pollestad referred. There it was, among other things. a very good and balanced statement from the Sametinget, as we have also read. What characterises the hearing opinions is, as expected, quite predictable. Those who speak in the east, whether they are municipalities or fishermen, are against, those who speak from West Finland, are for. That is why we have chosen to pay particular attention to what has come from organisations representing fishermen themselves: the Fiskarlag, the Fiskarlag Nord, the West-Finnmark Coastal Fisheries Team and last but not least, as I said, the opinion of the West-Finnmark Regional Council. So we mean we've done the job. We have gone into this thoroughly, and our conclusion is not reached on a simple basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e931	It has now been firmly stated that the process in this case has been reasonably absent. I want to remember what kind of time we're in. Most of the time in the last year, not least in the last months, has gone to another very important, major fisheries policy issue, namely the quota notification, while at the same time facing a rather demanding situation that both the collapse and the government need to deal with. Therefore, it is particularly important to do good to these processes. It may sound boring just to drive and talk about process, but especially in contentious matters, good processes are important – where you put knowledge first, where you listen and are predictable. You are not at all involved in this matter. The working party is open to make changes. In the proposal that we are part of, we even say that the changes that might have to be considered must be ready for the 2020/2021 quota year. It would be a neat and proper way to do this. There will always be conflict in a matter of distribution, of rights, but I think it is incredibly sad that we, for example. have not had consultations with the Sameting. I understand that it reacts to it. It's Storting's own responsibility. Then I would say that what also appeared in the Riksrevisions report was not least about the coastal communities. A great many coastal communities have been weakened over time, against the political will. That's not what we wanted, that's not what has been the political objectives, not least in the East. So I understand that there are reactions. Also, I know that there are many who are happy about the change, but I believe that as a big deal, we need to be neat and real in these matters instead of making a quick look or a good deal that may be important in a demanding time. We have to be thorough in what we're doing. We haven't been here, and I'm worried that we're now creating more conflict instead of doing this really.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e947	In an interview in Sør-Varanger Avis, the representative Tom-Christer Nilsen says that fishermen who have now had a quota are likely to suffer a loss of approx. 18 pst. For those who know this, it's going to be about 90,000 kroner. In addition, I would like to say that with the minority proposal, it would also have been processed, so that you could have done it by 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e952	If you read the comments and suggestions, initially the differences aren't so big, and then it's a little strange that we're still running a new process debate, which we got used to during the quota notification. That's clearly what's become the interesting thing. It is also noticeable that the only one in addition to me who said that this is an unwanted species was Tom-Christer Nilsen. That's essentially that. Then it's a little surprising that someone doesn't take hold of it and mention it under the posts. They refer to free fishing or desimation fishing. Then, of course, you can use some words to ask if it has worked optimally, because it might look like the king crab is moving on. It is not likely that this has any clear links with the remaining fish in Finnmark. Otherwise, it's to say to what the representative Geir Adelsten Iversen said, that the proposals that the opposition has made will initially have exactly the same consequences when you distribute to the whole of Finnmark. I thought in my naivety that although this is of course a great resource for parts of Finnmark, it was also a goal that we should manage to stop the walk to the royal crab, so that it no longer comes south. I understand that the representative Adelsten Iversen is obviously not so concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e959	There were several things here that I felt the need to comment. First to the representative, Strifeldt: it's not that you choose to ignore the recordings, but I may think that the recordings have just shown that you haven't necessarily reached the wrong conclusion, or that the majority are wrong, but that both the debate and the feedback you have received on this matter show that more information is needed. To the last representative who was on the platform, I think that the answer is kind of the same, that it's not that the result might have been different, but that it would have been easier to get behind the result if you found out that that was the trick. I'm a little unsure if I think you have. I do not think that the answers we have received in the debate either now or in advance have been satisfactory enough. On the contrary, it shows that this can create more challenges than solutions, and then you are on the wrong track, with respect for reporting. I'm worried that if you rush this decision without a good enough process, you'll be involved in destroying the good environment you have on the ocean outside of Finnmark. Then I think it would be more constructive to collect and collect information and get a larger overall assessment to be able to put in the measures that are at the best for the fishermen, and make sure that's what you're doing, because I don't feel like you are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e966	The crab is fished west of Nordkapp – the so-called desimation fish. It is a significant fish – now I do not have the numbers in my head, but it certainly has the Minister for Fisheries. Several tons have been taken up, it actually means so much that if you had taken it together with what was taken in the east, it would have been minimally all of them had gone down in total income. It will still be if you move the border to Finnmark as Finnmark was. It will have to be fished empty, because you do not want the crab to crawl southward. What's been a little bit of a challenge with the fishing that's been going on now is that you might have used some wrong equipment, you've used the same tenets that you've used in ordinary fishing. So the smallest crab actually scratches through the pond and further south. You might want to think about it a little bit later, that you have a different type of tea. My wish is to try to avoid the conflict you're putting up with now, because there's going to be a conflict between East and West. And there's a conflict between East and West after this proposal came. I live west of Finnmark. I talked so far to the Reiten about this. He says to me, "But you're going to be happy, because you're getting crabs in Hasvik." I'm glad that Hasvik gets crabs, but at the same time it's with a bismach because those who live in the east are losing on this. And that's not good. In the west you have the opportunity to fish a little more of both haze, siev and cod than you might get in some places in the east. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e973	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e978	Several people have said that the process has not been good. The proceedings have been carried out in a normal way — as when the Business Committee in Stortinget deals with other matters. There has been written consultation. There have been eleven hearings – one was negative, ten was positive. To the representative of Adelsten Iversen, the majority have a comment on how to explore the possibility of moving the current border to the previous border between Troms and Finnmark. But it didn't want the Center Party to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e983	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1000	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1007	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. I would also particularly like to thank the whole Committee for its commitment to children and young people and families who need help. I think it is also important in this case to stress that we have received a lot of good input. There are many engaged individuals as well as organisations out there who are instigators of better child protection. The issue concerns several proposals for amendments to the Child Protection Act, and the common feature of the proposed changes is that it should strengthen the legal certainty of children and parents. The government has announced that there will be a major change to the Child Protection Act, which will come next spring. The amendments proposed today are expected to be dealt with independently of the changes that will occur at a later date. Fortunately, today most children and families manage without the help of child protection and public aid, but we also know that it is those who need help. Studies show that the large number of cases are solved for the best of those involved, but there are also issues that do not resolve, and then it is important to ensure legal certainty for those involved. There are five changes in this case, and I will briefly review some of them. It is proposed, inter alia: introduction of the conversation process as a permanent arrangement in the counties. This project has had very good results where it has been implemented. The conversation process may lower the level of conflict between the Child Welfare Service and its parents and, last but not least, contribute to fewer coercive decisions. It is also proposed to increase the age limit for the right to protection, which I am particularly pleased because the Progress Party has worked for this for many years. For this reason, I would like to give a special thanks – although many people have been involved in the case – to the National Children's Protection Association, which has had this as one of its all, the most important things. The proposal that is perhaps the most controversial is the annual state reporting to the local government. It's absolutely high time that this is coming. It has not been discussed because there is disagreement about introducing such a requirement, but in the Committee there is some disagreement as to whether this should be regulated or not with regard to the reporting device. The majority of the Committee takes note of the appropriateness of a regulatory provision for reporting. In this way, the quality of the content is ensured while the reports are also comparable between municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1024	Welcome to the Deputy Minister for Children and Family Affairs! It is a nice first day in Stortinget to have such a good case. Thanks also to the case rapporteur for a good handling of this matter. The decisions we are making here today are important. I want to pay tribute to those who have worked for this: the National Children's Protection Association, the Children's Protection Professionals and employees' organisations, such as. has worked for extended post-protection limit for a long time. It has also been proposed in the past by the Workers’ Party – both the extension of the post-protection limit and the conversation process in the county municipalities. We have also proposed annual reporting to the local government. So these are proposals on which there is broad political agreement. We believe that the measures and decisions we take today will better address the challenges facing children and families. Still, I want to use the opportunity to point to some challenges. One is reporting. As the rapporteur said, there was a lot of discussion about this with reporting, whether it should be fixed or not. The Labour Party has landed at a regulatory party, but we are very concerned that the reporting should come from below. The quality objectives and how to organise reporting and the challenges facing the municipality must come from the user organisations and from service employees, so that it really reflects the needs of each municipality, and not the country’s need for a further report. It's very important for us – and that there should be a quality report on the basis. So to the other point that I want to point to. It's staff. Before we got the pandemic, there was a clear message that there was a shortage of employees, and it came from many teams, from user organisations and employees in the Children's Ombudsman, from the Heirs campaign, etc. The government has not listened to them, but nevertheless, in its own consultation opinion on child protection competence in March this year, it writes that this lack of capacity and the tourover can go beyond quality and be a failure of child protection services. It is quite serious that a government itself says that this may be a failure, while at the time it has not been willing to do anything to correct this problem and thus ensure that there are more employees in child protection. That's why I'm a little concerned that these proposals will be proposals that are very nice on paper, but as it becomes difficult to realize, because there is simply a lack of people out in the Child Welfare Service to follow up these good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1037	Will the representative address the proposal of which the Labour Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1042	That's what the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1047	The representative Kari Henriksen then drew up what the Labour Party proposal is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1052	It is nice to have an article in such an important matter with the temporary agency. Nice to see her here. This proposition proposes necessary and correct changes to the Child Protection Act. There will be a conversation process – I'll say more about it afterwards, but there will now be a permanent arrangement in the council. It is proposed to increase the age limit for the right to follow-up protection to 25 years. Furthermore, better protection of hidden-addressed children is proposed and the introduction of an annual status report to each local government is proposed. When the state is going to take care of a child, it is one of the most invasive a country can do. Some care transfers are voluntary, but many also do without parents' consent. That's where the conversation process comes in. A conversation process is an alternative to dealing with compulsions in the counties and implies that the negotiator initiates discussions with the parties. Agreement between the parties shall be sought. The purpose of this process is to bring the parties together in order to gain a common understanding of facts or conflict themes. It shall improve communication and understanding, and shall also facilitate, for example: temporary arrangements. I think this is a big and important step in the right direction, simply to avoid some appeals and see if you can get voluntary solutions. I am very happy that this is now allowed into law. The National Association for Children’s Protection and the Change Factory of the Child Protection Professionals has also been very concerned with the best interests of the child and that the best interests of the child should be taken care of at all stages. Many children and young people need to follow-up for a long time, and it is a pleasure that aftercare is now required until 25 years of age. The Granavolden Declaration proposed that the age limit be raised, precisely to prevent children who have experienced care failure from falling outside the scope of young adults. The proposal has received broad support in the consultation, and it is closely related to the government's clear objectives of reducing exclusion among young adults. The proposal will help to strengthen post-employment protection and improve the follow-up to schooling that may be lost, to get used to living in your own apartment or simply to having a firm and secure environment around you. I am very pleased that what is going to apply in the new law that comes, is also being adopted now, because this is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1065	The centre party welcomes the proposals contained in the proposal. We as a party have the front for a while, and we are, of course, very happy that it is adopted today. It is essential that young people with child protection experience be guaranteed good child protection measures after 18 years of age, so that they are given good help in their transition to adult life. But we react, like the KS, to the fact that the government does not propose to extend the state's liability for post-protection. The central party considers that the State must participate and contribute financially to this measure, for an extension of the age limit will not automatically lead to the maintenance of the quality of the after-sales protection, at least not if the local economy is tight. We are therefore promoting, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, proposals that the State should have a payment responsibility for the after-sales protection and that it should be extended. The requirement for annual reporting from the child protection system to the local council is an important step in ensuring that the local council gets insight and knowledge about the state of child protection. There is already an established practice in some municipalities, and these have good experience in this. I record that several hearing bodies were concerned that requirements for the design and content of the reporting were being imposed. The whole purpose of it is to strengthen the local authority's governance of child protection services, and then it can certainly be useful with some guidance as to what such a report should or should contain, so that we get the desired effects in line with the intentions of the proposal. The centre party, as I said, supports the changes in the proposition, and that's because it's going to improve our child protection. We will continue to be active drivers of this kind of individual improvements in the law in this field and support the government's work in it. But we are equally very concerned that we need a comprehensive review of the whole area of child protection as quickly as possible, carried out by an independent review committee, as we in the Centre Party proposed in a representative proposal last Tuesday. It is to look at how we can improve the whole system as a whole, in order to find better ways to organise the whole field, to ensure that the legal security of both children and families is better taken care of, to find even better ways to organise and practice the work of employees who have this important but very demanding job, and to provide even better conditions for foster homes and foster children – not least to ensure that the principle of the best interests of children is always respected. There are too many children who are trapped and need child protection, then they will have it. Then it must not be the way the NRK revealed this week, that a 14-year-old boy in Nordland got much worse when the child protection took responsibility for him. It is unacceptable, and we politicians have to be willing to do everything we can to avoid that happening – also to examine ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1080	This is essentially a good change in the Child Protection Act, which has been called for. These include: positive with increased use of the conversation process in the counties. But there, as in all other changes to the law, it is very important that this be done on the premises of children with the participation of children. The Ministry assesses whether a regulation is to be made on the participation of children in the conversation process, and until it is simply to say that the department can only invite the children immediately and let them contribute to the design of such a regulation, because it is necessary. Another key feature of this amendment is the introduction of state reporting requirements to local government. Unfortunately, among child-restraint workers, there is a rather common view that the involvement of politicians locally in child-restraint is only possible when the service is over-budgeted. It gives a sad picture of politicians' involvement locally, although of course it does a lot of good. That's why I hope this requirement will give more understanding and more commitment to what I think is the most important service we have, namely the protection of children. But from other parts of well-being, we have learned that reporting requirements themselves are not necessarily a solution to anything. Clearly, more resources are needed for municipal child protection — it suggests SV — but we also need to ensure that the most important thing is reported properly. It is therefore appropriate that the majority of the Committee should note that several hearing bodies request a regulation requiring reporting to be carried out. The most important thing in such reporting is, of course, the children's own perception of child protection in their municipality. Children’s voices must be actively collected, so that local politicians know what the children themselves think about the service to protect exactly them. In addition, it is important to listen to the employees’ warning that numbers and statistics do not always give a proper picture of the service. To achieve this, local government needs qualitative knowledge, not just quantitative statistics and figures. Finally, it's just to rejoice that the government has finally listened and proposed the right to follow-up protection for children who have been in child protection, up to 25 years old. The children's protection children have fought for this for many years, and SV proposed it in the Stortinget no later than 2018. However, in an already pressed child protection service with too few employees, the government is moving towards extending the State liability for post-protection. That's $24 million. kr per year. It can mean a lot to the person who needs help, and it can mean a lot to the municipality, who wants to make a good offer, but the government can't afford it. I think that's petty. The whole point of extending the right to follow-up protection is to give young adults a better offer than today. Then we have to use the resources that are needed, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1093	It is important to know your own life story and know what has happened from childhood to adult life. Human identity is usually built around life's history, and it can be very painful if parts of this story are missing, which unfortunately is often the case in children who have experienced failure to care for their upbringing. It is important for the children of today that they, as adults, can look back at the grips of their childhood, and experience them as right and fair afterlife. That is why I am pleased that the government is now working for a child protection law that will have the child at the centre of the decisions and provide increased legal certainty. Child care needs can last much longer than they are 18 years old. There is still a need to call when friends fail, the girlfriend breaks up or the washing machine stops working, someone to seek advice from when you're going to go to college and university — at all — have someone behind when life goes wrong. It is particularly important for those children who have experienced various forms of care failure. That's why we in the Christian People's Party are happy that we are now raising the age limit for posterity, so that fewer of these are at risk of falling outside society as adults. There are very many competent, competent and engaged child protection workers working in municipalities throughout Norway who do their best to ensure that our children are brought up well and safely. Our job as politicians is to give them the tools they need to succeed. A state report can be such a useful step to help local authorities better understand how they can support, follow up and give the best possible priority to resources. Bufdir has also created a user-based guide to help with reporting. In this way, we can increase the legal certainty and quality of care provision across local borders for children. Another important point in the proposition is the conversation process in the senses. Unfortunately, we all too often see that the level of conflict is becoming high in terms of takeovers, especially when they are made by force. For all parties, it is important to lower the level of conflict and to ensure that the process is as gentle as possible for the child and parents. Care takeovers are one of the most interventional measures in the country's family, and then we have to meet the family with trust and respect. Strengthening the conversation processes is an important step in precisely this. Outdoors, mental disorders, traumatic experiences — care failure has a very significant impact on both society and the individual human being who experiences it. A good childhood, on the other hand, has great positive ringing effects, and therefore we in the Christian People's Party will do everything we can to make sure that children get just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1109	The next speaker is State Councillor Ida Lindtveit Røse, and we'll welcome her to the Stockholm Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1114	Thank you for that. I am very pleased that a total increase supports changes in the Child Protection Act. Children in need of child protection are in a particularly vulnerable situation. It is absolutely vital that the children and their families get the help they need, not least when they need it. This is how we can better prevent, and the proposals adopted today are therefore important. As Stortinget is familiar with, it aims to promote a new child protection law next spring. The proposals contained in this proposal are proposals where it has been desirable and also possible with a faster time cycle. Trials show that the conversation process has been a good alternative to the ordinary process in the counties. It can provide better understanding between the parties and contribute to a lower level of conflict. I am pleased that the Committee supports the introduction of a long-term dialogue process. Most young people need help with the transition to adult life. And so do those who have child protection experience. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to extend the age limit for the right to follow-up to 25 years. I have noticed that the minority will also extend Bufetat's payment liability for places in a child protection institution and specialised foster homes. Today, municipalities pay only a proportion of the costs of such measures for young people under 20 years of age, and in my opinion, the current age limit should remain. The purpose of post-protection is precisely to provide support for an independent adult life. In the context of after-care, child protection services must ensure good cooperation with other services, so that young people are given proper help after such specialised measures. The local authority must be close to its own child protection service, so that they can see the overall services offered by the municipality to children and young people as a whole. Annual status reporting requirements will help to ensure that the quality and staffing situation of each child protection service will be regularly assessed by the local government. With the amendments adopted today, we will strengthen legal certainty and contribute to better protection of the most vulnerable children. This is one of many measures to improve child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1136	The government's initiative now has cross-political support and is largely a follow-up to the issues raised earlier in the Storting. It has not been lacking in government councils which, during their daily lives, have expressed concerns about vulnerable children. Therefore, it is not possible to believe that there has been no follow-up and suggested strengthening child protection services with several professionals. The post-crisis crisis package has arrived, and the same has been revised national budgets, without strengthening child protection. In the consultation note that I referred to, it is said that lack of capacity and high turnovers can be an important cause of failure in the child protection service. Further reference is made to studies showing that 40 pst. of the members of staff who have been employed for only three years or less and that close to one in five persons added during the year. Does the Council agree that vulnerable children and their families need reinforced child protection and that municipal child protection employees need more colleagues?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1145	I agree that it is important that children under the protection of the child are taken good care of in the municipality. That is exactly why I am also pleased that the crew situation has increased by 1 300 new jobs in the period 2013-2018. The figures for 2019 will be available in July. There is now an important future work on new child protection laws, precisely to ensure that children and young people will be better cared for in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1152	The positions referred to – we have been through many times, but this Council of State has not been in – we have discussed them before, and they have largely come with the background of decisions here in the Stortinget, which the Christian People's Party was in the past, but not after they entered the government. We have also just received a report that shows that children are being sent out of the country because their parents are afraid of child protection. It is a serious mistrust signal to the Child Welfare Service, and there is no child in Norway to experience. Government council Ropstad has claimed that with several employees it is a good idea from the opposition. But when the government refers to this as a cause for failure in the child protection service, which also affects the problem of legal certainty, which was up: what makes this resistance to improving trust not to be about posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1159	First, I would like to say that no children will experience – as we have learned examples – being sent out of the country in that way. I think this is about better skills. The level of competence that we are also engaged in in child protection is important in order not to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1164	I would, of course, also like to take the opportunity to welcome the Council of State to Norway's most important and beautiful hall! The problem I want to raise today concerns a comment in the position, which the majority fortunately stood behind, and it concerns those who are now 23 years old and who will fall out of post-protection until the law comes into force. The majority of the committee has written that we: ‘will pay particular attention to young people in the field of child protection who are 23 years old and need further follow-up and will ask the Ministry to consider how these can be achieved before the new law enters into force’. Can the Council of State explain how she intends to follow up this remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1176	It will be very important in the future for us to just take care of these children, between today's situation and before the amendment of the law comes into force. We'll get back to how we're going to follow up on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1181	I would also like to welcome the new Council of State, including: to work with us in a field in which this committee is very committed. And as the rapporteur said, we agree that we need to improve the situation in child protection. Fortunately, many in the Committee have been in favour of the proposal for a representative that I mentioned from the Chair in the meantime, namely a comprehensive examination of the protection of children by an independent body. That matter gets the Council of State on the table this summer, and I hope that the Council of State will be positive to it. So to the matter today: How can the Council of State guarantee that the post-protection will be good enough for quality when it does not follow the money – unlike if it had followed state money with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1188	The extension of the right to follow-up protection to 25 years is estimated at around 24 million. NOK in additional expenditure of the municipalities. This is what we want to cover. Therefore, the entry into force of the legislative amendment requiring changes in appropriations will be a return to the ordinary budgetary procedure. Municipalities are to be compensated for the 24 million. NOK in additional expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1194	Welcome to the Electoral Council! I hope the demand for state reporting to the local government will give more understanding and more commitment to what I believe is the most important service we have, the protection of children. We know that it's not always that what can be counted, and what really counts, is the same thing. Therefore, the device for this reporting is very important. Of course, the most important thing in such reporting is the child’s own perception of child protection services. Their voices must be collected, so that local politicians know what the children themselves think about the service, which is precisely about these children. How does the Council of State think that children's votes should be well expressed in this report, especially when the government does not want to make a regulation on content requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1203	The requirement for annual status reporting to the local government should contribute to improving the governance and management of the child protection service by municipalities. We have proposed that Bufdir develop a web-based guide to assist municipalities so that municipalities can better adapt this reporting based on their situation. It is also the case that the head of the Child Protection Service shall have a central role in the preparation of this reporting. I have to add that the participation of the children in child protection is absolutely central to ensuring the legal security of children and getting an assessment of what is best for children. So I want children's votes to be included in the reporting. It is ensured through this guide and that different consideration can be given to the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1210	Then you'll have the cord shift over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1217	Today, we are debating proposals for amendments to the Child Protection Act. As has been said here in the past, the aim of these changes is to strengthen legal certainty for children and parents. It is the municipality's top political and administrative management that has the overall responsibility for how the municipality cares for children and families who need assistance and assistance from the municipal child protection service. As we know, this country is long-term, with very different municipalities both in size, culture and the challenges each municipality has. But everyone has the same responsibility for the vulnerable children and the municipal child protection service. Since the municipalities are different, we know that child protection is also organised differently. In many cases, the service is organised as inter-municipal cooperation, and there is nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, it is absolutely necessary for many of the smallest municipalities, but it can lead to very different quality of child protection services from one municipality to another. That is why I am pleased that the department is now proposing to strengthen the municipality's overall governance with the municipal child protection service by introducing annual status reporting requirements from the Child Protection Agency to the local government. The right considers that a stronger local anchoring of child protection is important, both to better address local challenges and not least to ensure that all children and parents have the same legal certainty wherever they live in that country. The diversity and peculiarity of municipalities, the scale of intercommunal cooperation, and not least the consideration of the user groups in need of child protection assistance, call for the quality of the work of child protection to be placed on the agenda to a greater extent and be subject to debate and control of the municipality's top political and administrative management. This will improve the ability of the municipality to manage and review the Child Welfare Service, and many municipalities already have good practice in this area. With good practice and reporting, the municipality can better assess whether the quality and manning of their local child protection is good enough. The annual status report shall be prepared with information available through existing digital solutions and statistics at municipal and service level — in addition to a professional supervisor. And as has been said, Bufdir already has a proposal for an online guide to assist municipalities in reporting to the local government. This shall be capable of being adapted to local conditions. Finally, I am very pleased that the Department so clearly stresses that the head of the Child Welfare Service should be involved in this work. It will help to ensure that the annual status report is a real management tool for the top political and administrative management of the municipality. Unlike the opposition, I have great faith that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility without the need for regulatory confirmation of this reporting. As I said, many municipalities already have good practice in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1232	We've had a lot of child protection debates in this room in the last year, and that's good. There are 55,000 children who are helped annually by child protection, and 9 000 we actually take care of. So, unfortunately, from the reports in the media and others, we know that many of them are not doing well, and that our help measures are not good enough. They often come too late, but sometimes they also get too violent. The level of conflict is too high and trust is absent. That's why it's good to open up new solutions in the denominator, but it's really a defeat when you come to the denominator. The fact that good solutions have not been found before tells of a child protection system that is unable to create a good enough framework and dialogue with parents – although, of course, there are also situations where responsibility for this lies with parents. So this little amount of $24 million. kr in the year in which the State contributes to helping those who will have more extensive after-sales protection: it is estimated that for society it is worth 15 million. kr each time we help a youth into permanent work instead of permanent disability. That means that if this post-employment protection only helps two young people a year into work, we've got the entire budget back. So this is what the government is going to do. I don't understand what's going on with the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is going to go all the time after the weak – whether there's car support for disabled people, whether it's the child's supplement in the disability, or what it is, while having more than enough money for others, no later than 1.3 billion. kr i reduced taxes on wealth. On the other hand, the Financial Committee is set up and will use 250 billion. kr more of the oil wealth to help us through the crisis. It's 10,000 times more than this cut in child protection. We could pay this for 10,000 years for the sum that we're now spending in a year of crisis. It's small money for the state, it's small money on a state budget, it's big money for the people involved. And that's what Kari Henriksen says -- we have to follow up with positions, with education, with capacity, with competence and with money if we're serious about helping everyone and giving everyone a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1245	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but I have to say that the rhetoric of the representative Trond Giske sometimes – I shouldn't say that it is not suitable from the pulpit, but it is at least suitable for provoking. I thought the representative Trond Giske had read the matter. I thought he heard after when the Council of State spoke, and I thought he had come with me why you don't give the money until you actually have a budget, and before the law comes into force. That is because this extra money is intended to be used. And after I understood what the Council of State was up here and said, she gave a pretty clear message that that money is coming, but they come into the budget, as all the other money tends to do. The representative Trond Giske knows that very well, as he has been a major representative for quite many years, and has also been the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1252	It is good that the progress part gets the temperature up a little when it comes to its own situation. It would have been nice with the same temperature for the situation of others. The representative, Mr Heimdal, does not escape the fact that the Progress Party repeatedly in this Chamber votes in favour of budgets containing petty cuts to those sitting at the bottom of the table. It repeats itself in the case of disability, it repeats itself in the case of the local economy, it repeats itself in the case of families with children, it repeats again and again to those who have the least. And that's pretty much a little bit of money. Then you can say: Yes, but we trust the municipalities, we push it over to them, they are responsible. But if the pot that the municipalities have -- in sum -- is too small, it doesn't help if one or the other committee says we put that exact money in there, and we put that exact money there -- when the budget doesn't go up. We know who is affected when the budgets in the municipalities are too small. It's those who have the weakest voice, those who have the most difficulty being heard, and those who don't have strong lobby organizations behind them. And if there's one group in this community that's taken from that description, it's the children's protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1259	The Labour Party, at both Trond Giske's and Kari Henriksen's representatives, talks in their speeches about the importance of having confidence in child protection, but at the same time they do not contribute in any way to strengthening this trust. One example is the presentation last week. Then Kari Henriksen said that the government has refused to take on what she formulated as the major ‘management crisis and the system crisis that exists in child protection’, and that Ropstad defends the system and not the children who need to strengthen legal certainty. It's very dry, it's serious, because does Kari Henriksen think that we have a child and family minister who is more concerned with the system than with the children? If she does, she'll be wrong. The new Child Protection Act is precisely aimed at strengthening the legal security of children and putting children at the centre of the solutions. The proposals that we are debating here today are very good examples of changes that improve the system and thus also help children in child protection get a little better. I think the Workers' Party must take on board that these misguided statements contribute to weakening the trust in child protection. It benefits no one, and it benefits at the very least the vulnerable children and families. Although the Workers' Party is in opposition, they have a responsibility for strengthening the individual's confidence in child protection. It's a very bad thing to see that they're putting their own need to criticise that trust responsibility. I think we're going to have more debates on child protection in the year to come, and as the committee we know that precisely these issues relating to child protection are the most important issues that we as the committee are dealing with. I also think that we can have different views on priorities and which steps are best taken, but we really don't have to worry about each other's commitment or intentions. We can only say once and for all that all the representatives here, regardless of the party – and not least the Minister for Children and Family itself – are genuinely concerned that we need to do everything we can to strengthen and improve child protection. That's what I had on my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1274	I almost don't know where to start. This is not the first time representatives from the Christian People's Party have had strong accusations against the Workers' Party from this pulpit, and this is probably not the last. But I can answer the representative, Lossius, that I am not alone. It is not the representative of Kari Henriksen who brings the outrages to the government. The Children's Ombudsman has said during a budget hearing here in Stortinget that there is a governance crisis in child protection. The children’s protection and the Children’s Ombudsman have expressed serious concerns about the legal certainty of child protection. I share that concern. Time and again, the opposition has asked for a statement from the Council of State on the whole of child protection. First, the Council of State said no, but when criticism came in its own internal reports that showed great criticism of the follow-up of these children during the Korona crisis, the Council of State came to the fore – to defend itself in this Chamber with a statement to explain why there were so many judges in the EMD, and why there was so much failure during the Korona crisis. I don't know if it's to calm down, or if it's to provoke, but it's at least so that the Workers' Party is not at all alone about the criticism promoted against the Council of State. When I said that the Council of State seems to be more concerned with defending the system than defending the children, it was with the background of all the proposals that the Government Parties and the Council of State have said no to here. The rhetoric has been repeating. They're holding on to it. They won't. We had a proposal for quality reform in child protection here – there were many proposals, and the Council of State did not say that one of them was wrong. The Council of State itself has now issued a consultation report where the Council of State itself suggests that there may be a link between the issue of legal security and the lack of staff. But does he listen to it? Does the government listen to that? It does not seem that way, and that is what this political debate is about. It is not about the representative of Kari Henriksen who is speaking here from the pulpit. It is about real policy priorities related to child protection that differ from the opposition to the position. The opposition will therefore go further and will do more to strengthen legal certainty and ensure that children receive a child protection service that they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1285	I don't doubt a great commitment to the child protection of all 169 representatives, but kids who need help don't live by our commitment, they live by our actions, by what we actually do. Politics is not about us in this room and what might happen inside of us, it's about people's lives and how we can do it better. When Kari Henriksen and I refer to the lack of trust, it is not we who express it, it is people who express it. The lack of legal certainty is not what we express, it's what people express it. We even consulted here and heard the story of her who had replaced foster home 17 times – I guess – in 18 years. We hear numbers telling us that the suicide rate among child-restraints is multiple in relation to what it is among others. That's what this is all about, making people's lives better, and then it helps engagement, but it helps most with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1292	Yes, that's what we're doing now. We adopt five important points in a child protection law – that is action – and these are points on which we in the committee actually agree. Then there's a matter of budget. Everyone knows that the budgets will be revised or entered in the State budget, and that is why this law will apply from 1 January 2021. However, the Council of State has also said here, and the Committee has asked that measures be assessed already for those who will fall under new law. I expect then that you have the opportunity to redispatch to initiate measures. I think this is going to be a bit of a skin debate, and I don't think it's worth it if we start approaching a tax debate. This is a debate about improving the law we have, and that we are actually now able to improve it, even if we have to wait for a whole new law to come. Then we have also decided in Stortinget that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should be incorporated into both the Children's Act and the Children's Protection Act. This means that children are to be informed, children are to be heard, and it will also apply in what is now to be prescribed, this with the conversation process. I think it will also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1304	The representative of Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius has spoken twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1309	I just wanted to briefly remind the representative Henriksen that not only the Christian People's Party, but also the Children's Ombudsman himself have expressed concern that Kari Henriksen is continuously and in a very unfortunate way presenting his criticism of child protection, and the consequences it will have for those children and the families that this trust is weakening.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1314	The representative, Kari Henriksen, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1319	It was a useful case information, because the Children's Ombudsman has not told me. But it's nice to have it forwarded by the representative Gleditsch Lossius here in the hall. It's true that today is a happy day, we all agree on that. But it is not possible to say that tax policy is not about child protection, although it is not the debate here today. I just wanted to say that. For fiscal policy and the general policy of giving priority to those who have the most, rather than those who have the least, it is essential that differences increase. That's what we see. But I'm not going to involve any more policy in this, because I totally agree with Mr. Johnsen that this is a good day, that's good suggestions. But we can't have it this way that we're just going to discuss single things and things without being able to point to the whole of a policy from the Stortinge pulpit. It's going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1326	I believe that when we first discuss child protection, we as representatives must have the opportunity to express ourselves on it in all sorts of ways, even though it is not always the specific matter we are discussing, because this is so important. Once we've got a bill that issues whether the funding of post-protection is in place by the state, one has to understand that when I, for example, who can ask the Council of State questions in the line-point exchange if you can get guarantees that money will come to that after-protection of the municipalities from the state, only I get the answer that they should look at it in the budget, we who are concerned that this money will come, can't tell us satisfied with it. The government parties and the Progress Party must understand that is not a good enough answer, because we have not been able to confirm it, and we want it. So how do we discuss child protection: I fully understand that many from different sides who work in different parts of child protection, or who are in contact with child protection, are concerned about how we talk about child protection. It's really hard. I find it difficult myself, I find it difficult to point out that much is happening that is wrong, without at the same time being afraid to bore those who are struggling with a demanding job, for example, on their toes. But we have to say that things are wrong when it is. I have also heard the Children's Ombudsman talk about whether the system is wrong, as the representative Kari Henriksen says. Even I am very uncertain whether you are properly structured in child protection, as all the revelations, reports and hearing bodies now point to. I don't think we're doing this case a favor if we're most concerned about pointing out who's talking wrong about this, but I think we're all going to be very aware of how we're talking about the challenges of child protection. But that we have to be allowed to come up with criticism without being accused of at the same time destroying too much for the field, I hope we can agree. Then I look forward to having all these debates in the future, because that is absolutely necessary. It is also absolutely necessary for us as representatives – not only us in the opposition, but also those in the position of this committee – to be critical of everything that is happening in the field of child protection, all the time it is the challenges that are, and the commitment is so great. I wish everyone luck with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1343	It is difficult not to give any thought to what has now become the debate on child protection, because it is important, and so far this debate has been said a lot that is quite strange. There's a big and important reason to actually defend child protection, it's a task that we in this room also have. It is absolutely incredible what child-restraint workers experience from the heat, harassment and threats, especially in recent months, as there has been a lot of focus on the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. So we have a responsibility to take care of the employees when we express our opinion. This responsibility applies not least to the children as well. I get clear insights from children's protection that also the way we adults and politicians talk about child protection, and with that also the children who are in child protection, they know the body – how we express ourselves, what words we use. But none of what I said now is a reason not to criticise the government's policy in the field of child protection. That's obviously something completely different. That is why I am disappointed, because when, for example, the representative, Gleditsch Lossius. confuses these two things and uses the defence we need for child protection, as a defense against criticism of government policy, it becomes much harder for us all to stand by this. I hope that all members of the Committee and all representatives will call for the defence of the system of protection of children under pressure, but at the same time want to find better solutions, find a better policy, so that children are better cared for. This is why – and not least that employees get to do their job in a better way than they do today. Then there's a lot to choose from. We've been into some of it in this case, because it's clear that when you extend the responsibilities and obligations of the Child Protection Service without providing clear guarantees that the funding will also come along, it's actually quite serious. Although we are talking about small money now, we know that the obligations and tasks of the Child Protection Service have only been expanded without the resources being included. It happens over and over again. And what do the employees say? Well, they say they don't have time to see and help each and every child. When we extend the right to follow-up protection and finally listen to children's protection, it should not be because it should be on paper that you have the right to follow-up protection until you are 25 years old. That is not what this is all about. It is about improving the offer for these young adults. That is why it is a very timely criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1369	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1376	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation in this matter as well. The Government has submitted proposals for the system of digital hazard declaration and the Committee supports the proposal. With these changes, we're actually a little bit closer to getting the digital everyday life. The current system of determining fatherhood is three-thirds. For those cases where danger is not determined automatically, as is done for children born in marriage, manual routines such as: bureaucrat. The proposal under consideration today will lead to simplification and, hopefully, will also lead to much greater efficiency. This efficiency is intended to benefit public authorities, but perhaps most importantly, this applies to users themselves. At the same time, it is appropriate to point out that such a digital declaration of hazard cannot or should not be introduced in all cases. This is well explained in the proposal by the government, but also in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1387	When married couples have children, the fatherhood of the child follows directly by law. For parents who are not married, danger is determined in other ways. The most common thing is that fatherhood is established by the mother stating who is father, and that he declares the fathership in writing by personal presence, often in connection with pregnancy control or in the hospital right after birth. If the father does not declare the danger while the child is on the road or at birth, he must visit a Nav office or a tax office later. In order to be able to use a solution that allows the digital declaration of danger, the Code on the Declaration of Dangers must be made technology-neutral. I therefore propose to amend the Children's Act so that the law does not prevent fatherhood from being declared digitally. In some cases, for example: where the child is born abroad, the current system is maintained, where dad signs on paper at face-to-face. I am pleased that the Committee has joined this proposal, which means that danger can be declared digitally and that places the user in the centre. I would also agree with the Committee when it points out that written declaration and digital declaration must be regarded as equally secure for this purpose. However, when an amendment to the Children’s Act is adopted today, only the first step is to offer parents a digital solution. The most important work remains. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has started work on the development of technical solutions for digitisation of the certificate of proficiency to be offered to parents. The tax base is planned to develop functionality for the receipt of the certificate and registration in the public register during 2021. This legislative amendment proposal contributes to the achievement of the government’s objectives of more accessible and digitised public services. The development of the digital solution will be based on the needs of users and will provide a simpler and more timely offer to parents. In addition, it will facilitate the efficiency of public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1417	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1424	I would also like to begin by congratulating the Constituent Council of State on her new role and on being the youngest state council in Norway. I would also like to thank the Committee on good cooperation and rapid progress in this matter. This is a proposition which is that the burial law should again permit the construction and burial of an urn wall, i.e. an ashtray being stored or walled in a closed niche in a wall or a construction work. It is also proposed that the Tombs Act provide legal support for the municipality to set charges for the use of anonymous means of memory, the name of memory and the wall of urine. Finally, it is proposed to repeal the provision of Section 10, first paragraph of the Act, that cremation «may occur unless it is known that it was contrary to the wishes of the deceased», so that cremation and coffin burial are legally treated by this amendment. Already today, excavations are taking place in the urn wall of Norway. This is in installations that were established before the prohibition of such installations came into place. In municipalities where such facilities do not exist, there is mainly burial in coffins or reduction of urns in force. The proposal we are discussing here will allow local excavation authorities to install new urns where there is a local desire to do so. This is how this possibility will be opened up too much more than today. The parties to the committee have agreed that self-determination for the deceased and the deceased is in itself one of the main arguments for wanting to accept this. There has been a broad consensus in the Committee on Most of the Content, but the Centre Party and SV have opposed the latest change that I mentioned. I think I'll stop there and rather take the floor if there's a bigger debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1437	I just want to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. In the case of the last point he read up, the Workers' Party has fallen out of the comment by an incurrency. So we're going to have to agree with the Center Party and SV to cancel Section 10, first paragraph. Then it's signaled here from the pulpit. So I just want to say that it's a good thing, and it's important that we've got these changes in the gravitational law now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1446	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Politics is about facilitating everything and everyone, from cradle to grave, and this matter is about the last. But the exposure doesn't get smaller for that reason. About 250 consultation replies came to the department when this law was out for consultation. As former local politicians and rapporteur, I can confirm that we have had many debates relating to tombs and tombs, and I also see that Moss's church council is among those who have participated in the hearing this time. Together with several instances, they point out that it is generally considered to be positive to use several types of digging. Norwegian Association for Burial Culture believes this is a good proposal that can represent an enrichment of the burial site culture. The Ministry proposes in the proposal that the burial law should again permit the construction and burial in the turret. This is supported by an overall committee, as the rapporteur said. At the same time, the majority of the committee argues that an urn wall can save space in the graveyard, but that land saving is not a main argument for the bill. A Joint Committee considers that self-determination for the deceased and the deceased is itself the best argument for allowing the wall of urine. However, several hearing bodies highlight the need for future land-saving solutions as a supporting argument for the proposal. For example, Bergen expresses church councils: ‘The major urban municipalities face challenges in relation to the land needs of future tombs. There is considerable pressure on available land in central areas, and BKF is actively working to allocate burial sites as part of the infrastructure when planning new urban areas. Nevertheless, we see that developments need to move towards less land-intensive digging forms in the future, and even if this development will slow down, we do not want the law to slow down natural development as long as the interests of dignity and equivalency are safeguarded." The only disagreement within the Committee concerns, as I said, the legal regulation of coffin burial and cremation. The first paragraph of Section 10 of the Gravferdsgesetz today lays down a condition for cremation: «Cremation may occur unless it is known that it was contrary to the wishes of the deceased.» This provision can be read in such a way that the law considers coffin burial to be the primary way of digging. This provision can also be read in such a way that the law presupposes the possibility of reluctance to cremation, while the corresponding reluctance to coffin burial is not made visible. For the Right part, we therefore support the repeal of the burial law § 10, first paragraph, and thus assimilate cremation and coffin burial legally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1466	I'm not going to be long, but I'm going to tell you that the Center Party supports the main content of the proposition. We see that there is absolutely a need to update the law, which I have experienced with experience in local policy when I have been in the Joint Council. That's good, important action we're adopting today. However, we in the Centre Party will not support the proposal to repeal the first paragraph of Section 10, i.e. where it says: «Cremation may occur unless it is known that it was contrary to the wishes of the deceased.» The Centre Party believes that the presumption of coffin burial has not prevented cremation, and for this reason we cannot see that it is necessary to remove this wording. We believe that the provision in Section 10 will ensure that the wish of the deceased not to be cremated is respected. Although I myself and many others want cremation or do not have strong opinions about whether to cremate them or not, many people still have strong opinions about it. They want to be excavated in the way that has been traditional, and we in the Center Party will therefore not help to deprive them of the opportunity to reserve themselves for cremation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1475	Projections from the SSB show that the number of deaths in Norway will increase significantly over the next decades. The Norwegian population is more diverse than it has been, and there is a need for legislation to take account of this diversity, including in the area of digging. An action in response to these societal changes is to facilitate several legislative options for burial. We have proposed that local excavation authorities who so wish be given the opportunity to build and offer this type of burial site. The amendment of the legislation does not impose an obligation to offer the type of burial site, and therefore the setting-up of the site will be optional for the burial site authorities. As the majority of the Committee points out, today this type of burial is possible in some places in the country in urns existing under older legislation. The construction of new uranium walls will result in the excavating option being available for far more than is currently the case. In addition, municipalities are allowed to set a levy for urns. The same form of charging regulation is also proposed for anonymous and named memories. In many places today, payment is made for such memoranda, and this fee should be allowed by law. In addition, we have proposed to remove a wording of the gravitational law that establishes a special condition for cremation without imposing the corresponding condition for coffin burial. Cremation is a common tomb form in Norway, and the cremation rate is increasing steadily year by year. In 2019, the number of cremations was 44 pst. Today the law says that cremation can happen unless it is known that this was contrary to the wishes of the deceased. Today’s legislation suggests that coffin burial is the preferred way of digging, while cremation appears to be the exception. This constitutes inappropriate discrimination. I believe, like the majority of the committee, that the wording must be removed. This will contribute to the neutral appearance of legislation, without an assumed preference for one type of excavating against the other. The Gravferdsgesetz currently has a fundamental provision that burial is to be carried out in respect of the religion or view of life of the deceased. The removal of discrimination in legislation will not imply a material change in the legal situation and it will clarify the starting point: that burial should be carried out in line with the wishes of the deceased, if known, regardless of whether the counter-representation applies on a case-by-case basis in the case of cremation or coffin burial.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1490	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1507	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1514	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a fast and highly efficient process. It is supported by an overall committee. The reason for bringing together the complaint handling offer in the Consumer Protection Authority is to facilitate more effective review procedures and better coordination. In addition, the Consumer Council will be refurbished as a consumer interest organisation. Today, the Consumer Council has a dual role: on the one hand, the Council shall be the consumer's spokesman and stakeholder organisation; on the other hand, it shall offer neutral mediation in complaints between consumers and traders. The reasons for the merger and transfer of the complaint handling offer to the Consumer Oversight are further addressed in the Notice. St. 25 for 2018–2019, Future consumption – green, smart and digital. The Committee takes note of the fact that 12 hearing bodies have delivered opinions. The majority of these end up with most of the proposed changes. The Committee also notes the importance of an organisational distinction between the supervision of consumers and the handling of complaints by the majority of the hearing bodies. The main points of the proposal are to ensure an organisational distinction between the supervision and handling of complaints by the Consumer Protection Authority and to legislate that consumer supervision is professionally independent even when dealing with consumer complaints, and that merging the mediation and the preparation of the case to the Consumer Complaint Committee within a single body offers the potential to achieve a more efficient procedure. The legislative proposal also proposes to regulate the types of cases to be dealt with by the Consumer Protection Authority and the Consumer Complaints Committee through regulations. The proposal for a new law essentially involves legal technical changes as a result of the reorganisation. The decision to merge the review procedure and the proposal to eliminate unnecessary procedural requirements will facilitate less duplication and more effective review procedures. This could mean a reduction in the time taken to deal with complaints, which is obviously positive for both consumers and traders, and for the public, a faster and more efficient procedure will provide for more resource-efficient complaint handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1529	Good consumer rights are essential for people to feel secure when buying a good or service. This proposition contributes to increasing consumer rights by clearing up the dual role of the Consumer Council by, on the one hand, being the consumer's spokesman and stakeholder organisation and, on the other hand, offering neutral mediation in complaints between consumers and traders. This new law helps to strengthen consumer confidence in the Consumer Council and thus consumer rights. The Consumer Council has an important role to play in influencing authorities and markets and providing information and assistance to consumers. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that this amendment clarifies the role of the Consumer Council towards consumers. This clean-up also provides for more effective review procedures and better coordination as review procedures are to be brought together with consumer supervision. Consumer supervision shall seek written or oral guidance and advice to find solutions acceptable to the parties. There is also reason to believe that more effective review procedures can lead to shorter procedural time, which in turn benefits the consumer. We need a continuous assessment of whether consumer law is good enough, and a distinction between helpers and brokers moves us in the right direction. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have legislation and a framework that creates security when consumers trade services and goods, and that they know where to turn when a purchase has gone wrong. We know, for example. that a home purchase can become a nightmare if you are not protected by a good law. We also know that differences in social developments create an increasing need to strengthen the knowledge, interests and rights of consumers relating to sustainable consumption, marketing, housing, debt and credit, as well as to strengthen the rights and privacy of the digital economy. We are constantly being challenged in this field, because an increasing number of apps to make everyday life more user-friendly also have an unfortunate side effect by being able to reduce overall consumer rights and not least the right of individuals to privacy. I'm glad we have an overall committee behind this position. It is important that we stand strongly together across the party boundaries on consumer rights in this matter and in future cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1542	The government has submitted proposals for a new law on the treatment of consumer complaints in the Consumer Authority and Consumer Complaints Committee. The law shall regulate the entire review process, from the consumer to the Consumer Protection Authority, until a decision is taken by the Consumer Complaints Committee. In January 2019, the government presented the decision to restructure the consumer appliance. The complaint handling offer, which is currently with the Consumer Council and the Secretariat of the Consumer Complaints Committee, shall be transferred to the Consumer Authority. The aim is to facilitate more efficient and coordinated review procedures. In addition, with this change, the Consumer Council will be cultivated as a consumer interest organisation. The legislative proposal facilitates the implementation of these changes. It is central that the new Consumer Protection Authority carries out supervision and review procedures in an efficient and trusting manner. In my opinion, consumer supervision is the closest way to assess the efficiency measures that work, while at the same time ensuring trust and legal certainty in the review process. Therefore, the government does not propose to regulate the internal organisation of consumer supervision, but will closely monitor the organisation through the supervisory management dialogue. The Government proposes that the applicable complaint handling rules for mediation be continued in the new Consumer Complaints Act. However, the government proposes some legislative changes to the complaints procedure in the Consumer Complaints Committee. The Government also proposes to amend the rules governing the service of appeals and decisions by the Consumer Complaints Committee and the rules for calculating the time limit for bringing a case from the Consumer Complaints Committee to the Court of Justice. Overall, these changes will contribute to faster and more effective review procedures. The reorganisation of the consumer appliance shall take place on 1 January 2021. The new Consumer Inspectorate will then be in place in new premises in Grenland. The activities are in an extra demanding situation as a result of the corona epidemic, but we are about to comply with the timetable for the reorganisation. Once the reorganisation has been completed, we will be left with a more efficient and powerful consumer apparatus with more clarified roles between businesses. With the new organisation, the consumer apparatus will be well equipped to protect consumers’ interests in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1561	The size now takes a break, and it's going to be voting at 4:00 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1582	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 11–15 on Wednesday’s map and on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1670	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1683	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1699	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1704	It'll be corrected. – The title of the law and the law as a whole were approved by 54 votes to 34. The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1901	It is contested by I, § 49. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1913	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1923	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1933	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e1996	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2006	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2094	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2104	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The cancellation will then go to voting on the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2118	In the course of the debate, Mr Wilkinson presented a legislative proposal on behalf of the Health and Welfare Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Note: Under A, the following provision is assumed to be amended as follows: III The second sentence is replaced by the following: The person born by means of semen donated before the entry into force of the amendments to the Biotechnology Act § 2-7, second paragraph, is not entitled to information on the identity of the donor until after the age of 18.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2131	Therefore, the comment to the Law Decision 104 is supported. The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be taken until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2142	Case No. 2 and 3 are the second processing of laws and relate to legislation 105 and 106. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2156	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 5, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6 and 7, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that exemptions from the protection of arable land and arable land be granted only by a national planning authority.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2191	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the laws on soil which provide real protection for arable land through a substantial reduction of the possibility of exemptions from the general requirement that cultivated and arable land not be used for purposes other than food production.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2208	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines a new soil protection target for maximum re-disposal of 1000 deches annually by 2026.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2225	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines a new soil protection target for maximum re-disposal of 2000 covers annually by 2026.’» The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2243	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines a new soil protection target for maximum redisposal of 3000 deches per year by 2026.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2267	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a new soil protection strategy with measures to achieve the new soil protection objective’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target for the re-disposal of arable land, as well as measures that will reduce the consumption of edible land by agriculture’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2293	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2298	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2303	And then we'll fix it. 47 representatives voted in favour of the Committee's position and 41 representatives voted in favour of the proposal by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left. The setting is thus concocted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2387	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2397	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2409	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Geir Adelsten Iversen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Geir Adelsten Iversen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 2, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, have changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider increasing efforts to deal with the unregistered king crab fish.’ There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to modify the conditions for participation in king crab fishing in the quotad area of East Finland. [[east of 26° E]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2442	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2447	Then it straightens out. – The proposal from the Workers' Party and the Senter Party was not accepted by 50 votes to 38. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks it to maintain today’s requirements for activity in royal crab fish.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2468	The President voted against the proposal. The proposal was therefore rejected with the President's double vote. There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider increasing efforts to deal with the unregistered king crab fish.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2485	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for both a model to be opened in order to extend the quota to West Finland and a system to provide fishing vessels registered in West Finland’s quotas for fishing in East Finland’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2518	Behind the setting are the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2539	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the extension of State responsibility for after-sales protection up to the age of 25’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2680	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2690	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2751	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2761	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2873	It is contested by Section I, Section 10, first paragraph. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2887	The remainder of I and II to IV are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2897	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e2907	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e3490	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e3500	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-04.ana.ud288e3525	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
