ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e48	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Morten Stordalen on 18 and 19 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Ellen Eriksen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e68	Ellen Eriksen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Lise Christoffersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e75	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Rigmor Aasrud, Arild Grande, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and myself to make a proposal on equality between married couples, registered partners and cohabitants in the case of survivors' and spouses' rights in public and private occupational pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e80	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e85	I am delighted, on behalf of the representatives of Sandra Borch, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Jenny Klinge and myself, to present a proposal for a representative on local participation and transparency in wind power matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e90	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e95	On behalf of the representatives of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Kjersti Toppe, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to amend the coordination law in order to abolish the coordination case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e100	The representative of Mr Åsunn Lyngedal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e106	On behalf of the representatives of Ruth Grung, Espen Barth Eide, Runar Seestad, Steinar Karlstrøm, Torstein Tvedt Solberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for the development of a comprehensive infrastructure for shore-side electricity and alternative fuels in all major ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e111	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e116	On behalf of the major representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the protection of nature in wind turbines. I ask that it be dealt with according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 39c.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e121	The representative of Mr Ingvild Kjerkol will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e126	On behalf of Tuva Moflag, Tellef Inge Mørland, Tore Hagebakken, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to strengthen Norwegian intensive capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e131	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e152	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e168	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e175	I would like to start by thanking the Committee on Cooperation in this major and important matter, at a time of slightly different working conditions. We have used all the technical tools, conducted the digital consultation and stayed with a large negotiating room. Even with six parties in the negotiating room in the interview, it's been one meter physical distance and sometimes two meters political distance. Although there has sometimes been a bit of a leap forward in the negotiations, today there is a large and broad majority in favour of the government's proposal for a management plan for Norwegian sea areas and a definition of the 15 pst SVO ice edge zone. Ice frequency in April, based on observations over the past 30 years. The aim of the management plan is to facilitate the creation of value through sustainable use, while maintaining the environmental values of marine areas. Only by looking at all key industries of the Norwegian economy linked to the marine areas in the context of the environment and marine ecosystems can marine areas be managed in a sustainable way. It was the Bondevik II government, even then with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in government, that introduced the practice of a comprehensive management of Norwegian sea areas. For the first time, all the sea areas are being grouped together in a single message, and so we're taking a new step on the civil side. Norway is being noted internationally with this comprehensive and long-term management of our seas. At a time of increased geopolitical interest in the northern seas, knowledge and good management combined with high security and preparedness are important for Norway to assert our interests and lead the way. Today, we can congratulate Norway on its place in the UN Security Council. Many small countries and island states have voted for us – many with the expectation that we dare to be a voice in the response to global climate change. Climate change is evident in our northern seas, and it is important that the precautionary principle is applied. These changes will have a major impact on marine ecosystems and natural diversity in Norwegian seas, which will also affect marine industries and coastal communities. It is essential to take care of marine ecosystems such as seaweed forests, seaweed communities and eel grasslands, so-called blue forests, which are very important in the uptake of CO 2 and which constitute natural marine carbon stocks. Blue forest is also important for marine natural diversity and helps to protect the coast from extreme weather by damping waves. It is particularly important to promote the management of particularly valuable and vulnerable areas, SVO. In the areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable, we have a special responsibility to tread gently, and human activity should show particular care and conduct in a manner that does not threaten the ecological functions or natural diversity of the areas. Professional forums have updated the professional basis for defining the particularly valuable and vulnerable ice-cream, polar and Egga edges in the preparation of the management plan. We notice that the Professional Forum highlights that not only the ice edge, but also the ice edge zone is important, because the properties of the area and the biological processes affect the value of the area, and vulnerability includes more than just the transition between ice and the open sea. The SVO is therefore to be used as a name hereafter. As the rapporteur, committee chairman and left-wing representative, I am very pleased that today we have a large and broad majority joining a new definition of the SVO ice-cream zone, and that we are setting a fixed and distinct north border of 15 pst. for petroleum activity. Since 2011, there has been confusion about what is happening. The red-green government set a limit on petroleum activity in 2011 at 30 pst. frequency of ice from older data. But in 2013, they opened the Barents Sea south-east to petroleum activities, and parts of this area was north of the 2011 border — in practice an opening northwards. The right-hand party government continued to add 30 pst. on the basis of its proposal in 2015, but then with updated data over the last 30 years. It moved the edge of the ice northwards. The majority of the population did not agree with the government at that time, but the majority never agreed on an overall alternative. Now let's set a clear and firm limit. There will be no oil exploration north of 15 p.m., and we will close the border to the North Barents Sea. If we had moved Oslo to Larvik, people would have gotten it. I guess at a physical distance it's 130 kilometers. Most of the time, we move the edge of the ice 134 kilometers south, and in addition, we have a safe area of 50 kilometers. Now the border is south of Bjørn Island instead of north of. The edge of the egg is included, and we're moving the limit of activity by land from 50 to 100 km. In total, over 56 000 km 2 of marine areas are protected as a habitat for many vulnerable and endangered species in one of the world's most untouched natural areas. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Left is associated with the other government parties and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e209	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e214	Very much of what we live on here in the country, we find below, in or above the sea. The more important it is that we manage our seas so that future generations can also reap their wealth. The sea will give us jobs today, and it will give us jobs tomorrow. The sea will also provide us with food today, and it will provide us with food tomorrow. Norway has a proud tradition of adopting holistic and ecosystem-based management plans. These aim to facilitate sustainable value creation, while at the same time harvesting marine resources in a way that ensures the environmental value of marine areas. Our marine areas are rich in resources, but they are also vulnerable. Climate change threatens life in the sea — almost even more than it threatens life on land. The oceans are getting more acidic, warmer and more polluted, and they're losing oxygen. So far the oceans have taken away a great deal of the carbon emissions the industrial time has lost, but their ability to do it is gradually saturated. We are entering a time when we will increasingly see the consequences of global climate change in our own marine areas. At the same time, an increasing population will need the proteins from the sea, as the ability of land to produce sufficient food will also deteriorate. I am pleased that in this room there is a broad consensus that an absolute limit should be drawn for petroleum activity northwards, from the area where there is 15 pst. likelihood of ice in April. It was also now irrelevant for the Workers' Party to be involved in moving this boundary northwards, given the knowledge we now have about the nature of the ice-cream zone. And it's important that we take into account what the ‘ice zone’ really means. In a scientific sense, this term describes a continuous belt that extends from the open seas to the ice-covered seas—publicly said: from zero ice to full ice. This whole area contains a unique ecosystem that lasts over time even though the ice itself pulsates northwards and southwards, both within and between years. Over the last ten years, we have gained far more knowledge of the specific nature of this ecosystem. In the past, we were more concerned about finding the edge of the ice, that is, where the solid ice began, and it was about keeping a certain distance from it. Today, it's quite appropriate that we're talking about the ice-cream zone as this whole area. After good negotiations between six parties, the majority have made it clear that the professional insight provided by the work on this management plan represents what we call the best available knowledge at this point in time. Since the whole actual ice edge zone is vulnerable, the majority of the Committee has been concerned to recall that the precautionary principle based on best available knowledge applies to this whole area, both north and south of the absolute petroleum limit, as is the case in other Norwegian sea areas. The areas south of the petroleum limit, which is south of where we are adopting an SVO today, are therefore not free of all activity. In order to open new areas here, an opening message for the Storting must normally be provided, and in the case of licensing, as usual, detailed evaluations and environmental aspects must also be taken into account here. At the same time, it has been important to ensure good predictability in the administration, not least for all the industries involved in this area, which also meant that no new restrictions should be imposed on fields already allocated, not least on the oil industry. There has been a lot of talk about petroleum in this case, and that is an important part of the discussion, but I would like to remind you that the management plan also applies to other industries: fisheries, shipping, the future use of marine minerals, sea winds, aquaculture, etc. We both need to clarify the relationship between the industries and nature and to clarify the relationship between the industries. That is why we have placed great emphasis on the issue of coexistence, how to have healthy productive seas, a basis for sustainable management, as a prerequisite for today's and tomorrow's jobs, a creative economy and respect for nature's peculiarities in this valuable and vulnerable area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e229	Today is the next last day of this session, and we are concluding the Environment and Energy Committee today with, among other things. This is the debate. That's a nice way to end up with. It sums up the importance of the work we do in our committee in a good way. That's a worthy sentence for the session. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work, especially those parties who wanted constructive cooperation on the management plans. For us, it was important to have broad agreement on this important matter because it ensures legitimacy and predictability – and we did. With this Communication, the Government ensures continuity and renewal, innovation and confirmation of key principles in the Norwegian management of the Norwegian sea areas. This is a system built up over many years, and this time we are gathering for the first time the management plans for the three seas in the same communication. The management plans are based on knowledge, on expertise. Then, management plans are a policy tool for balancing different considerations. They've always been. This type of responsible management – which we started with in Norway – is also an inspiration for the rest of the world: sustainable management of marine areas, the maintenance of natural and environmental considerations while facilitating long-term value creation for several industries. Based on the debate that has taken place, it may seem that this is essentially an oil report. It's far from the truth. This is a matter of several industries in our marine areas – petroleum yes, but also marine aquaculture, fisheries and after each sea wind. But what has created the most debate is the delimitation of the SVO ice edge zone. It's moving further south, to 15 pst. Ice frequency in April. The limit is set on the basis of recommendations from the Professional Forum, where one was divided into views on where the boundary should go. The debate – public change of words – on the border has shown that there are also several opinions in the public domain. Someone wants it further south, others want it further north. It's a criticism we now hear from critics who want it further south, who probably would never be satisfied with the conclusion whatever it was. However, the deafening silence of all the other management plans suggests that the whole that has been taken care of is good, sound, predictable and sustainable. We combine a pre-war approach to deliver the environmental values, while at the same time the new limit does not affect the granted extraction permits. In the examination of the case, the government parties first went to the Advance Party, because they are our closest partner. With that agreement as a starting point, we further cooperated with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Our six parties have come to an agreement I am very pleased with. Let me with the remaining time go through this consensus quickly. First of all, we confirm some of the important research done on our oceans, and that we are no longer talking about an ice edge, but about an ice edge zone. Secondly, we are concerned with more knowledge, more up-to-date time series and the consequences of different update intervals. Thirdly, we are clear about the importance of caring for Norwegian interests. It further means monitoring available resources north of the defined limit and ensuring Norwegian interests quickly and efficiently if Russia is to make a cross-border finding in the North Barents Sea. That is why I would also like to refer to the proposal from the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. Fourthly, we confirm our desire to launch the 25th concession round as quickly as possible. In our marine areas, there are several different industries operating. We stress in agreement the importance of coexistence for the different industries, and we say that they should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner as far as there is a factual basis for this, even when the activity has a comparable impact on corals and bottom communities. In addition, we stress that the government is actively working to adopt the proposal for a ban on heavy oil in the Arctic by the IMO Environment Committee. This is an overall message, and it is a setting that takes care of the whole – sustainability and activity, environmental values and value creation. Once again, I want to thank the Committee, and I look forward to the debate, but not least to the decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e263	The previous articles have illustrated in many ways what was the main job of the Progress Party through negotiations with the other parties, simply to preserve the interests of Norwegian jobs, because that job does not happen to itself. It has to be very successful in creating the basis for producing more values in the sea – including in the Barents Sea – over the years to come, whether it concerns the oil industry, fisheries or other industries. This means that even if our starting point before these negotiations was a little different, that we should both be consistent with the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja and open further north than the government suggested, we have seen it as an important work to contribute to some important breakthroughs in these negotiations as well. It's not primarily on behalf of ourselves, but on behalf of all the thousands of workers in different industries relate to the marine industries. Therefore, it was important – and it did not come about by itself either – that we were able to get a wide range of numbers so that we still have to map north of 15 p.m. as we define today. The reason why we're going to do that is, of course, that we want to know which resources are further north, assuming that we can open up to them later. It has been an important premise that the Progress Party has been involved in this. The second thing we do is we're going to keep updating the time series. We have now seen that the limit set to 15 pst. Today, very much reminds me of the limit we had a few years ago, which was defined as 30 pst, because the time series is changing. There is a basis for viewing the move of the limit at a later date. The third – and that is the only point where the Workers' Party and the Centre have jumped off the agreement with the Progress Party and the Government Party today – is actually to empower the government to launch an opening process if Russia makes cross-border findings. In the case of the Progress Party, it is fundamentally about the maintenance of Norwegian interests. If the Russians open their oil fields north of 15 p.m., we should also take part in the value creation that can come from it. I'm happy to have got the government party on it, even though the Labour Party and the Center Party have dropped off. In sum, this contributed to both providing a stable and robust framework for all nutritionists now and delivering on some of what they were busy with, ensuring a wide and solid multiplicity in Stortinget that can last for time, on what was the minimum solution that the government party presented. That's what we're talking about. There are no changes in actual policies that are in disfavor of industry and fisheries, from what the government suggested after these negotiations, but we have put in place some measures that speak the industry's case. It's been important to us. The second, which is also quite central, is that although a limit of petroleum activity is now set at 15 pst. Ice frequency in April, it is not a protection of the areas north of it. For the Progress Party it has also been important. That means that we recognize that there is no political basis in the Storting in this big period and with the plurality that is here in the house, to move further north than what we land on today, but we hope that it will change, because we know that there are huge resources that are supposedly commercially profitable over time also north of this border. For us, it's about the basis for creating well-being in the years to come. We believe that the oil industry has shown over time that one is able to combine an efficient oil and gas policy with the preservation of natural values in our major seas. The Barents Sea is not significantly different from our other vulnerable areas on it, and it would mean that we can hope for a bigger oil adventure even further north at a later time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e282	The rich oil and gas deposits on Norwegian continental shelf have been and are the basis of Norway’s largest export industry and will also be in the foreseeable future. It provides Norway with an economic freedom that is unique internationally. We have received evidence of this several times this spring when the Stortinget has been able to grant large crisis packages to lubricate the economy in a difficult time. The petroleum industry will also be a bridge fixture in the green shift. It'll be a bridge fixing where we're going to build the bridge to the green industries, based on the capital, the expertise, the technology and the resources that come from oil and gas today. The centre party has a long tradition of ending up on the main lines of Norwegian petroleum policy, with particular emphasis on management, industrial development throughout the country, the income generated by the industry to the community, and environmental and climate responsibility. Oil and gas resources must, in the view of the Centre Party, be used at a pace and in a way that allows long-term gains to be made and that balances the oil and gas industries with the needs of the other industries, such as oil and gas. fishing, shipping and sea wind and environmental interests. Norway is a country that has used the sea for countless times, both as a transport year and as a harvest of its resources. It is therefore important for the Centre Party to have a management plan that does not go at the expense of fisheries and aquaculture and vulnerable natural resources. In the areas where petroleum activities are carried out, co-existence shall be used as a basis for management. We are therefore pleased that areas which are particularly valuable for the fishing industry, which are close to land or have a high risk of accidents, should also be kept free from petroleum activities in the course of the continuation. The central party is pleased that a broad majority are united on a settlement on the management plans for the Norwegian sea areas. That majority shall ensure predictability of the industries in the areas and that the vulnerability of the areas is taken into account. It has been essential for the Centre Party to take into account the scientific basis for the location of the ice edge zone. This has been achieved together with the government parties, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. The fact that a large majority now establish a northern limit for petroleum activity at 15 p.m. Ice frequency and the fact that no petroleum activity is permitted north of this area during the period until the update of the management plans, not earlier than 2024, is important. From the point of view of the Centre Party, we would like to stress the importance of applying the precautionary principle in the areas between 0,5 pst. and 15 pst. ice frequency, even if the area itself is not declared as a particularly vulnerable and valuable area, a so-called SVO. However, the consideration of natural diversity and environmental advice is taken into account before the authorisation of industrial activities in all our marine areas. An up-to-date knowledge base is then crucial. The importance of the majority’s joining in behind the observation that systematic knowledge development will continue. Some would argue that the majority choose to ignore environmental advice when setting a limit at 15 pst. Ice frequency. To them I would say that politics is about weighing different interests against each other. In some areas, broad comparisons are more valuable than in others. This is one of the policy areas where a broad settlement is important. Here we have a settlement that ensures that important environmental considerations are taken into account, while at the same time providing the industries operating in these marine areas with predictability and clear leadership. Norwegian petroleum policy has taken place in steps. As a result, the sector is subject to one of the most stringent health, environmental and safety regimes in the world. The centre party is convinced that with the requirements now in place for the industries to operate in these areas, this would pose a minimum safety risk. Finally, I would like to thank the majority of the parties for their cooperation in order to find a sustainable, predictable and long-term solution for the environment and industries and the management of resources in these marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e305	If today's government had taken part in the discussion about whether the earth was flat or round, it would have made a compromise that it was square. The government's proposal on where the ice zone is going has no support in the science of science about where the ice zone is actually located. Appropriately, the drawing goes from the government free of all given oil permits and has thus received support from, among other things. The party of progress. But the ice zone is where it lies, regardless of where the political majority of the Stortinget believe it is, and it's going to be equally vulnerable to oil spills. The ice-cream zone is no longer square because the bulk of the potion would want it to be. Therefore, the SV will continue to fight for these vulnerable sea areas, even after today’s debate on the ice zone is over. The ice edge zone is not a sharp edge where you will suddenly meet solid ice if you travel north by boat. You'll gradually sail into areas with slush and maybe some ice flakes afterwards, before you meet more solid ice you can go on. The majority write in the settings that they believe it is important to have an up-to-date and optimal knowledge base. Yes, it is easy to agree. But what follows suggests that the attitudes to facts and science have already taken a summer holiday with the majority in this room. What should be the basis for up-to-date and optimal knowledge when you are not interested in using it? The facts about the ice edge zone do not have the power in the majority position, and it is serious. An informed debate should be based on facts. You may disagree on the risk of exposing vulnerable areas, but we cannot stick to our own facts. One can only speculate: has the government created its own ice edge zone to hide the environmental degradation it will impose on the government's so-called environmental party when it proposes a 25th concession round? That's what this is all about. The majority's scientific denial is essentially about facilitating more oil activities in some of our most vulnerable marine areas. The majority also emphasise in their comments the importance of launching new oil activities in this area — and at a time when the world has found too much fossil energy. Then the government parties are going to go north, then they're going to run on a new oil business in our common food chamber, and they're going to do it by overruning science and environmental advice on the road. The ice-cream zone is one of the areas in the world with very high production of food, food in the form of e.g. Reddew and other very small species we can only see in a microscope, food for the joints further up the food chain, food for the loofot cod, which it relies on to come swimming down with its built-in GPS to the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestreål and Senja every single year. Oil spills in these areas could have disastrous consequences for this food production – our common food production. The so-called environmental party Left is trying to sell the science denial they're in, like an environmental win. They believe they have had the advantage that there should be no oil business north of the government's designed ice edge. But this does not hold, because we can read in the setting that if the Russians find oil on their side of the base, north of the home-made ice zone of the government parties, Norway will be able to throw itself around, throw itself on and set off oil operations also north of the government's ice edge zone. It is also emphatically stated that the areas north of the government's ice edge zone should be surveyed and that the boundaries drawn apply only for four years. The last words have therefore not been said in this case. We are going to insist that these vulnerable areas are protected from harmful activities. I finally want to address the suggestions that SV is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e324	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e329	Let me start by thanking the case spokesperson, thanking the committee and the big, broad plural here because one has managed to work across and find a good solution. That I mean there's reason to be proud of. I also mean there's reason to be proud of our country and the polar history we have. We have worked systematically and become better and better at natural management and better and better at managing the large seas we have. That's probably necessary, but that's not for that reason, of course. Where environmental arguments were perceived as a kind of treason against prosperity just a few decades ago, politicians and businesses are now playing on the team for a green shift, and it is a competitive advantage for the various companies to be able to document the environmental resilience that is there. We've come a long way, but we can't let ourselves fall asleep. The ocean covers most of the Earth we have and is set to manage, and I think we're doing well with the plurality that's now lying here. It's the first time the Stortinget simultaneously deals with holistic management plans for the Norwegian seas, and it's great that we've got there. It's great that we have a system that also means that we have to do this exercise with even spaces. When this debate is on one of the last days of this session, it may also be appropriate to raise your eyes and be a little thoughtful, because we who are in this room play an important role in the management that is. Politics means a difference. I allow myself to quote old Ivar Aasen, who can be self-critical, but at the same time also show that politics, or being able to contribute, means something: «Days come, days go, without sleet, time goes by. Long as the day's been, you're still too little done. If I often fall, that my deed was too small, yet I must be grateful that I could do something." Management plans are designed to facilitate both the creation of treasures, food security and the maintenance of marine environmental values. We need to have these thoughts and care in our head all the way in such matters. Let me also focus on what might have been the hottest potato in this case, simply the ice-cream or the ice-cream in the Barents Sea. It's not random that I just chose to quote the Aasen poem, because there's a reason to be grateful that we've actually managed to get a wide plurality in this room to move the icebergs to the south, in other words, we're expanding the SVO area southward and we're saying that there's no petroleum activity there. Iskantsona is one of the world's most important ecosystems in one of the world's most vulnerable marine areas. It's not an area we can gamble with, although important economic interests in the petroleum sector are in the second scale. This clarification has a bit of a messy political history. The debate on the edge of the ice starts in the handling of the Report. St. 36 for 2012–2013, on the opening of the Barents Sea south-east for petroleum industry. The opening message suggested that petroleum activity should not be started at the ice edge and the polar front, and then the question of petroleum activity at the ice edge should be re-evaluated in conjunction with the updating of the management plan. The opening message of the then red-green government, with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, was unclear as to what definition was underlying the ice edge and the polar front. If you go back and read the questions that the committee asked at the time, it is obvious that you did not get any clear answers. In his letter of reply at the time, Ola Borten Moe wrote to the Committee on 5 June 2013 that he defined the ice edge in the following way: ‘In the concept of the actual/observed edge of the ice, it is added at all times to the ice edge observed. In the opening process, the ice edge is defined as 40 pst. ice coverage.’» It has been necessary for a long time to clear up the blurred image created by Borten Moe, and the administration policy that was the basis for that at the time there was another plurality in this room. In 2015, a test was made that would have moved slightly northwards. At that time the matter was sent back. One asked for a holistic management plan. He's the one we're dealing with now. There we get a good basis for confirming the SVO iskantsona. Let me stress that it has been important and valuable that a broad majority support the government's proposal not to initiate petroleum activity in areas that have had more than 15 pst. of the days of April. This is a good basis for the safe and good management of these areas, and it's a good reason to thank you for the fact that there's a wide variety of places behind it, including the words from Ivar Aasen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e367	Since several of the representatives in their speeches mention that the session is approaching the end, the President will only draw attention to the conclusion of the session on 30 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e372	In the New Year's speech, Prime Minister Erna Solberg devoted much space to the climate crisis. She asked us to prepare for a tougher climate policy. As the Prime Minister recalled, emissions in Norway are about as large today as they were in 1990. In the world they go up. The main reason for this is that we burn too much coal, oil and gas. If we want the emissions down, we can't even burn the oil and the gas we know today. In view of that, the matter we are discussing today is quite absurd. At all, considering going across all environmental professional recommendations to facilitate even more oil exploration — in addition to vulnerable sea areas already under pressure — is not part of Norwegian policy in 2020. While the EU will replace fossil energy with renewable energy, most Norwegian politicians still insist that Norwegian gas is part of the climate change solution for Europe. Although we know that emissions must be net zero by 2050, Norwegian politicians are opening oil fields to pump up to 2070. In the last week, Stortinget has made some of the most short-term decisions ever. First, billions of tax reliefs came to the oil industry, with a high risk for both jobs and climate, and without a serious assessment of alternative ways of creating jobs for the supplier industry — for example. from the sea wind, which we are not supposed to have far north, dear hall, but far south in the Norwegian Sea, where we can produce power to a Europe that is to change. The majority today choose to exceed the recommendations of the Environment Directorate, the Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute for the definition of the ice edge zone. In addition, the same majority are in favour of releasing 25th concession rounds as quickly as possible to maximise oil activity, costing what it will cost. In total, the last week's oil policy is the very opposite of what Erna Solberg proclaimed in his New Year's Eve speech. The majority of the population and the government have proved Erna Solberg wrong and given the district council Hofstad Helleland the right to say that environmental policy is what Norway considers to be a luxury we cannot afford when it really applies. As most people in this room know, the Green Party will have a gradual and directed downsizing of the oil and gas industry along with a massive upscaling of new and existing renewable maritime industry. That's how we take care of the well-being and environment of future generations at the same time. When we propose this, we are met by the fact that it is the market and not the politicians who are to decide when the oil industry is to be shut down – as if the Norwegian oil adventure had taken place without a strong political special treatment. And what happens when the oil price falls? Then the market is no longer so important; then the bulk of the population is raised by billions of subsidies and tax advantages. Sea breezes, on the other hand, which are in all ways a forward-looking industry, must survive without State aid. Norway, the world and our young people deserve a braver and more forward-looking energy, business and environmental policy. Therefore, we cannot stand with the bulk of the population in this case. Together with SV, we're proposing to define the ice edge zone according to environmental advice, i.e. at 0.5 pst. Ice frequency. We propose not to allow oil and gas activities within the ice edge zone. We ask the government to amend the petroleum law to allow for the drawing of licences and the exclusion of areas north of the ice edge zone in the petroleum resource estimates. We are asking for a national plan for marine protected areas at the latest in the autumn and not for petroleum activities to be carried out in particularly valuable and vulnerable areas. It is said that you show your true face in times of crisis. It has been a little over a year since 40,000 young people demonstrated for a more radical climate policy. It's been six months since the Prime Minister's New Year's Eve. I am sorry, but today's young people will judge this big deal harshly for the way we handled this year's crisis, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e393	The edge of the ice is crucial for the north, for production in the whole area, and in the long, bright months of the summer, there is an explosion of life in the sea that affects almost all other life in the north. And this production is happening in the ice zone. This zone of large and small ice flakes, sour, fresh water from the ice and salt water from the sea can become several kilometers wide, and it moves with seasons and moves all the time. The ice-cream zone is the food barrel for many of our major fish species and also the habitat for thousands of species, from the very smallest to the very largest. That is what the fight is all about. The ice zone is also vulnerable. The consequences of oil spills could be enormous here. Small amounts of oil in the sea means that the eggs to the crayfish can't hatch, according to the researchers, and then the whole food chain breaks down. It will be difficult to clean up oil spills in darkness, cold and waves, and lenses do not work very well in a sea full of ice. The National Audit Service criticised the Barents Sea Oil Protection Preparedness last March. It is not rusted to tackle the weather in the area. In 2015, Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft moved from the right edge of the ice northwards. They did so by changing the 30-year period from which to calculate the extent of the ice zone, because climate change is happening rapidly, and the ice edge is moving northwards due to man-made climate change. When the zone moves further north due to climate change, it also affects animal life there, and then they need extra protection. The move of the ice zone further north should not be an open invitation to drill for oil further north, but a warning of how bad nature is in our time. In the professional forum to make recommendations to the authorities, everyone outside one wanted to move the ice edge south to put environmental considerations and species diversity first, one being, of course, the Oil Directorate. All other professional environments recommended that the entire area has more than 0.5 pst. Ice frequency is defined as part of the ice edge zone. This definition will mean that eight licensed light licences end up in closed areas, but we have to bear that, because we can't open ever new oil fields when the globe gets warmer. Then we have the Left in government. They have made their own customs definition of the ice edge as a sort of compromise to trick their environmental voters. And not enough with that: the government also allows looking for oil north of this zone, and the zone will be updated in four years, when the ice edge has probably moved further north due to man-made climate change. This is not environmental policy – and shows that the Left is not an environmental party when it comes to at least the most. “The working party will place greater emphasis on vulnerability, the environment and biodiversity in this matter than we have done before,” said Jonas Gahr Støre in January. Those words were worth relatively little when it came to the end, when the Workers' Party goes along with the government against all available environmental knowledge, and to take care of vulnerable and valuable nature. Instead of pursuing an active state-owned industrial policy that creates a long-term, forward-looking and environmentally friendly industry, and that ensures lasting jobs for those who are currently working in oil-related industries, the government and the Workers' Party provide the oil companies with a stable framework for a new economic crisis. The nature, plankton and the animals in the icy edge zone shall not be subject to any framework conditions. So today, the Labour Party and the government are on the wrong side, we mean. Red supports the environmental advice that says the ice zone will go further south. We're against expanding our search for oil. We have found more oil than we can capture, we need to meet the targets of cutting greenhouse gas emissions. We don't want to gamble with jobs, nature and the environment. On the other hand, we will have a large investment with state investment in environmentally friendly industries and prevent both the transition to unemployment and full gas towards a new market-based oil price collapse, not oil exploration in vulnerable areas far north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e410	The President would point out that using the concept of ‘customs definition’ if the definitions of other parties are probably not within the Parliamentary vocabulary, and would recommend the use of other words.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e415	Norway is a port. The sea has always been the basis for well-being and development in this country. If we take good care of it, with the lack and resources that exist there, it is the best basis we can lay for sustainable development and a sustainable marine economy. It will play an important role in the transition to a low-carbon society and in the development of new, green solutions and new actions. The sea is our rug and an area where the connection between sustainable development and economic opportunities is particularly clear. So the possibilities for future growth are good if we manage the sea well. The state of the environment in the productive and resource-rich Norwegian seas is in many ways good, but both the world seas and the Norwegian seas are changing rapidly as a result of climate change. They are under increasing pressure from marine activity as well as on land. In recent years, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Intergovernmental Panel on Nature have warned of a rapid, negative development for the world's oceans and of the long-term consequences for the environment and society if we do not quickly reduce emissions and take action to reduce the collection of taxes from activities in the sea and along the coast. With the message that Stortinget is addressing today, the government is continuing the holistic and ecosystem-based management plans for Norwegian seas, and we are renewing them in response to climate change and the impact of increased activity in the sea and on land. The message is based on a solid professional base from the Professional Forum and from the Monitoring Group. These plans provide a coherent framework and alert measures for sustainable use and conservation of marine ecosystems, which are necessary in response to these challenges. Good management of marine areas contributes to meeting the challenges in the sea. I am therefore pleased that, in the Committee's configuration, there is broad agreement on the framework and measures put forward by the government in the message. Iskantsona is a highly vulnerable natural area. This is where polar bears hunt for sales. Here we find vulnerable avian species, fish and plankton. This is an area we have to take care of. In the case of ice-cream suns, the management plan sets a clear, fixed limit on how far north it can be set in the petroleum industry for the sake of nature values. That limit has been proposed by the government to go where it has had 15 pst. of the days in April, in the years 1988 to 2017. This frame will remain valid until it is updated in a later management plan. That's the Storting's agreement. I'm glad. That means that the iskantsona now has a stronger protection than before. This means that larger parts of the icebergs than anything are shielded from petroleum activity. She is moved south as the ice has moved northwards. It shows that we take the natural values and environmental values more seriously now than before, and that's good. Some of the parties of my borders should have been drawn further south, and some of mine should have been drawn further north. I think that the limit as we have now set it is a good solution for the environment that also makes it a good solution for those who live by the sea. The fact that a large number of people now stand behind it indicates – we have hope – that such a fixed limit will also remain in place, and that is important for the environment. For the first time, we use a big message to give a broad picture of how climate change affects the marine environment – what consequences it will have in the long term, and what it means for our management. The government emphasises that the management of living resources and marine biodiversity must adapt to climate change. As part of the management plan, we will carry out a risk analysis for the Norwegian seas covering both direct and indirect impacts of climate change. I look forward to a further discussion in the hall today. Norway is a port, and this is a good day for the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e438	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e443	I share the state council's expression for joy that there is such a broad consensus, and that it can stand over time. Six parties have signed up here, based on what the government put forward, with some clarifications from the majority. But the representative, Jon Georg Dale, has earlier been here in the hall, and also in the media, giving the impression that there is a kind of opening for exploration north of 15 p.m. I would like to hear if the Council of State can confirm that it is the government's view that it is not true, that this petroleum limit is absolute, and that when you say'resource mapping', it is the type of activity that the Directorate of Oil operates, for example. through seismics, and thus no kind of exploration or other real petroleum activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e450	I can confirm that the currently proposed limit, as confirmed by the Stortinget today, will be practised by the administration in such a way that petroleum extraction will not be permitted north of that limit. Test drilling will not be allowed north of that limit, in other words, not allowed with what we call petroleum activity. But since 1969 it has been such that even in sea areas not open to petroleum activity in Norway, a survey of resources, for example, can be conducted. through seismic investigations. It will also be possible after today. It has been important – at least for individuals – that it be clarified in the Committee's position, and of course the government will stick to the practice that has been practised until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e457	I thank you for a clear and clear answer and can confirm from our side that we support the fact that in the future, as we have done since 1969, that there is neither an impact on any particular party nor anything new in exactly that, but current practice. Then I would also ask, again inspired by the representative Dale: does the Council of State see it as particularly likely that in the next few years there will be knowledge that will allow you to draw this boundary northwards, based on new insights at the next management plan, or does he see, as I do, that it is most likely that this limit will remain there for quite a long time, perhaps drawn southwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e464	When it comes to the natural phenomenon of iskantsona, my knowledge of evolution, at least in the last few years, is that there is a tendency for her to pull southwards. But these are things that can swing from year to year. The important thing is the long trends. The long-term trend is that icebergs have moved northwards due to climate change. There's reason to believe, at least in a long-term perspective, that it will continue. I get to add ‘unfortunately’ because of the climate change that is taking place. Each attracts the limit of petroleum activity, and in and on how one defines the SVO limit, is up to the constant government to do so by joining the Storting. I thought it was important to update both ice data and management plans. It was the representative of Barth Eide, who was also inside before today, that we have gained a lot of new knowledge over the last few years about the important natural values that lie in the north, and then I think it's good that we have updated the management plans, as the Stortinget has to deal with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e473	I share the thoughts of the Council of State about the importance of a broad settlement. The representative and the case rapporteur, Mr Kjeseth, who is from the Council of State's own party, said that you do not move the border northwards, but close the possibility. It stands in stark contrast to statements by the government's support party, by Jon Georg Dale, who, almost the same day as the settlement was known, went to war against the border and today repeated to NTB that the goal was to move the border northward. The representative Dale is closest to the sideline and hesitant that Russia should open fields north of the 15 p.m. border, and it is also open between the government parties and the Progress Party. Does the Council of State think that there is an automatic way in which Russian activity also triggers Norwegian oil activity north of the 15 p.m. border?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e481	Of course, there's no automatic in it. It is important to stress that Norway is the only Arctic nation that has seen a limit on petroleum extraction towards the north. No one else has. We choose to do it for the sake of nature. Russia has open for search far north of the area that we allowed in Norway. If Russia were to make a cross-border finding, that is, of a field that is both Norwegian and Russian, and will open up activity there, it will at any time make an assessment of how one will take care of both nature values and Norwegian interests, in the light of, among other things. the 2010 split-line agreement, which was put in place by the red-green government. But what the outcome of such an assessment would be, it is impossible for me to say per now. Otherwise, I agree with what the case spokesperson said, that what is important now is that we draw a clear limit to petroleum extraction that goes beyond anything else, which protects a greater part of the ice-cream than anything else. It's important to be careful, but it's primarily important for the natural values that are now being given greater weight by both the Greatness and the Government, and I'm glad that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e490	I could have let myself be inspired by the previous lines and asked the Council of State how many hits he actually thought the Labour Party and the Center Party got in these negotiations, but I will not, of course, do it, because I know the answer. What I'm going to ask, however, is – in the light of what the case-speaker also said in the opening statement – how the government looks at the area north of 15 p.m. We're some of them that we're going to keep monitoring, and we're some of them that we're going to deal with the situation of cross-border findings in particular. But then the case spokesperson said something that could sound like a protecting the areas north of 15 p.m. Can the Council of State confirm that no protection was provided for the areas of the North Barents Sea, north of the 15th century, either during this period or after 2024, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e499	First of all, I'm not going to consider how much impact different parties have had in the negotiations, either one or the other. What I find out is that the message presented by the government has essentially been accepted by the Stortinget, and that a large number, through the comments in the committee setting, feel that they can support this. That's what I think is good. It's important to be careful. And, of course, like the Council of State that sent out the message, I'm pleased that she's getting all the connection now. That's good. To the question: I believe the word ‘protection’ is used both in a very formal legal and administrative sense and in a slightly more political sense. I'm a left-wing politician, and I often talk about protecting Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. I'm glad, in the sense that we don't have petroleum activity there. But the whole area is not a marine protection area, for example. Nor do we suggest that the areas north of 15 pst. shall be a marine protection area. It's probably not easy to do after the laws of nature, as far as I remember, because of the distance to the territorial border – but that's the way it is. The point is that there should be no petroleum activity there, and I think both myself and the case spokesperson are happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e506	The case rapporteur, Ketil Kjenseth, said in his speech that there will be no oil drilling north of the ice edge zone. The Council of State said in its statement that we have a clear and firm limit on how far north you can operate with oil. At the same time, the government parties, together with the Progress Party, are on a proposal asking that it be implemented an opening process also in the areas north of the 15 pst.-ice edge zone if the Russians make cross-border findings. My question is: can the Council of State guarantee that oil operations will not be initiated north of the 15 p.m. limit as long as the Left is in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e513	I want to start by allowing myself to say that in the light of the fact that the party of the representative Lars Haltbrecken, when they were to define an ice zone in their time, she added 30 pst. Ice frequency, not 15 pst., and opened for full petroleum activity in the South and East of the Barents Sea, they have had a reasonable offensive tone in the debate here today. I'll let it go. To the specific question: What the Stortinget adopted today is that a request from the government ‘rapidly assess how best to care for Norwegian interests, including the need to start an opening process for relevant areas’, should such cross-border findings occur. In fact, I think it goes a long way, saying that if our nearest neighbouring country is going to start with oil activity in a field that enters the Norwegian side, it will have to consider how to look at it at any time. The answer we don't know today, and if you're going to open a sea area for petroleum industry, it's a matter that has to be resolved in the Storting. So in that case, in the hypothetical situation, the Storting will have the opportunity to decide on it. But there is little to suggest that it becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e520	The councils opened up by saying that this is a good day for the sea. I'm sure we disagree. I want to take up something other than just the definition of where the ice-cream zone is going now, because we've been a lot into it already, and that's how the rather uncritical attitude to how the mapping north of the ice-cream zone can affect life in the ocean. There we lack a lot of knowledge, and what we have of knowledge makes us know that seismics and sonars – i.e. sound and pressure waves – directly affect the ability of fish and marine mammals to communicate with each other, find food, find spawning grounds and navigaters. That's why I'm very surprised, since I know the Council of State as one who's concerned about nature and the environment, that the Council of State shows such a little critical attitude to open up to continue a survey that has such a big impact on life in the ocean. How can the Council of State call it a good day to the sea when you now open up to so much disturbance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e527	First, I'm going to have to correct it a little bit: it's not like we're opening this up right now. Seismic studies are fully permitted in those areas already today, and it certainly has always been. But I do share the concerns of the representative of Bastholm, in the sense that we do not know enough about the consequences of seismic shooting for both fish and special marine mammals. We know one thing. That's why we have some pre-war rules for this today, for example. It's about avoiding spawning time and having soft start rules when you start it, but we need more knowledge. There is also a part of this management plan about how a need for more knowledge of seismic research and that the government will work to gain that knowledge. Of course, this will also have to be taken into account by the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e532	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e539	As a Westerner, I have always lived by the sea and always used the sea. Our history lies in the sea, today's prosperity came from the sea, and if anyone should be in doubt, our future lies in the sea. Management plans for our marine areas are very important in the compromise between activity, value creation, food security and the environment. It is then worrying when the whole debate is about how we can establish constraints rather than see opportunities. We are a maritime power, we have long and proud shipping traditions, and maritime nutrition is among our most important, with Haugesund as our maritime capital. There are 200,000 jobs directly linked to the sea, both in the traditional marine industries and in other industries, creating values for over 500 billion. kr annually. We reap from the sea, and we live from the sea, and never will we risk activity that could threaten the existence and future of the sea. The edge of ice has become the major theme of this management plan — and not for no reason. Me and the Progress Party would have liked this limit to go further north, for two thirds of all our undiscovered petroleum resources are in the Barents Sea, and two thirds of them are in the Barents Sea north. But this plan is important, and the decision we are making today provides a basis for the future. I'm glad we've got the dynamic limit to be assessed behind the spring, and the Progress Party is going to give priority to funding for the directorate, so that we can look and map these areas well and be prepared when they become available for new activity. Russia does not have a limit on petroleum activity in the north, and I am very pleased that we have secured a majority to care for the Norwegian interests about Russia starting activity in cross-border findings. But I find it extremely strange that the Workers' Party and the Centre do not want to secure such values and today is voting against a proposal that the government should consider what best interests Norwegian interests should be in the event of cross-border findings. Understand the one who can. The majority today adopts a plan to maintain a good and safe activity, which in turn provides value creation and jobs for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e554	Today's case that we're debating includes Norway's biggest and most important industry, and it's quite natural for me to give it three minutes. There are very many good reasons for good, safe and predictable management of Norwegian oil and gas production, but I would like to mention the five that are most important to me. The world needs more energy. Even the International Energy Agency (IEA) mentions it in its speeches – we need all Norwegian oil and gas. Norwegian gas reduces climate emissions in Europe. So we're part of the solution, not part of the problem. We haven't had any serious environmental accidents on a Norwegian base over the last 40 years of activity, and we're not going to have that. We are an international leading manufacturer of environmentally friendly exploration and production. It produces significant revenues and ring-fences. I will not mention them in fleng, but look at Pumps & Pipes in Stavanger and where we can manage to be cross-sectoral. It is Norway’s largest mainland industry, and in the wake of the activity on Norwegian pedestal, we also have Norway’s largest employment in terms of jobs supplying Norwegian pedestals. Of course, I could also mention good use of resources, jobs across the country – not to mention worldwide – and that there is an engine in the Norwegian economy and industrial development. All this in total makes me terribly proud of Norwegian oil and gas production. I'm proud of the welfare development we've had, and the one we're going to have. I am also quite sure that in the future we will have further reasons to be proud. When offshore workers go to work, they'll know we're proud. We're going to continue as today. We need good co-existence at sea. It will also be so in the future that, due to technological developments, we may no longer have the large oil platform installations at sea, but underwater installations that take up natural resources managed by human resources and new technologies on land – usually led by Haugesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e581	I have been so lucky to have had many expeditions in the areas we are talking about today – most film expeditions in my previous life, but also on research boats. Then I would depict the life that was in the ice-cream zone, especially the valuable and vulnerable areas that belong to, for nature-interested TV-titters. Now I'll say a little bit about what I've seen. I agree with an overall committee, which says that ‘the characteristics and biological processes of the area that affect the value and vulnerability of the area include more than just the transition between ice and the high seas’. Every biologist who's been there knows that. I know that too. I've been making film recordings of all the most visible and charismatic species that go there. The white nomad polar bear I've met many times. It wanders on the drift ice and hunts ringing. The whale roses are on liquid ice flakes. But I've also seen and tried to convey the wealth that's south of what might be called the edge of the ice -- what people might think of as the edge of the ice. It's often open seas. It's not a single piece of ice to see. Through the flowering of algae, through countercurrents where cold and hot water meets, through the edge of the Egg, which creates upstreams, etc., something quite amazing emerges. What's coming up? There are oasiss of life – oasis of life – from nothing. All of a sudden, that's it. Knuts of seabirds — polar plume, plume, mollusks, sea horses — and in the middle of this shattering, noisy life we can see back fins across and across. It's dolphins hunting there. And all of a sudden, if you're really lucky, you'll see two, three, or four giant plays from the depths. Maybe there are whales out there in common errands to catch fish. Often there are other hunting teams there too, often half in the surface position, there are finn whales and hedgehogs. What in the world is what creates this life? It's the sunlight, and it's the nutrients. That's where it starts. The food chain starts out here: first algae, then zooplankton, so small and large crustaceans, so smaller fish and so larger fish. From here on up, most of them follow. Then there's food for sale, which is again food for polar bears. And the largest of them all -- the blue whale -- takes the shortcut directly down to the krill. Several speakers refer to disagreements in the Professional Forum on where to define the edge of the ice. Yes, of course, there is some disagreement, because oil interests are also represented. But in what we can call the whole of Norway's natural forum, there's a hundred percent consensus: the limit should have been set much further south, at 0.5 pst. Ice frequency. There is a political frontier, not a natural frontier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e597	Current and future value creation depends on good environmental status and a rich natural diversity in the coastal and marine areas of Norway and on the conservation of the sea as a food barrel and the sustainable use of marine resources. In the Barents Sea, climate change has resulted in a long-term trend with increased sea temperatures, a reduction in ice cover and major ecological changes, particularly in the northernmost regions. This in combination with the sharing line agreement helps to create increased activity. Increased activity requires increased cooperation, increased co-existence between industries, but also between Norway and Russia, which share those areas. There is a sharing of a common fisheries resource, one that has the sharing line agreement, which regulates the development of cross-border resources, and not least the opportunities offered by the north-east pass, that is, the northern sea route. Here you've partially opened up a several times shorter route to Asia than what we're used to. Increased activity in these areas, of course, increases the likelihood of adverse events. It is incredibly important to focus on the environments that already exist. The centre of traffic of the coastal works in Vardø must be strengthened. Increased activity must also provide increased resources for monitoring, for coastal management, for maritime safety, for monitoring maritime transport and for emergency pollution preparedness. We need to have increased focus on search and rescue, and we need to have increased towing boat capacity. It must be invested in emergency stores and the necessary infrastructure. This is not something we can leave to the oil companies alone, it shows the Vednes project with all clarity. You have not taken the responsibility you have asked for and received. But very much of the activity that's happening, and that's going to happen, in these areas, is not related to oil and gas. The debate has been marked by oil and gas, but there is, after all, a lot of activity here. You have extensive fishing, you have opportunities for minerals on the seabed, you already have oil and gas activity. So we're going to listen to the professional environments, we're going to take the environmental challenge seriously. But I have to say it's partially depressing to hear how cold, how dark, how frozen, how dangerous it is up there. It actually lives people there, it's actually activity, it's possible to develop communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e606	I have to agree with the previous speaker that in the north it is not cold and dark and difficult – it is lots of light, it is great, and it is nice to live there. This is an important management plan dealing with fisheries, aquaculture, nature protection, oil, gas and shipping, and it is important to take into account that the North Barents Sea is vulnerable areas – it is positive to draw the southern border for oil activities. However, Norwegian oil policy is also about activity on land and workplaces, and it is possible to respect the fact that the areas already open to oil and gas activities remain outside the protection limit — provided that North Norway contributes in the form of offshore oil activity must reflect its activity on land in the north. This is an absolute requirement for the oil industry to have legitimacy in the region. The use of key oil resources in the north must be accompanied by stronger political demands for sustainable, stable and predictable land-based jobs, locally, much more than the current situation. In difficult times, there is activity on land in the north, which is the first cut, such as the landing of oil and gas on the Weidnes and the wrong decision to shut down Aker Solutions’ workshop in Lake Sandnes. As politicians, we must make clear demands for jobs on land in the north. Finally, I would like to remind you that outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, it's obvious that we're not going to have oil activity: there's the fish that's going to have first priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e617	Last night, Norway was elected to the Security Council, and there is every reason to congratulate ourselves on – I think it is only the Progress Party and Red that have said that they do not want Norway to take on this important task. In the debate about Norway entering the Security Council, many said Norway is a small country, but Norway is not a small country. If we put together land, sea and base, we are among the 15 largest countries in the world. I believe that just sea, environment and climate must be one of our main priorities in the important work Norway will do in the next two years, and the work on the management plan is our most important tool for managing our seas. We get the best knowledge of what the status of the oceans is, and how they can be managed in a sustainable way. The management plan is not primarily an activity plan; it is an environmental policy tool. Then it's up to us politicians to make the political choices we have to make. So there's obviously a lot of political dilemmas here, in a lot of questions, but at least we have the basics ahead of us, and then we're going to have to be willing to take the balances we're going to do. I think it is good that we now have a proper management plan. That's what the Storting has regularly asked for. From the Labour Party we have had to tail and go into this government to get it done. All former climate ministers have had to stand in Stortinget and answer why they have not been presented – and that has become part of them under Erna Solberg. They've shown an enormous reluctance to present it. I am very happy that we have now got it done. Today's debate shows that it was exactly what the majority of people did when we said no to the cutting-off of the instrument that the management plans are, as the Right and Advance Party tried a few years ago. Then the then climate minister Tine Sundtoft would present it as a good news before an oil conference that she thought the ice moved northwards. Erna Solberg then said that the edge of the ice had moved itself. No, the edge of the ice does not move itself, it happens possibly through global warming and human activity. But it's also like the edge of the ice, it's moving both northwards and southwards at the same time. What the Storting is doing today is to a large extent saying that we will continue what has been the long lines, both around the boundary and if the lead was. Finally, I would just like to say a few words about the Progress Party, which has really used this matter just to create political games and speculation. On 23 April, Sylvi Listhaug stood in the debate on the NRK and threatened with a government crisis if it voted that the border should be at 15 p.m. The next day the answer came, and all the leaks you had seen turned out to be true. Then Jon Georg Dale said that this was a great victory for the Advancement Party. In the future, all the quotations and angles have been recorded by the Progress Party, had to be converted afterwards because it has proved not to vote. Terje Halleland even said in the debate that we now have a dynamic edge. We have not received that, but we have said that we should continue this by getting it every four years. And to put it like that, if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that we're not going to know less about the sea's vulnerability in four years. So the fact that the Progress Party is still going to be this government's credible partner in climate issues is still a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e632	I fully agree with the Aukrust representative, the last speaker: we have not been given a dynamic edge, no. We update the management plan in line with the rollouts we have had, approx. every four years. It's been five years now, but we're on track with that. That means that one can, of course, set a different limit in 2024 or 2025, but that means that there is a majority who will, or that we get completely new knowledge that makes us need to adjust this limit. The knowledge we have today suggests that the ice zone can move south rather than northward. But it'll show you the time. Then probably the representative Aukrast from the Workers' Party also shows a disagreement in the Workers' Party when I compare with the post I heard from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal, who was considerably more petroleum friendly and didn't put much emphasis on the climate part. I want to remind you that we are part of a Nordic community, and we also have Greenland among us. In Greenland, major changes are now taking place, causing permanent residents to face challenges both in their lifestyles and in their fishing methods, as well as in climate change, which require them to move away from their traditional habitat. This happens faster in the northern areas than it does in the mainland, and we have a lot to learn from, among other things. what is happening in Greenland. But also in our own marine areas and not least in Svalbard, we have a lot of knowledge about what's going on. Then I have some comments about the representative Lars Haltbrecken, who doesn't keep track of either celestial directions or geometry. That the Socialist Left Party was used as a rounding bow in the negotiations in the Red-Green Government, the Left cannot take any responsibility for it. SV helped open the areas northwards. Licences have been granted there today, and the Petroleum Act does not mean we can cancel them. There's a lot of consequences for a magnification and a government to do it. If you have been involved in such a decision, you will have a stand for it and will not oblige another environmental party to correct the error that was made. So we're going to move south. SV has participated in moving northwards during their reign. It is in the negotiating room that the results are being created, it is not in the tribunal. It's nice to have a principal opinion, but here SV has done something stupid. Then you get a stand for it, and then you get a respect that the left does a job now to move south. When one moves Oslo to Larvik, in the eyes of the population, it's an example that one actually does something physical.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e647	First of all, I would suggest that he should quote the representatives of the Progress Party in the future. When I said that day the iceberg message came, it was better than fear, so it's not the same thing as a big one says to the Progress Party. So if the representative is going to speak from Stortinget's pulpit, I encourage him to do it truthfully. Similarly, when a quote from my colleague Halleland, it was shown to the dynamic ice-cream that we have found on our own. We let it go, it's in the message on page 29. The edge of the ice is very dynamic and is moving during the year. There is nothing new in this. On the contrary, it is professionally based, and this may indicate that we have at least read the message, as opposed to the representative Auversut. There is something else you might suspect more representatives to have been involved, for example. The representative of Nävra, who now likes to present the Oil Directorate as a party interest in the oil industry. But we've set up Professional Forums to put together professional skills across the entire administration of the sea. They conclude that the SVO ice edge zone should be defined to between 30 and 0,5 pst. And then make a political decision and set the limit to 15 pst. That makes the big crowd today. One produces the Oil Directorate as an oil lobby, while the Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute are a sacred set of balanced knowledge intermediaries at a completely different level from the Oil Directorate. You have to be an SV member to believe in something like this. I think, on the contrary, that the government has managed to achieve in the representation they have given of the edge of the message, which has also provided a basis for a broader number of people, is an explanation of the balance between the different interests. We always have to do that. Although the Progress Party thinks that we can move further north because it's possible to move north and at the same time keep important environmental values, as the oil and gas industry has done in very many other of our marine areas, it doesn't mean that we deny that the SVO is defined between 0.5 and 30 pst. - That's it. The question is where we're going to make the balances that the Storting lands on today. When a person hears SV from the pulpit today, both representatives so far, at least my impression is that one in any case has decided which answer you should have, and then one has to ask the questions that are necessary. When a person does not continue to create oil and gas activity in Norway, continue to generate billions of income to society for which we can build well-being, then find a suitable argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e664	We're now approaching the end of the debate, so I thought I'd take the floor again. It's in itself tempting to say a lot about what's been the main theme, i.e. ice-cream son. I'm not going to do that, except to say that we're now getting a clear, fixed limit for SVO icebergs. That's good. But it's clear that we have a dynamic collapse, and the Storting is not a big deal that can bind up for the future. So what the Storting had to figure out in the future is for the voters to give them a mandate to do. I hope they'll put even more emphasis on environmental values in the future, but that's what we're going to do. What I thought I'd say a little bit about at the end, is what I thought is enormously positive with what is set up by the committee today, and that is that there is so much and so wide a number for just the management plans as tools. The management plans that we deliver, as the Storting and the government have now provided the latest version, provide us with a knowledge base to run across sectors, focus on environmental values, see things in context, and for the first time see all Norwegian sea areas in context, not just one. It is good, and it is good that the Stortinget is consensually agreeing to the way in which it works – that one can not just sit in each of its sectors and decide, but that one must have some superior frameworks that are fixed. That's good. Since several representatives have been in the happy news that we won the campaign to get into the UN Security Council – it is, of course, the government very happy that we got to, on behalf of Norway – it is also worth noting that this way of thinking about sea management is also a Norwegian export product. Now that we've been traveling around and talking to representatives of other countries about how Norway is thinking about, among other things. climate issues and ocean issues, this is one of the things we highlight. Working with management plans, as Norway has done since the Bondevik II administration and until now, is an important knowledge-based way of managing resources and taking into account environmental values. There is something we want to highlight in different contexts, and I am pleased that we have also stressed that when we are now entering the Security Council, both the sea and the climate will be high on Norway's agenda. That's good. This does not mean that there can be no different political views about the content of the plans – about icebergs, about drilling time limits, about Mortars, about all that is very important environmental issues – and often it limits it to petroleum. Then you have to give and take. But I am glad that it has our will for it, both in government and in the Grand Duchy. Now, when we get a position that 156 of 169 representatives can stand behind, I think there's something that should be appreciated – at least it's me as the Council of State. There is a heavy connection to this way of working, on behalf of the environment, on behalf of the administration and the results that have been obtained. It promises well, also for the future. With that, I would like to thank you from my side for a good debate, and then we will see how much more it will be. I guess there's things that might suggest that it might be a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e677	Towards the end of the debate – if that's what it is – I also want to remember a couple of things that were said initially by many of us who spoke at first. It's a broad consensus. This means that the government parties, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have joint comments. There are many pages of well-worked joint comments. What it says, we're in agreement by definition. That's why they're common comments. If you're wondering how to interpret this, you should look first and foremost at the font, to put it like that, because it's in the setting. It says very clearly that you have taken into account what is referred to as the professional insight into what the ice-cream zone is in nature. It says black on white – signed by all six parties – that in a professional science sense, the ice is the whole area from where there is no ice, to where there is a full ice cover, without any percentage calculation of it in terms of understanding nature. Then, as we're going to do, we make a political assessment of what it means for the job we're set to do, by drawing boundaries between business, due regard for nature and the environment and industries between themselves. That's the job of Stortinget. But the claim that one has somehow failed to understand what the natural conceptions say, I think it makes sense to refute. The second thing I wanted to say is that to the extent that this debate is also creeping into a kind of competition about who is the best friend of oil, I would say, the oil industry is most concerned about, as I know it, is broad consensus. Many people in the oil industry, whether workers or managers, are concerned about the long-term management of oil in Norway and the maintenance of the social contract. They don't deserve polarization. There is no advantage in the fact that there is going to be a competition to run for the first time after saying yes to all the oil is asking for, because long-termity is undermined by it. That we actually have such a broad majority who think that a good balance has been found between many different, individually important, considerations, is one of the things that I think is most important to celebrate today. I think that might be what should be the leftover impression. Then I also want to join what the Council of State said at the end, which is actually both important and wise. I would like to say that from my side, too: Norway's international reputation will be very much influenced in the future by the fact that we can give the impression that we manage this wisely. The debate on petroleum is now different in 2020 than it was a few decades ago, and is going to be even more different in the future. To signal that we take into account climate, nature, environment and the need for jobs and to further develop an important industry at the same time is also an important part of that debate, and I think it is a good idea that both the Council of State and the opposition are able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e690	Ida, the majority acknowledges, as Barth Eide said, that they are wrong and that the earth is round, but the majority will equally fully decide that the earth is square. The response I received from the Council of State in the exchange of replies here, clearly shows that this government, with the so-called environmental party Left, can also set oil companies in motion north of the domestic ice edge zone they have submitted. So it's not like we're getting a clear and firm limit on how far north you can go. Nor is it the case, as the rapporteur says, that there will be no oil drilling north of the ice edge zone. This issue has been put in the hands of the Russian President by the majority, along with the Left. The definition and exercise of Norwegian environmental policies north of the home-deep ice-cream zone have been determined by what the Russians had to think about. It allows Russian environmental policy to define Norwegian environmental policies in some of our most vulnerable marine areas. One might say a lot strange about Russia, but that it is a country with excellent environmental policies and a strong protection of our vulnerable areas, I do not think even the scientists of the majority in this Chamber today can say. I understand that it may be difficult to swallow that the Progress Party has had a full impact on the matter today together with Putin. So State Council Rotevatn is going to attack SV in this matter. The truth is, there are eight allowables given in the area that will be located north of the actual ice edge zone – eight allowables. Seven of these allowables are given by the sitting government, and more than half of them were given when the Left sat with the climate and environment minister. I guess that would say his own and speak his clear language.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e699	SV is, of course, a member of overall management plans – it should be lacking. It is a great tool, and there must be no doubt about it – to address it to the Council of State. We've got it in several areas, and one of the predecessor's heart children was the whole plan of the Oslo Earth. It's under development. I would also like to welcome it. It was just supposed to be missing. The Committee as a whole states that it wishes to "in particular to stress that the precautionary principles must be based and that management must be knowledge-based". Is that why you want to test drills further north than is natural, to get knowledge of where there might be more oil? We have more than enough natural knowledge that could trump if we wanted to, that could really put a content in the precautionary principle, if we took it seriously. It's enough to look at the presence of a seabird. If the representatives look at the map, the study by SEAPOP, for example: – where there is a seabird, where the concentrations are on the chart – you can see where the knowledge is about where the seabirds are. That's a very good indicator. The representative Dale is accusing me of viewing the Oil Directorate as a kind of lobbying organization. I have never said that – it should just be missing. But it's under a Ministry of Economic Affairs, as it is, and we also know that under agriculture, there are often agricultural assessments that can go beyond scientific assessments. That's the way it is in these departments and in underlying agencies, so it must be allowed to say that historically, and also in terms of responsibility, there's something of a cross-estimate interest. This is pretty elementary. Then to the representative Barth Eide. He's quoting the script, and it might be nice. I also think something has happened – I have to admit it. At least verbally, something has happened. I also believe that the representative to whom I referred may have a responsibility that certain things have happened also in the Workers' Party in recent times, and he should be honored for that. But then it comes to practical policy, to take this seriously in decisions. Finally, we can decide where the Munch Museum should be, where a hospital should be, but we cannot decide where the Galdhøgg should be. It's right there. The ice-cream zone is where it lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e712	Just cards to the representative Nävra: I just have to say that resource mapping is not the same as test drilling. I think he really knows that, but then it's stupid to act like something else from the pulpit. Briefly also to the August representative: no one has been pressured to submit a management plan. It is on the government's government platform, and I am pleased with the broad agreement we have reached with the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Then I have to tell the representatives Haltbrecken and Nävra that I am impressed that SV is at all involved in this debate. Because in the context of the management plan, the Socialist Left felt that this matter could not be dealt with before the summer – it was too short a time, it was not appropriate to deal with the matter and conclude so quickly. But obviously SV succeeded anyway. But then the representative admits Haltbrecken to Nettavisen that SV had already really concluded, a long time ago, even when the message came. This means that there must be another reason, a second reason, for SV to go out in the media and say that normal proceedings are not appropriate in this case – which was more important for SV than moving the border southwards, which was more important for SV than trying to influence this case. None of us who have negotiated this matter, have heard a hoof from the Socialist Left Party, or the MDG for that matter, when we have been dealing with this matter. What could it have been? What might have been more important for SV? Well, it must have been to delay the 25th concession round, to use the corona for everything it is, a political game to delay the 25th concession round. Then I wonder, because we've been reading in the class struggle for some time ago about industrial workers in SV who wonder if this can still be a party to them: are there any industrial workers left in the Socialist Left Party, or are there now only people who are safely located in garden cities discussing the intersectionality and demolition of statues? If there are any industrial workers left, they should note the behaviour of the Socialist Left Party in this matter. An industrial worker has nothing to do with being an SV socialist.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e724	Now the President believes that "circumstances" belong to another species, and in this way can be used in that context. The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e731	Before the Corona arrived in Norway, this had increased a deadline for the government to promote matters that were to be sure to be dealt with in the spring session. That deadline was set at 10 April. Then came the big message, the management plan, on April 24, i.e. in good time afterwards. If the corona had not been there, this staging message would not have been dealt with until the harvest. The government parties, together with the majority, provided an urgent debate on the matter in the wake of the Korona crisis. Now we hear what was the reason: it was to get ahead in the 25th concession round and get more oil blocks out in the most vulnerable sea areas we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e738	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e755	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e762	The situation in the Sami reindeer operation is challenging. The winter we've been lying behind us has been very snowy, and has been unstable. Together it has created a grazing crisis we have to take seriously. Therefore, it is important to take predatory game out for the sake of just grazing, of course within the framework of the two-part objective. In order to do that, we have made extensive withdrawals every year of just predators. In the last few years, the consequence has been that we have taken it out approximately. 200 predators every year. To ensure that the calving areas of tamrein are free from predators is not possible within the two-part objective. The cleaning system covers approx. 40 pst. in Norway, but there is no doubt that this winter and spring have been particularly difficult. Therefore, it is very good that the Stortinget has supported the government in increasing the funds for the crisis response fund by 20 million. kr extra, just to help the reindeer in the situation they are currently in. It will facilitate good animal welfare and support future production, including: through the purchase and transport of raw materials. This means that the reindeer management agreement, together with this increase in the crisis response fund, is now financing a number of measures to deal with this grazing crisis, with a total of approx. Forty million. kr. It also means that everyone who applied for aid for the purchase of raw materials in our food received support for it. That is also why money was put into and transported out of the feed. As we know, there are very many of these reindeer areas that are not exactly close to wide highways, so they were transported out by helicopters. The staff are now following up both this and any licences for withdrawals further. Although this year's situation is special and weather and snow is the main part of the cause, we have to prepare for this to happen again. Climate change hits the districts hard. It hits agriculture, and it just hits the reindeer industry. Continuing the development we've seen now, it can threaten reindeer to a much greater extent than what predators are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e775	The Labour Party believes that Norway has a separate responsibility to take care of predators in Norwegian nature and is committed to ensuring viable predatory strains in Norway, in line with the agreed stock targets of the Stortinget, regional management, the Natural Diversity Act and our international obligations. The Storting has set targets for the predator species bear, gloupe, yerv, wolf and king eagle. The Labour Party will contribute to the management of a two-fold objective for Norwegian predatory policies in which it will ensure the sustainable management of all the major predatory game species in Norwegian nature, while at the same time ensuring the use of outlanding areas by agricultural and domestic interests, as well as ensuring the rapid and effective extraction of predatory animals, which are particularly close to the population and population, in accordance with the Nature Diversity Act, and where human quality of life is affected. There shall be a low threshold for the harvesting of wild game in pasture priority areas and there shall be a high threshold for the harvesting of wild game in priority areas. We're going to have a clear zone management and an effective regime for the extraction of predatory game when it doesn't threaten the survival of the population. Figures from Rovdata show that a significant number of wolves, gloats, yorks and bears are taken out through damage traps, hijackings and license hunts. However, cleaning operations report losses of grazing animals to queen eagles. The King's Eagle is a protected species in Norway, but according to Section 12 of the Roofing Game Regulation, the county can take a decision on the fall in damage. The preparedness must and must be high in order to minimise the loss of grazing animals. Withdrawals from wild game are important for the prevention of wild game injuries and loss of domestic and ovine animals. It is particularly important this year, when weather and snow conditions have been challenging for domestic farming and created a grazing crisis. For the Workers' Party, it was important to adopt a strengthening of the Nature Diversity Act § 18 which makes it clear that regional policy considerations are to be given significant importance when harvesting wild game once the stock target has been reached and that it does not conflict with our international obligations. The stock targets achieved shall be taken into account in the assessment of the take-off of wild game. The Labour Party is under the current predatory policy and the frameworks set out by the adopted predatory game agreements, which are based on the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. The Labour Party believes that the leaders of the agreements will help to mitigate the level of conflict between the predatory game management and the grazing industries and will once again clarify that we expect the authorities and the administration to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e788	The cleaning industry is in an incredibly demanding situation, which is also the reason why the centre party is promoting this proposal today. The ongoing grazing crisis is the worst crisis the reindustry has had in over 50 years. Three times as much snow as normal this year has done that the rain in both tronde layers, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark have not had access to enough food. There has been a grazing crisis in very many districts, and this is happening at the same time as the same areas are now heavily burdened with predators. Carnivores are a heavy burden on the reindeer, and for several years the calf loss in Northern and Troms has been very large, about 60 pst. Every year. Roof game in a clean area both disrupts and increases the energy used by the cleaners to withdraw from feeding grounds and from those areas where pastures are available. It's a serious situation the industry is now up in. Purgatory suffers great losses caused by both eagle, bear and yerv. There are major conflicts in these areas, and we note that the Environment Directorate will not, however, authorise the harvesting of wild game in several of these areas, which are actually grazing priority areas. The 2011 Robbery Agreement states that it should not be predatory game that represents a potential for damage, in calving areas for tamrein, so what we are now witnessing, is probably a breach of the predatory game agreement. What may surprise me most in this matter today is that the Progress Party is showing its true self, namely that they are only a supporting wheel party for the Left Party. Now it has also gone so far that the Food Authority in Trøndelag has notified grazing in a number of areas, areas that are grazing priority areas. This testifies to the fact that the predatory game policy we are pursuing in Norway today is out of control. The size of the incident has recently been addressed by the National Audit Office’s investigation into predatory game management, which points to a number of violations of the predatory game settlement. I can't get enough emphasis on how serious this situation is for reindustry, and how important it is that the Storting intervenes and helps to resolve the situation. It is therefore very disappointing that neither the Workers' Party nor the Advance Party are addressing this matter, because today we could actually have a decision in this Chamber that would mean a lot to the reindeer industry. I notice that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are not willing to address the situation, and I take that up with the proposal from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e797	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e802	As others have noted, the situation in the reindeer industry is in many places in the country at a demanding stage. Reinforced by the predatory challenge, the situation is critically multiple places. I think there's every reason to tighten up predatory policies in several areas. Also in the areas we're talking about here, it's decisive, for example. because if we are to have a predatory management that works, it must be trusted that in pasture-prioritised areas, the grazing animals are the priority – that there are not only predatory game zones and then free access for predators as a fin in pastures, without consequently giving birth permits. What I mean is the government's responsibility to follow up, and I expect that to be done. But the reason why we don't support the proposal of the Center Party today is that it's unusually little thought. In fact, this proposal is so little thought that even to the nations on the pitch, the representative Dale acknowledged that he had a few points. It's never happened before. So bad is the Central Party proposal that nations think I have a point -- that's crazy. It illustrates what's the main problem, that the proposal of the Center Party wouldn't give a faster killing loop in pasture-priority areas. It would rather delay them, because in the blink of an eye the Stortinget was going to start acting as a case handler on different traps in different areas, we are short-circuiting the administration that has to work and be effective. That is why we are voting against the proposal from the Centre Party – not because we do not think there should be more killings in these areas, not because we do not think that the Council of State has a responsibility to ensure that the environmental management actually manages the grazing priority areas like that, but because the proposal is extremely little thought. There's a little bit of the problem with the central party's zeal in the predatory debate. It becomes more important for them to create some examples, if necessary to plague the Left – it seems that as far as I'm fun sometimes – but it's more important than the case. It becomes more important than actually caring for the interests of grazing, and no one cares about it. Therefore, instead of sharpening these conflicts, the Center Party should help to dampen them and put in place a sensible management of pasture-priority areas. We and the Center Party are a few things about that, but the Center Party is not willing to take the load that is required to actually meet the two-part goal. It shall contribute to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e815	I can assure you that the sun is shining, and the Stortinget is approaching vacation, and I know myself relatively little plague. But I am always ready to answer questions and take suggestions that come to this Chamber, including this, and I would like to thank the Committee for the vote and, in particular, the Central Party for the proposal. I think it is important to stress that this matter – although I can agree with Mr Dale that the proposal is not very good, and should not be agreed – is at the bottom of a serious situation. What she's about is that this winter and spring have our very demanding for the domestic drift in Norway. The main reason for that, and the big difference from the second year to this year, is the weather and snow conditions that have created a grazing crisis. Cleaning is facing several challenges, such as: weather, snow conditions and the loss of pasture land give rise to considerable unrest. This winter and spring provide a good picture of the challenges that climate change can lead to for the reindeer industry. For several years, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has warned against these developments and pointed to research that factors such as climatic conditions, the number of clean grazing and grazing grounds are most important in explaining the challenges experienced by reindeer in the production and loss of tamrein. There is no inconsistency in the fact that it is necessary to extract from wild game, for the sake of grazing. So let's do that. Withdrawals are made every year, within the framework of international commitments, natural disasters, the two-part objective and the stock measure – all agreed by the Stortinget. I can, for example, indicates that the last three years have recorded 587 dead predators in Norway, an average of 196 every year. Distributed by species are 36 bears, 188 gauper, 289 yervar and 74 wolves. It's taken out predators, in line with the decision of the Storting. And then we're going to remember that there's more consideration to consider before giving permission to take out predatory game. It's about the ability of the predatory game population to survive and the extent to which there are satisfactory solutions other than extractions, and the Storting was clear that the management should follow the agreed stock targets and focus on them, and it does. Both when the individual population is above the target population and when the individual population is below the target population, it is important to consider what the Stortinget has agreed. The two-part goal is to keep the loss of grazing animals at the lowest possible level, and that means that there is enough space for the number of predators to shoot, and that the solution can't in any case be killing. But in a good part of the case, it is, and it is the administration well equipped to handle, in line with the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e835	Councils of State mentioned research. Now there is no doubt that eagles take grazing animals, both sheep and domestic animals. At the same time, I believe there is a need for increased knowledge about the role of the eagle in relation to the damage to grazing animals and how other factors are involved. I am therefore very pleased with the Fosen project, which will go from 2014, when it was started up, to 2022. Then I register that there is a similar project when it comes to tamrein in Troms. It should have started this year. So my question to the Council of State is: is the project in Troms in progress, and will the Council of State ensure the necessary and important involvement of the reindeer in that project?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e842	I agree with the representative, Mr Seestad, that it is important to know about predatory game policy in general, and that we also agree that we need more knowledge about eagles. We know a good deal, but the projects we've seen are very important in this way and in following up what the Storting wanted. I'm also going to make sure that we follow closely the project that you're going to have in the north. I have to admit that I don't have the status of how it is right now, but it's been a good pressure to get ahead of it, and we're going to get that knowledge. Otherwise, I can say that the population of the royal eagle is roughly at the target of the Stortinget, and I think the Stortinget should be pleased with that. And it's also possible to give birthrights according to the rules of the day, if there's a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e850	With the numbers that Rovdata is operating on, it looks like we're far above the population target of the king eagle. And then you show that you have other counting methods, so you might have been a little bit more unsure about the number material before, but I'm assuming that getting important and correct number material will be part of the assumption that this project will be successful. So I hope you get it fixed at least. And the question is, does the council agree that we have to get a number material and counting methods, so that we know how large the population is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e855	We have a good overview of the size of the population. For royalty as for all other predators, it will vary from year to year, and one will normally operate within a range. The size has also said that there is an interval of the stock target. But we have a good knowledge of it, and we get new knowledge every year. There is no reason at all at my discretion to doubt the numbers. They're being developed by our leading and most competent people in that field. Then I'll repeat that it's important to get more knowledge about the relationship between grazing animals and eagles. And the project that has also been called in Troms, we hope to get started as soon as possible. I hope we'll get started in the fall. And when it's stressed that it's important to cooperate with the reindeer industry, I totally agree with that, and I feel that cooperation is good around that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e862	We now see a very challenging situation in Trøndelag, where the Food Authority has notified the pasturage, among other things. in Grong and Namdalen. It is serious for those who are sheepy, but it is also serious for those who are clean. Crustaceans in pasture-priority areas must still be fed if the sheep are taken, and therefore the consequences will be great for the Sami domestic practice. The wild game agreement is quite clear that predators are not meant to constitute the harmful potential of grazing priority areas. Now we see that the Council of State rejects all applications for the killing of bears in this area. The breeding game agreement also states that it is considered that predator management is carried out in such a way that no grazing is required in grazing priority areas under the Animal Welfare Act. Why is it that the Council of State does not follow up the predatory game agreement and grant breeding permits to predators, which constitute a high potential for harm in grazing priority areas? And why isn't the Food Authority instructed to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e867	This is a very different theme from what Stortinget is now discussing, but I can still answer the question. The situation of the grazing industry in Trøndelag and the relationship with the bear have been demanding for 20 years. There's a lot to do about zoning, but that's the way it is. That means we're content to handle it in a good way. We have a high level of preparedness for that conflict. There were representatives from the Department of Travel in this area the longest this week, also my State Secretary was there, to meet the locals and industry and get a good picture of the situation. We take predators into pasture-priority areas by fallowing when the conditions are right for it, and that's the basis for it. So what the representative knows, something demanding that the Storting has set a stock target for the bear that we're well below. In order to follow up the Storting's intention, it means that there are some concerns that are particularly relevant in the case of insiders. But I can't stand here and handle the individual right now, at least not in a case that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e872	To follow up on the last one, the population has seen a target for different predators, that's right, but one has also said that in grazing priority areas, the grazing animals have priority. This means that pasture-priority areas cannot be used to meet the destination. If that's the understanding in the department, there's precision from the Storting on it pretty quickly. Nevertheless, I would like to challenge the Council of State on one thing, because now we have in these areas where there has been predatory damage in ours, seen that there are given birthrights, but they are given for extremely short time, completely down for two days – I think that is the shortest example we have seen. For all practical purposes, it is not possible to rig effective hunting by ending within such a short time of actual migration. So the question is, is there a willing to look at how the administration practices the killing loops in these areas so that a real way of picking up animals that do damage to pasture-priority areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e879	To take the first point: I mean absolutely that grazing animals should have priority in grazing priority areas. That's what the Storting has said, and that's what's at the root of the administration. That doesn't mean that we have standing cutting leaves outside predatory priority areas with good reason, but that means that the threshold is lower to take predators where they do damage, and it should be, the same way that he should be higher within predatory priority areas. When it comes to the length of precipices given, there are concrete assessments based on damage, terrain, season, etc., but when the question is whether I'm willing to go in and look at that kind of thing, I'm always there. I want us to have an effective harvesting of predators when there is a reason to do so, and when they do damage. Of course, this is something we base on the best professional knowledge and update constantly. I'm willing to look at that kind of question again, for all things, but if the permissions given in the specific areas have been good enough, I can't judge here and now. There's at least one thing I can never consider, it's whether the hunt is closed, there can't be a government council guarantee, it's the good felling layers that provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e886	Voengelh-Njørke is a southern Sami reindeer district. In the mid-1990s, they slaughtered 1,500 reindeer calves annually. A few years ago, they slaughtered one tenth. I talked to one of them last year. He slaughtered one single calf, and then little helps with the early slaughter of calves. Another despair is because he does not have calves to slaughter and does not pass on the food traditions to his children – to the next generation of southern men who were to continue feeding and tradition. The impactors in Northland are good. They're among the highest in the country. The reindeer are clear that predatory game is the main problem. The losses of calves in the Nordic region are over 60 pst. and have been doing it for years. How can the Minister defend that predatory game has become the main objective and that grazing has become a secondary objective? How can it be defended that no more predators are taken out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e893	The size has not agreed on a parent target and a child target. The majority has adopted a two-part objective in the field of predatory wildlife policy. It means that there is both a goal of having viable predatory populations and a goal of facilitating grazing. It's not conflict free, but that's what Stortinget has agreed, and we have to deal with that. We do that through the extraction of predators where it's at the root of it, we do it through zone management, and we do it not least through prey and other tools that provide to mitigate predator tax. I must also allow myself to say that it has been closed quite well, all the time it is now taken half as many grazing animals and predators as when the Senterpartiet steered this policy. So it's gone in the right direction, not in the wrong direction. Of course, in each area, the individual reindeer district, things can go up and down. We're trying as hard as we can to achieve the two-part goal, but in general, based on the long-term trends, there can be no doubt that it has gone in the right direction, all the time less grazing animals are now taken by predators than before. It's because we have a policy that balances the two aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e902	Yes, unfortunately, many have already given up. The county's websites say that predatory game is the main goal. And since the Council of State now says that this is not the case, I expect him to immediately change the county officials' websites, so that it no longer says that predatory game is a main goal. There would be a step on the way. It has been documented many times that eagles take reincalves, and they take the adult clean. But then the undocumented claims from left-wing politicians come that it's not useful to take out eagles because they just want to come back again. There is a completely unsubstantiated argument. Why does the Minister listen to such undocumented arguments, but not to reindeer experience-based knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e911	I listen to all the knowledge, not at least all the evidence about the loss of predators to predators. When it comes to the reindeer industry, there's no doubt about it, and I also said that in my main post, there's a very challenging situation right now. This is mainly due to climatic conditions, including: The snow conditions that have been in winter. Fortunately, the government has shown some initiative in meeting that situation, both with money and with help, so that the industry can get through this. That's what I'm very busy about. Then I have also answered – thoroughly, in my opinion – questions about the relationship between the eagle population and the loss of grazing animals earlier in this exchange of lines. But I'm because we're getting even more knowledge about it. That's why the government is working on research projects around it. We have a stock target for the king eagle that Stortinget has agreed to. We're kind of in the middle of it. And we have an important task in the future to make sure that the reindeer industry can also be viable and viable. It's about a lot of things. It is also a question of predatory policy. That is why I think the government is pursuing a balanced policy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e920	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e928	First of all, I have to complain about the reindeer owners. The centre party would have liked to have a large majority for the proposal to have a lower threshold for the take-off of wild game in the reindeer calving country. Your reindeer have gone through a triple crisis now – a hard winter with the worst grazing crisis of 50 years, coronary crisis and predatory game crisis. Betacrisa and coronacrisa are exceptional conditions. Unfortunately, the crude game crisis has become constant. But the positive thing in this difficult situation is that we've heard strong, clear Sami voices that have told us what it's like to see the reinsimla trying to wake up the predatory calf. They've shown us the reindeer calf that gasps for air, with the lungs punctured by eagles. We've seen a picture of purely killed by predators. I thought this would lead to the majority today for reason, for the future. But the Left is given control over the government's predatory policy, with the Progress Party as a supporting party. I hope the reindeer find strength to continue. The pendulum has to turn around. Cleaning is important for several reasons. It's nutrition, it's Sami culture, and it's a sustainable production of healthy and good food. The fight of the reindeer owners is important for the future. It has been demonstrated that experience-based knowledge does not reach. There must be methods in place for it to be included in the administration. Nordic research has helped to provide evidence that experience-based knowledge only crumbles before it is put into practice. It is difficult when people have so different understanding and views of both knowledge, nature and culture. Both the Left Party and the Advance Party now support the understanding of the desktop, where predatory game is a primary objective, and thus grazing becomes a secondary objective. The experience of spring this year in Børgefjell is that 90 dead reindeer must remain before a single litter permit is granted. We're not going to have it that way. That is why we would make a proposal to adopt a decision of principle which actually establishes what the whole Biggest outside the Left was in favour of during the Stortinges' consideration of the National Audit Office's report on the Robbery Administration. All of the other games would have faster withdrawals than the left. The desk manager calls for more knowledge when it suits them, and will not acquire knowledge when it is not appropriate. Already research reports in 1998 proved that eagles are reindeer. [[President clubs]] Further research is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e941	The winter of the year has been the worst in the past 50 years with regard to the grazing crisis in the sewage industry. The cleaners have now hung themselves through the winter and meet an enormously large predatory press. There is disturbance in the calf in addition to the direct loss of animals taken by the predator. Tree layers have all the four large predators and a large increase in the royal eagle population, which is also a great predator on reindeer calves. This is a totally unacceptable situation for grazing industries. The Ministry now operates in addition and cuts the breeding area of the bear, as they refuse breeding authorisations in pasture-priority areas of Grong, Namsskogan, and that they also introduce grazing in the same areas. There was an extremely bloody summer last year – I think 25 pst. of what was paid on a national basis was in this area. When the sheep is lost by grazing, the pressure on domestic animals in these municipalities and in the neighbouring municipalities increases. I am very surprised when the Council of State answers that my question has nothing to do with the Sami reindeer and this matter. Does the Council of State mean that the bear becomes a vegan if you remove 3,000 sheep from this area? Does the Council not realize that there will then be enormous pressure on the Sami reindeer, which has the animals in the same areas? They have relocation ladders through these municipalities, and the animals graze in the neighbouring municipalities. Norway has ratified the ILO Convention and is obliged to provide Sami language and culture, and domestic farming is indisputably the bearer of the Sami culture. Southern Sami culture will disappear if we allow predators to take precedence even in the grazing priority areas, even in domestic areas. And that's what's about to happen now. The two-part objective says that we should place equal emphasis on the welfare of grazing animals as sustainable management of predators, but today's government only pays attention to the fact that they should have the greatest possible presence of predators. It's not just about bears, it's also about predatory species where we now have to halve to get down to the stock target. Even wolves are having trouble getting out. So you almost have to wonder how you're going to take care of the grazing industries. Then I must say that I am disappointed in the other parties on the Stortinget. I am particularly disappointed by the Progress Party, which has gone hard and said that now they are out of government, and now there should be another dance in predatory policy. Now, in fact, the roll-out decision and the two-part objective were to be followed up. Unfortunately, they are only a support party for the Left in predatory policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e954	The councils begin by saying that the sun shines, and he is little troubled. I think it is rather arrogant to open an important debate to many people throughout Norway in that way. I wish he was more troubled, on behalf of all the reindeers who are now in a very difficult situation. There shall be no predatory game with harmful potential in grazing priority areas, but the government, with the Left in the head, pursues a policy that makes predatory pressures extremely high in many areas, and it is felt that there are ever new advances to train effective pests when necessary. Last week we got an example in reindeer areas in my own county, Hedmark, when a bear entered the reindeer pasture district in Engerdal from Sweden. The reindeer immediately applied for permission for damages, because it's in the middle of calving time and there's a lot of clean there. It was rejected because the bear was part of a research project in Sweden and the research project was paid by the Norwegian State. Here, then, Norway has started a research project on bear on the Swedish side near vulnerable pastures, and when the bear went from there into Norway, it was used as an argument not to trap that bear. It's totally unacceptable. Instead, the bear began to be chased back by helicopter, and it is not without the risk of the reindeer in the area. The bear came to Sweden last week, then it went a few days, and then it was back in Norway. There was a further application for a patent for damages. It was also not given until the SNO had been out and found damage clean. I think we have too poor a system and too little efficiency when animals have to die in order to obtain a perpetrator's permit. The whole point of a claim permit is to avoid damage. The reindeer have a constant responsibility to ensure the welfare of their animals and to take care of their cleanness, and they must ensure that the cleanness is not damaged. Then the state must do the same and use the means to trap predators entering pastures. It's like when there's a bear in a reindeer area, it's a damage hazard, because the bear takes it clean – and it's a fact. Finally, as I said, it was granted a penitentiary permit. The bear to share is the GPS mark. It does not have access tothe killing laws in Norway. In Sweden, they get it. It is another thing that the Council of State could have done something to provide more efficient predatory management for the benefit of grazing, even in Sami areas. We need better efficiency, and we need fewer predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e967	When the Environment Directorate does not authorise the withdrawals needed to trap predatory game in calving countries, although 90 dead reindeer have been found, it is absolutely necessary to adjust the practice. The representative Dale took the nations for his sight. I do not think the representative could have read the whole article, only where his name stood, because the point of the leader of the nation is that the proposal of the Central Party is good and necessary. It is serious and absolutely necessary to adjust withdrawal practices when the threshold is as high as it is today. This does not apply to individual decisions, which are to adjust practices for harvesting wild game in calving countries. It's serious to take care of an industry, a food production, and it's serious to take care of the Sami culture. So this is that our proposal is unprofessional and goes into a single decision, a false premise is presented by the Progress Party to try to hide that they are a supporting party for the Left in government. When we promoted the proposal, it was documented in Børgefjell that 40 calves had been taken by eagles. The law to which the State must deal makes it almost impossible to take an eagle out, even though the royal eagle population is absolutely viable. Now it's the reindeer that's in danger, not eagles. For example, my experience is that when predatory game subjects will have impact assessments on bear zones and find facilities for grazing, other industries, community, hunting and other factors than the pure bear professions, then the desktop manager is training that knowledge acquisition. There's enough knowledge about the bear to put in a bear zone. It's not like that if you have a real, two-part goal. If you have predatory game as your main goal, maybe there's enough bear-discipline knowledge. If you have a two-part objective, you have to have knowledge and have some other points. Sami knowledge has a long history. It is based on observations and practices based on experience over time, and reindeer management has adapted to changes all the time. But their experience needs to be given much greater space in the game management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e988	A few points at the end of the debate: I want to start by encouraging the representative, Enger Mehl, to try to sit and listen to an entire big debate and what is being said, and not just come in jumping in when she's going to report what she herself has on her heart. In that case, the representative of Enger Mehl would have found out that the reason I said I was late when I started my post was that the representative of Jon Georg Dale just before took a look at the fact that he liked to bother the Council of State. That's why. I'm sorry if that falls in bad soil, but I'm going to say that it has confirmed the status of the Center Party as Norway's most moodless party, because I'm just going to keep talking about how serious the situation in grazing is. It takes the government seriously and has seen a series of powerful responses to remedy it. So to the representative, Mr. Greni: I answered the question to the representative about the bear in Trøndelag, but the reason I started to answer as I did was that the questions I have now received through the debate, and the posts that have come are about the bear, it's about you, it's about the eagle, and it's about the Northernland and the Trendelag and the Wolfesona. I think that when we are going to discuss a predatory game issue – and they are very important – we should discuss exactly what the representatives propose to discuss, and not the entire predatory game management every time. Then there will be an unbridled debate for everyone to join. But I answered all the questions, and I also answered that question. So I think it's strange that the representative Mossleth is talking about what she calls desktop management, not interested in knowledge. It's a little strange that it's coming, all the time I've just shown to the research projects that have been started by the administration to gain more knowledge. That's good. The manager is busy with more knowledge, so he acquires more knowledge. So I would also say that I think it's a little strange that the representatives of the Central Party are trying to present this debate as if they're too tamre and everyone else is against, and then implicitly for predators. It is with respect that there is no basis for expressing the opinion or the proposal of the Central Party. What they're proposing is to ask the government to immediately ensure the extraction of wild game in the domestic calving area. Now it is not agreed, it looks like, but I have to admit that I found it a little difficult to understand what it would mean if one in that case decided. We're taking predators out into the domestic calving area. We've done it before, we're going to do it in the future. Is that what they're asking me to do, I'm just going to go to an area and then take out a predator that might be there? That's not how we run the administration. We take predators when they do damage. It should be done in areas where there should be no predators. There is a broad plurality in the Stortinget here some about – the Progress Party, Right, Labour Party, Christian People's Party, Left, SV and the Environment Party Dei Green. I think all those parties -- I think I can talk on behalf of them -- are occupied with the domestic industry and occupied with the fact that we're going to take care of the Storting's prey settlement and the two-part goal. The fact that the centre party here stands on its own proposal – which I have to admit is difficult to understand what actually meant – I think I should encourage more reflection for the centre party's part than for the large-scale majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1005	The President will point out that we do not characterise other parties as neither moodless nor other things. After the President's experience, moodlessness is fairly evenly distributed. The representative Siv Mossleth has spoken twice in the past and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1012	I can tell the Minister what a majority for our proposal would mean. That would have meant that in the future one in a reindeer district could, for example, have Børgebjell taken predators out when they applied for it. This year they applied for it about April 22 for the first time. They notified the disaster. They saw that it had to be taken out predators. With this decision, the government could have given a clear message that we should lower the threshold. We can take out predators when we see the danger, and don't have to wait until 90 animals are killed. That would mean it. Absolutely it would have meant it. It is clear that this proposal is very important to save future food production. It's important for the reindeer. It is important for the sheep industry and it is important for environmentally friendly food production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1017	Once again, the Council of State repeats that I am talking about things that do not concern this proposal for a representative. I've been there and promoted it. This proposal for a representative is about caring for the Sami reindeer industry in a particularly vulnerable situation following a particularly demanding one. If the Council of State hasn't found out that there's Sami reindeer in the northern part of Trendelag, I'm a little worried. Then I think the Council of State would focus more on getting into the predatory situation here in Norway than being concerned about the mood in the Center Party. – It’s the first time we’ve been accused of being the most moodless party on Stortinget. The situation in the North Trøndelag is such that the Sámi reindeer will soon kneel if they are not helped to take out any of the predators. Now the Council of State has put in place a practice in which he cuts the bear zone. The neighbouring municipalities, the periphery of the bear zone in Trøndelag, are now to be refused an application for the breeding permit. All applications for a breeding permit sent this year have been rejected on the grounds that it may be within the area. There are registered two male bears, two different individual male bears, but because it may be inside there, they refuse to give birth to those male bears. This means, of course, that if one removes the 2 000 to 3 000 sheep grazing in this area, they are grazed and have to be moved to alternative areas, which by the way are not available in these municipalities, the consequence is likely to have to be slaughtered. It will of course mean that the reincalves and reincarnates that are in the area become the next prey of bears and other predators, precisely because the sheep is gone, which is perhaps easier to get hold of because it jumps slower. We see that even in the Holtål it's discussed whether they might have to expand the bear zone, and it's an area that's Sami summer grazing areas. It is clear that if a sheep have this predatory press that has been in the last four to five years, throughout the summer season, and after they have a terriblely poor condition because there have been closed pastures throughout the area – there has been so much snow that they continue to drive and break the seatways there – a person can imagine the conditions that are under calving, and not least when predator attacks occur in these areas. I hope the Council of State shows a little more understanding also for the Sami reindeer in Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1026	Governments are urging us not to take the full width of predatory policy every time this is discussed. But that's exactly what we have to do every time because we have a two-part goal in Norway that is conscious and over time not being followed up. We have a bias where predators win over business interests and pasturage interests. I also react to the fact that the Council of State is going up here and has comments on whether the representative Mr Mehl has been following the debate or not. In any case, the representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, was given his trust in the last election, as opposed to the representative, Mr. Rotevatn. So that's what I thought the Council of State would do too well. What surprises me most in the debate: In the previous period, we had people from the countryside – Knut Storberget in the Labour Party, Gunnar Gundersen in Right. The people are away from the Storting. It's kind of the same with a Jon Georg Dale from a support party that doesn't support the proposal that the Central Party has here. We need people in every party who understand the situation in the countryside, and who are in line with what is necessary to ensure a balanced solution when it comes to the two-part objective of predatory policy. I also record my debts to the state council that the Senterpartiet is moodless. Center Party is not a moodless party. We work for values that are important to us. We work for something we believe in. And we work for something that occupies an incredible number of people around the country. We want to be their voice. That it is owed by a state council to be moodless, the state council would like to write on Twitter, but I didn't think the council should say that in Stortinget. It's not like we can all walk around and be a joke.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1037	The President will stress that we do not characterize each other in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1043	It is quite possible that the Progress Party only operates with predatory policies to plague the Left, but in that case I stand at my invitation to the Council of State to let themselves be plagued, because it is serious for people. We can sit here in town and the sun shines, and we can sit in our office, but out there it's hard when predators come into reindeer pastures, and especially now that there's calving time, which is the most vulnerable time of year. Nevertheless, it is felt that the population is not effective in the case of injury traps, as I pointed out in my previous post. It almost seems that the Council of State has some problems keeping an eye on the debate because it is too extensive. It's not that long since we were here discussing something as concrete as counting methods for the bear population. It was not that such a concrete proposal led to a drastic change in the predatory policy of the Left. I don't think it has much to say. But to sum up a little bit, I have some suggestions for what the Council of State can do about completely concrete things to improve the situation of reindeer operations, which is what we are talking about. No. 1: He can reduce the general predatory pressure. There are too many predators both in the wolf zone and in other parts of the country, and it is difficult for many because they are simultaneously being pressured from many predators, such as animals. eagles and bears, or wolves and bears and eagles, or other combinations of the large predators, which create a difficult overall situation. No. 2: State councils can make damage withdrawals more effective. Some suggestions for this are, for example: to clarify that research projects in Sweden cannot be used as a basis to stop harm-reduction in Norway in grazing areas. No. 3: The Council of State may already give the Injury Laws in Engerdal access to the GPS tracking of the bear they are trying to trap. It would make the damage both more effective and more humane, because it would have less activity in the mountain areas where it is both pure and predatory and other animals. That's what's a bit of a problem when we sit and discuss, often far away from the everyday life people experience out there. You forget that this is really very practical. It's so practical that there are reindeer who have animals out there, they're afraid of their animals, they have to spend a lot of energy, time and money looking after them. Governments and government really have the key to helping them, but the way there is a long way. The road there is many e-mails, many telephones, applications and rejections and a government council that sits on top and does not understand everyday life. Then it's going to be very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1060	We infantry is known to be a voice people, and I thought I would be today as well. I think the Center Party wants people in the districts well, and I even believe they want to feed well. The problem is that today's proposal undermines it. So it's not a reluctance to actually have a management that valued the grazing priority areas and grazing industries – on the contrary: we wouldn't have voted against the proposal if it actually took care of it. The problem with the proposal of the Central Party – and it is almost strange if so many speakers from the Central Party go up on this chair without having read their own proposal and analyzed the problem it may have for the administrator – is that if the Storting should start going into single cases, give automatic killing permits without having legal secrets and justifying it with similar delegated to the administrator today, each killing hole will end up in the Storting, with later proceedings, and it will be harder to get fields in grazing priority areas than it is today. That's where the centre party stumbles in this case, because in their eagerness to do well, they have put forward a proposal that will help the opposite. In a party that has otherwise tried to stand together with the Center Party on these questions, a non-one representative who believes that the proposal of the Centre Party is good for the feeding industry – not in any of the other parties. Nevertheless, the Center Party is overconfident that they are right, and everyone else is wrong. Either there's an attempt at bluff, or one just got so stuck in his own rhetoric that one forgets to open the eye and see what the world looks like to others. For if there are proposals for treatment in the Storting which, in fact, strengthen the legal basis for extracting predators in pasture-priority areas, then the Progress Party is in favour. But we're not because the Storting short-circuits the proceedings, and with that, it makes the proceedings any longer and makes it harder to get rid of pasture-priority areas. It will soon be the consequence of the proposal of the Center Party, and then one has come to the point that one in his eagerness to do well is exacerbating the situation of the pasturage that one says one should take care of. It is the solid short ending of the Centre Party in this debate, illustrated by repeated contributions from several representatives, and I would recommend the Centre Party – with which we will form a number of figures in other matters about predators – actually to reconsider its own position in this matter, for here it is the Centre Party that unfortunately is on the wild track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1073	It was not intended to prolong the debate when I spoke last, but there have been so many serious debts and allegations in this debate that I felt I had to answer. And now we have another good round. I thought the representative Jon Georg Dale was holding a good post right now. It's not because the Left and the Progress Party are so very few in the Robbery policy. On the contrary, we have quite different views on predatory policy. But when the representatives, from the parties in the Storting who want a lot more predators, and those who want a lot fewer, at least there is one thing about that, that the proposal of the Center Party is bad, it should perhaps prompt a little reflection of those who have made that proposal. A few comments on the various articles that came after me: I can assure the representative Heidi Greni that I am well aware of the fact that there is reindustry in Trøndelag and north of Trøndelag, that there is a bear there, and that there is sheep that is taken, but I feel that the representative Greni in his posts and questions to me is talking about very different situations – the bear takes sheep, the bear takes tamrein, inside the sona and outside the sona. All these are important questions, but, as I said, we cannot deal with absolutely all predatory issues throughout the country in every debate. That being said, I am busy with the situation in Namdalen and the situation that has been there for several years. That's why the ministry was traveling there the second time this week, with both political leadership and administration in place, because we take it seriously and follow the situation as closely as we can, and saw the necessary action taken. The proposals to which the representative Mr Eger Mehl refers and wants me to put into action are proposals which have been rejected by a broad majority of people quite recently. There's nothing a government council can do, even if the Center Party thinks it does. The representative Pollestad believes it is important that we should be able to talk about the two-part goal in all predatory debates. I totally agree with that, and that's why I do it. But that was not what I addressed in my post, nor was it the criticism he answered. It is also a little special to suggest that there are only representatives from one party in this room and not representatives from all the other parties – the overwhelming plurality, coming from all over the country – who understand the whole country. Fortunately, I believe that representatives from both the Right Party, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and all the other parties actually do. I am very much in favour of the Storting being the leader of the predatory game policy. I am very much in favour of the Stortinget adopting stock targets, legal bases and having important debates on this, but I agree with the representative Dale that Stortinget should not and cannot sit and deal with each individual litter. In that case, it would take quite a while for them to be given. If you are very busy doing that, I would rather recommend that you search for a job at the county office. Then a person will be happy to process such rights. The political leaders are going to lay down the Storting and, fortunately, they are quite much in agreement. I mean, this spring too has shown. The fight against organised crime is a key element in the management of the predatory game policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1094	It's almost a little shocking to hear the good tone between the Council of State, which also represents the Left, and the Progress Party in this matter. It bears witness to the fact that a great many have pointed out from this pulpit, that the Progress Party, when it comes to bringing about changes in predatory policy, is at last only a supporting party for the Left in government. It is a serious situation for the grazing industry. There is a serious situation for many families out there who feel the pressure that predators are now putting on in those areas. I was just informed that there has been a bear attack in the municipality of Bardu last night, where there is also a Sami reindeer. They have applied for a penitentiary permit today, and I hope that it will be followed up immediately. It is not certain that the Council of State was aware of this, but now he has at least received information from the pulpit here. The centre party is committed to a change in predatory policy. When you look at who has spoken in this debate today, it's just the centre party that's dedicated to making a change. The representative of Dale shoots from this pulpit down the proposal of the Central Party. Well, this proposal has been in the committee for a while, so I can ask why the Progress Party has not promoted its own proposals on the matter if they believe that the proposal of the Central Party is so bad. I hope the representative of Dale can answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1105	The representative, Emilie Enger Mehl, has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1110	The measures I suggested that the Council of State could look at, he can, of course, promote the Storting even if he thinks they are good, and I think that most can be carried out without a coercive treatment, because it is not right that this has been voted down. No research projects in Sweden can be used to prevent harm-reduction in Norway. The pressure on predators can be reduced, because the stock target for many of the large predators is overfilled, and if you look at the bear, for example, we had just a debate where we indicated that based on the official censuses from Rovdata, there are at least three bear elongations recorded in Trøndelag last year. The official number is 1.9. So why can't the Council of State investigate it a little bit more if he's very interested in doing something about the situation? And the Progress Party suggested earlier this year to GPS-label all the wolves to make it easier to get the wolves, so I think there's also a majority in the Storting to use GPS tracking to trap the bears if you want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1115	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1132	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to three lines of response will be given after the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1139	It's been a very special agricultural settlement because of the coronary crisis. At the time of the negotiations, there were no fewer than 400 000 unemployed. In this situation, the parties decided to enter into a simplified agricultural settlement. They could have chosen to postpone, but there was a need to do something about the target prices and contribute to predictability of agriculture. I will commend the parties for that. They have been responsible, and both the Norwegian Farmers' Associations and Norwegian Farmers' Associations have thus shown solidarity with other parts of the industry that have been hard hit. Agriculture as a whole has been relatively little hit by the coronary apathy. Although we have seen that parts of the industry – e.g. additional industries, those that had been placed on the market by Horeca, and the green sector – have been hit, there have been few major consequences of the pandemic. With regard to labour problems, the government has been on the road and put in place measures to get labour in place and set up a safety net with opportunities for crop damage compensation due to a lack of labour. As a basis for the negotiations, the parties agreed that existing arrangements should be used and that the number of issues had to be limited. The agreement has adjusted to a few arrangements, and the development of policies has shifted to other settlements. The Contracting Parties have allocated an increase in appropriations for the agricultural agreement of 350 million. NOK 2021, and it is particularly important to obtain the part of the agreement that facilitates the increased production of goods we are not self-sufficient in today, such as cereals, potatoes, fruit and vegetables. The most important thing we do for food security is that we manage to maintain continuous production, and that facilitates this agricultural agreement. In addition, the agreement has a clear district profile through a reinforced channelling policy and through higher grants for outings. We have also introduced strengthening shipping arrangements and increased regional subsidies for fruit, berries and vegetables. Then I think that the parties also need to be praised for finding room for climate action. All parties have shown that they are forward-looking. We already know that agriculture really wants to improve in terms of climate work, and has entered into an agreement with the government on that, which is followed up here. We are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1159	When we shut the country down, we have to deal with less energy than we normally do, thought the Right in New Year 18 here a day. What are the consequences that Angell Gimse would have for our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1164	I assume that I am now indirectly asked about food grain stores, and what can happen if the traffic in trade to Norway is broken. If that happens, of course, we have to deal with less energy, but we have a lot of grain in stock in the mills already today. And then we're going to say 100 pst. self-sufficiency through the fish we sell abroad. We have to cope with less energy in a crisis situation. Every day, we're going to deal with what we're self-sufficient with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1169	If people get hungry and scared, much of our society is just in danger of going into disintegration. That's what happens if we're going to be able to cope with less energy than we normally do, in a crisis situation. We don't have to go back further than 2010 under what was called the Arab Spring in the Middle East and in North Africa, where increased bread prices were an important part of the riots and unrest and what is still instability in a whole region today. That is why the Right's position on self-sufficiency is unfortunately theoretical. Rather, we have to base ourselves on the world of reality and see how it relates in practice. The Swedish Defence Research Institute has done so, and they have correctly pointed out exactly what happened this year, for example. Russia banned the export of wheat, Kazakhstan did the same thing, and Vietnam did the same with rice. Why doesn't the Right Defence Research Institute take seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1174	I believe that the covid-19 situation showed us that we may never have been better equipped for such a pandemic that we were facing. The shelves were emptied. It was due to hamstering. Then we saw an agriculture and a food industry that backed up and produced it. They doubled the production of meat, doubled the production of flour. Eggs were sold as never before, and we saw that we were able to meet the demand we experienced as a result of covid-19. We also did not have any problems with our trading partners. Several countries in Europe saw the importance of continuing to act, not being a protectionist, as the Sandtrøen and the Workers' Party have tried to make it look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1179	There is a need for more money for investments in agriculture. One of the issues addressed by the Centre Party is to strengthen the so-called IBU scheme – the money that goes to investment and farm development over the agricultural agreement, but which can also be made available in other ways. In Bondebladet on 18 June 2020, Right-wing spokesperson Margunn Ebbesen says that Right-wing wants to strengthen the system of IBU funds. I've got this fasitite right now. There will be no strengthening of this. My question is: was it the Left or Christian People's Party that stopped Right's desire to get more money for investments in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1186	I find it strange to see how much the opposition wants to wrap up in the agricultural negotiations. We see that the Center Party today is proposing a crisis package arrangement that you want to spend 1.1 billion. kr on into the agricultural negotiations. It does not belong in the agricultural negotiations at all. The representative Pollestad now comes and wants to talk about the IBU funds, into the agricultural negotiations. We know that the agricultural negotiations this year were very limited because of the situation. This would be part of the Corona package, Action Package 3. We're going to discuss that tomorrow, so we're going to postpone it until then.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1191	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1197	Norway is the country of opportunity, and we have great cards on hand to ensure that people are safe for food, because in Norway we run agricultural and food policy democratically, together. The treatment of the agricultural notification, which is the top and leading document of agricultural policy in Norway, makes it clear that the majority of the population want to strengthen food production by using the natural resources we have in Norway. Today, the development of agriculture is contrary to what the Stortinget has decided together. Cereal areas have been weakened in all counties in recent years, and areas in Western and Northern Norway are being abandoned. This is the opposite of what Stortinget has decided on for agricultural policy in Norway. If we are just going to deal with the agricultural settlement, the red-green parties, together with the Christian People's Party, have a clear wording that the degree of self-sufficiency, based on Norwegian resources, should be corrected for feed imports. Over the last few weeks and months, on the other hand, we have seen an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party who has spent a lot of energy in debate columns going straight with this thinking and making it like self-sufficiency is not too low. This is alarming, because the Council of State is going to deliver on what the Stortinget has decided, and we are going to see time and time again that it is being challenged, and that there is no follow-up to decisions and clear policies that the Stortinget uses. Today's debate has to be primarily about what we are going to do in the future, because the year's settlement has been greatly simplified. So the important question today is how the agricultural policy of the year in which we are now inside, and beyond, is to meet what the Biggest has actually decided together, with the majority that still apply. It's like people in Norway have chosen parties that through their programme are for increased self-sufficiency, corrected for what we import from soybean or grain from other countries, and I'm convinced that people in Norway want a development where we actually get more security. Out on the grassroots, it's a fact that we can't create security for people if we just have balls, but we don't have food. That is what the debate on self-sufficiency and preparedness really must be about in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1213	The representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen is one of those who in many cases draws up a scare image of Norwegian security of supply, for which there is no coverage. And in that context, the word that the representative likes to use is simply the ‘self-sufficiency rate’ and the figure that shows how much of the food sold in Norway is produced in Norway. For emergency reasons, it is not the level of self-sufficiency that is relevant, it is the level of coverage. And when we talk about a self-sufficiency rate of 50 pst, my question is to the representative: what is the coverage in Norway, that is, to what extent are we able to supply ourselves with carbohydrates, proteins and fats?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1220	The degree of self-sufficiency, in fact, from products based on agricultural production, is essentially about how much plants we produce in Norway, either plants that we eat ourselves, such as cereals, vegetables, fruit and berries, or plants that we produce, and with which we feed the animals. That's the whole essence of and the reason we have an agriculture. In the real world, it will always be that most of the calories we consume – both myself and the representative Nilsen and everyone in this room – come from food based on agricultural production. Even I'm very, very happy in fish, but it only forms a small part of the daily energy I consume, even though I eat quite a lot of fish. So that's the very practical relationship in self-sufficiency, security and preparedness, and we can never get away from it. And if the country is shut off along the coast, we have the practical problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1227	This was not an answer to the question of what is the coverage in Norway, nor is it an answer to what kind of security of supply we will see in a crisis situation. The difference between self-sufficiency and coverage is that the degree of self-sufficiency says something about how much pineapple we sell and eat, in Norway. The coverage says something if we're able to feed our own people. I want to repeat the question, but I do not expect that there will be any more answers to it after that. But it can be tempting, in a slightly untimely way, in a serious matter, simply to ask the representative Sandtrøen: The coverage rate is 90 pst. That means that we are far on our way to self-sufficiency if the crisis should come. That means that there is no crisis as to whether we can feed people. It is not a crisis with regard to cereals, it is not a crisis with regard to fish, it is not a crisis with regard to meat. It's a crisis of sugar, cocoa and pineapple. And then my question is, which of the measures the representative has promoted, or proposed, will improve the supply of cocoa, chocolate and pineapple?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1234	I think the reason why there's going to be such a big gap between what the Bighold has actually decided, and what's happening on the ground is that there's too many representatives who don't think about what food is about in practice. If we go to World War II, I think you had other concerns than thinking about whether we had cocoa in Norway. That's not the kind of thing we're talking about, and I think the representative Nilsen knows well. During this year's crisis, we suggested that we get extra potatoes in the ground now in ours, so that we have extra calories for the autumn and winter. That's the very practical context. So you can have theoretical lectures on BI and other places about coverage and other concepts, but this is about soil-dwelling relationships, and then the question is how much plants do we produce in Norway? And if we use less soil in Norway, we get fewer plants and less energy that we can consume in our daily food.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1241	There is a total increase that has been behind the income target for agriculture. My question to the representative Sandtrøen is how one has intended to meet the Storting income targets, while one signals that one will reverse the lifting of the production ceiling, as I read it, back to the status quo before 2014? There are only two ways of raising agricultural incomes through political intervention – either agreement between the parties to raise the target price, which would weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian food and could challenge customs protection, or increase the allocation of the State budget, making self-employed even more dependent on support schemes in order to continue their activity. And if farmers are required to produce less volume than they do today, strong income per unit of output must be compensated, using either one or both of these political grips. So what's the Workers' Party model to achieve the income target?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1246	The Labour Party model is a comprehensive policy that ensures a better economy by producing milk and meat on the Norwegian natural resources. And we can do that by means of several things: we can increase the district grant on meat, which will undoubtedly be positive for all the producers that the Reten is talking about. We can raise the grazing premium. We can, for example: Make sure that, as the red-green government did, we look at the agreements we have within customs. Is it so that it's smart to look at percentage inches? Interventions are to be made in the field by area, so that the policy is linked, and that we get self-sufficiency up, so that the safety of people in Norway is increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1251	That's the line change. The President would like to remind you that the President must also be addressed during the exchange of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1258	We are in a slightly special situation, and the year's agricultural settlement bears the mark that an agreement has been reached in a very extraordinary situation. Because of the coronary crisis, this is a simplified agricultural settlement and not as extensive as it normally is and should be. The Koronacrisa we would like to be in addition, but simplification is of the good. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that when the Progress Party had the Minister of Agriculture, a working group was set up to look at simplifications of the instruments in the agricultural agreement. The Bureau was chaired by the County Council of Hordaland, or now Vestland, Lars Sponheim. The report was presented in 2016, but simplifications in the agricultural agreement are something the Progress Party will work more ahead. The active substances must be as simple and transparent as possible. It will make everyday life easier for farmers and give less bureaucracy. But back to this year's agricultural agreement. It is important that more food is produced in Norway. There is overproduction of some foods, while there is a relatively small production of other foods, especially in fruit and vegetables. It is positive that there is an increased rate of green production, where Norway can produce much more to its advantage. Koronacrisa has focused more on the importance of producing locally. Consumers need to be told that Norwegian raw materials have the best quality and the most environmentally friendly production. We'll never be a big producer of bananas and avocados in Norway, we still have to import this, but on the other hand, new technology offers more opportunities than before. We believe that there is a high potential for Norwegian products on the international market, especially when it focuses on sustainable and environmentally friendly production. It seemed that there was no discussion as to whether private people would be allowed to buy milk in this year's agricultural agreement. As we see from the situation around now, consumption of drinking milk is decreasing, and cheese is increasing. There is something you should be able to look at and include in the next settlement or earlier. When cheese production and consumption rise, it also means that you can use much more milk and get rid of much of the overproduction we have of milk. It is possible to get a system that allows those who want to produce cheese, for example. Synnoses The Find, may be able to receive the tens of millions of litres they need to increase production, so that overproduction of milk is reduced. Overall, this agricultural settlement was a simplified settlement, but the Progress Party supports the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1273	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1279	When the Progress Party went out of government, some in the Progress Party said it was like getting out of prison. One of the things that one did while one was in, was to go in for a pretty total ban on using ants to produce food. One would like to build shopping malls or parking spaces, but a total ban – almost – on the cultivation of bogs. This is a prohibition for which there is not a real multiple on Storing. The centre party has put in the setting a proposal asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a new case of ant cultivation, which assumes that it should initially not be a ban, but allow, on terms. So it is not supported by the Progress Party. Why does not support the Progress Party proposal No. 2 to the contrary?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1286	When it comes to changes in the law on the cultivation of ants, we did our part to get as good conditions as possible through regulation, which it really has become. To answer the question directly to Pollestad: No, we do not support the Pollestad proposal, which is about to encourage changes in regulations. As long as we have a regulation, as long as we have a law that allows for strict measures in the cultivation of ants, we will not support such a proposal, which makes changes to the regulation. To make changes in the cultivation of ants, we get to promote a bill that says it's allowed to grow ants – done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1293	This was a little difficult to understand, but then my question is: If the Center Party takes an initiative, a cottage or during the summer, to produce a bill that will allow it to use ants to produce food, where we are to be able to set conditions in special situations, in terms of either climate or biological deficiency – in terms of, for example, the Labour Party will be the ones who tilt the weight of this plurality – will we then have the vote of the Advance Party, or is it a pleasure with the situation we have today, with the ban on the cultivation of ants?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1298	Yes, it's going to be exciting to see who tilts a bowl of weight on such a proposal. Then at least I'm not sure what's going on. If the Centre Party succeeds in promoting such a proposal before the Advance Party, we shall support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1303	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1308	This year's agricultural policy has been special. Since a choice to sit down at the negotiating table reached a rapid agreement on an agreement, and the proceedings in the committee have also been relatively conflict-free, one must be able to say. At the same time, it is common for us, when dealing with agricultural policy, to give guidance for next year, but we are in the situation that we have a relatively fresh agricultural message, with Innst. 251 S for 2016-2017, which has some good pluralities that provide some leadership for agricultural policy, with which the Centre Party is pleased. We expect the Council of State to follow it up to the next year, and that it will then be an ordinary indication of where the income target is based and where the other policy objectives are laid down. Tomorrow it's 100 years since the Center Party was founded. For 100 years, the Centre Party has been working to bring the whole country into operation, develop the countryside, have a national food production, protect national food production through customs protection and strengthen the peasant's forces. It's got the Center Party fighting for 100 years now, and I want to take advantage of the possibility of saying that it's actually going to do the next 100 years that are coming. That's why we thought it was natural to present this spring a corona and emergency package. It has a two-part purpose — first, to compensate for the exceptional expenditure incurred by agriculture in relation to the coronary eruption. Agriculture is not the worst affected, but some parts, for example. The green sector has had some specific challenges that we wanted to address. We also wanted to invest funds for investment, necessary investment, and that agriculture could also be part of what we use to get society going. But I'm recording that of 27. In measures, there is 0 for agriculture, despite the raising from the Right. Now it's obvious that it's the location and the time that's wrong. We will discuss it tomorrow, but in the setting tomorrow there will also be NOK 0 from the Right. Then I want to make sure that the Centre Party does not take this into account as part of the agricultural policy. We have presented a package that we present in this setting, but the permissions themselves will be in the revised budget, which will be discussed tomorrow. It's neat and neat in relation to the negotiating institute. When it is not agreed today, it is because it lacks political will, and it is regrettable. So I'm going to take up the proposal that the Center Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1323	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1330	I am surprised that the Centre Party chooses to put both the Norwegian Bond team and the Norwegian Bond and Small Farmers teams in a kind of embarrassment by promoting proposals for a corona action package in connection with the agricultural settlement. We know that the parties agreed to exclude the corona measures, as it was believed that this was not part of the agricultural settlement. We know that the government has set up to facilitate labour, with crop damage compensation and in every way has been in close dialogue with agriculture during the crisis. By promoting this proposal in the context of the agricultural settlement, the work done by the parties is undermined in a way. Does the Central Party believe that the parties will no longer settle this settlement itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1335	When the Central Party, or the Bond Party, was established 100 years ago, it was because the peasants no longer saw any good in the Right and Left. The situation that we have today actually shows that the farmers made the right choice when they chose to establish the party, because this is quite so creative criticism. We are voting for the negotiated agreement. Then, in the recommendation on agricultural policy, we have chosen to mention some other issues, and then we have quite tidy and agreed to introduce the promise proposal in connection with the revised national budget, which will be discussed tomorrow. We're talking to both Norwegian Farmers' and Norwegian Farmers' Teams about this, and I feel that none of them have the same concern as Right in this, precisely because there's nothing unusual that we've done, and there's no reason to criticise the Center Party for that. There is reason to criticise those parties that do not support our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1340	I see that the proposal with a breakdown of 1.1 billion. NOK is very detailed. I wonder if you have been in proper dialogue with the parties in the settlement, with the trade unions, about that level of detail. Are these relevant proposals that the trade unions themselves really want?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1345	First, when we developed this package, it happened that we had a recording meeting with the different parts of agriculture, got a recording and got a wish for such a package. It was a very good process, and if you look at the recommendation, you also write there that the closer explanation of the different entries and the closer arrangements of this, for example. in the case of the design of the ditching plan, the design shall be carried out through a specific process between the branch and the department. The reason why we write a special process is that we don't want to do this to a new round of agricultural negotiations. We're very concerned about the distinction between our corona and preparedness package and what's agricultural. That is the background for the divorce, and we say there should be a process between the parties to make the package as accurate as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1351	It's interesting when someone drops into the centre party's extra package, to look this up to the negotiating institute. I thought in my naivety that the Center Party and we agreed to keep the negotiating institute fairly sacred. Then I hear what the representative Pollestad said in the rounds here that this was just meant to be a signal. But it's here, it's being promoted today, and it's not just a signal. In my opinion, this is in favour of weakening the legitimacy of the negotiating institute. The representative Pollestad has explained the 100 years of the party, from the Landmansförbundet to the Bondepartiet to the present Centerpartiet. As my grandmother said, it's interesting that we have a party that might as well have been called the'say sail party'. But what does Pollestad see here? Does he see that this actually weakens the negotiating institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1356	No, this is not weakening the negotiating institute, but what is weakening our readiness, what is weakening Norwegian agriculture, is that we have a government with a supporting party that has been able to spend 27 billion dollars. kr to get the economy going, and don't look at agriculture. For example, there are very many small poultry in the districts, which are today drifting like quagmire, which must be converted into loosing poultry. We definitely see that a very good measure to get the economy going will be to provide support so that this transformation can take place, because we are very afraid of what will be the consequences for agriculture in Norway and agriculture in the whole country if we do not. One approaches the time limit for one to go to the rest of the day, and one to replace only those feathers with large feathers. Then one will lose farming in many villages. So I don't think the criticism should be directed against the Central Party, but the criticism must be directed against a party that doesn't support our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1361	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1366	Agriculture is important because it creates values for the country, it helps to take care of the cultural landscape and our food land, it provides employment in the districts, and it ensures that we have access to the most basic needs that humans have, namely nutrition. Producing food in Norway is both environmentally friendly and solidarityable, and it makes us sure that we can manage ourselves. Less and more use makes us more vulnerable in times of crisis. We find that worrying, and we consider it important to stop structural development and centralisation as a result of this in agriculture. At the same time, we need to strengthen Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. This year's agricultural settlement is a simplified settlement because of the corona, which has been mentioned by many, which makes next year's agricultural settlement even more important. We have great expectations that structural intervention will be more focused on next year's negotiations, and that something will be done about the salary levels of the farmers. The aim of this increase is to reduce the income gap between agriculture and other social groups. That no major grip has been made to smooth out this difference, is simply too bad. The pandemic has shown us how vulnerable agriculture is in terms of labour supply, perhaps especially in the fruit and vegetables sector. This shows that it is necessary to continue to work on recruitment in order to ensure real knowledge of agriculture and animal husbandry. If food preparedness and security are to be effective, food production must also be possible for people living in this country and for acceptable pay and working conditions. We from SV want to strengthen the grain economy. Norwegian production has been reduced in terms of both area and profitability in recent years. That's the opposite of what we need now. We need greater grain area and rapid action to strengthen production, for sudden crises that we have just experienced, have shown us that we need a greater need for a better security policy, where access to food is absolutely fundamental. I want to present the proposal that we have with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, where we are asking the government to ensure that next year's agricultural settlements draw up a stepping-up plan to strengthen preparedness, self-sufficiency and rural agriculture. Then I have to put on my coat of arms that SV is not on the note of the Center Party and the Workers' Party that we can cut emissions by improving the production, without cutting in the production itself. Of course we agree with that. It is a little special that actions related to the coronary apathy have not been the subject of this year’s negotiations at a time when several people have seen the importance of Norwegian agriculture. That is why we in SV have proposed several measures in our emergency package 3, which will be dealt with tomorrow. There we propose a number of measures that will lead to value creation in agriculture and strengthen the country’s self-sufficiency in a longer-term perspective. I would also like to say that SV supports the solutions proposed by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1391	First, I would like to praise Norway's Bond Team and Norwegian Farmers' Teams for being very constructive for a very demanding time. The Korona crisis is the biggest health and economic crisis since World War II, and this was carried out in a very good way. There's good reason to praise the trade unions in that way. The development of income and costs and the achievement of objectives in relation to agricultural policy objectives will be assessed in regular negotiations in 2021. Despite the situation, Norwegian agriculture has kept a good level of activity up and partly increased the level of activity in order to provide food for people on the table. This has been of great importance as there has also been uncertainty. Norwegian agriculture has run on and shown a sense of crisis, but not least has shown great willingness to deal with what we've been up to. And not least, with considerable uncertainty in large parts of the business world, it is good that the parties have come to the exact agreement we have this year. This ensures predictability and a safe framework for Norwegian food production in an otherwise demanding and uncertain time for the country. The crisis we are experiencing also shows the importance of a good structure profile in Norwegian agriculture, where we take care of small and medium-sized uses. We have always been at the barricades of the small and medium-sized uses, and in the government, the Left has also stood on to strengthen the economy of just them. The economy is strengthened, district subsidies and grazing subsidies have increased, and Norwegian food production is strengthened under the government of which we are part. Everyone should eat more fruit and green, because it's good for the globe, it's good for the farmer, and it's good for people's health. In 2019, we agreed to increase the Norwegian share of green production, and in the agricultural settlement in 2020, we will follow it up. Target price for fruit, green, berries and cereals increased. The agreement also provides for the maximum increase in the target prices for cereals and wheat. Cereals are one of the productions with market opportunities, and increased Norwegian cereal production contributes to increased self-sufficiency. The government has also further strengthened the channelling policy, inter alia. strengthening the grain economy in the agricultural holding for years and years in a row. This government has also removed the grants for grass production in the cereal regions, which means that we strengthen the channelling profile even more clearly. The district profile has been reinforced in several ways, including: by increasing regional subsidies for milk and breast-feeding. Increased grants to set-aside also contribute to strengthening the rural profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1409	How does the representative, Mr Skelstad, want to press the government in the coming year to raise the real level of self-sufficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1414	We are now part of the government, if not the Sand Tread. So it's clear that many of the laps we have internally, we've been happy with. If you count on the fish, the real level of self-sufficiency is quite high, as Sandtrøen has also been told earlier today. But I also believe that we must have an agriculture not only in parts of the country, but throughout the country. That's the best preparedness we can have, and I think we're gonna keep doing that, too. The left wants differentiated agriculture where it is actually possible to have agriculture in Pasvik and in many other parts of the country, although the climate is different. That's what I think I'm dealing with both the total preparedness for food, and the preparedness for it felt the security of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1421	The reason for my short and simple question is that when you listen to the debate here, there are many fine words. The installation that the representative had from the pulpit was very positive, and should this have been fulfilled in practice, we should have had a real degree of self-sufficiency that had increased in recent years, instead of the grain areas falling, and that areas in the West and North Norway are at risk of fall-backs. There is a paradox here, because the Stortinget has been quite clear and offensive in its order for the previous processing of the agricultural notification. Now the Left and Christian People's Party is actually released from the Advance Party. Then we have to ask the question in a slightly different way: when the Left and the Christian People's Party are downrooted in many things in the Storting, why can't the smaller parties free themselves and now form a real basis for us actually getting agricultural policy into a better path in the real world?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1428	I believe that agricultural policy is on a much better track now than it was when the representative standing here started as a farmer early in the 1990s. I remember quite well who was then Minister of Agriculture. Then there was no great optimism about the tables when the councillor Gunhild Eyegen falsified his ideas. I believe that the optimism of Norwegian agriculture now also turns out that there are many who want to take over new uses around, and precisely the measures that have been taken create optimism and are the safest way to get new recruitment and not least increased production. But as I said, everything is not just about production. It is also about the possibility of having a differentiated agriculture and an agricultural sector that will provide more goods than just food, such as housing — but also food security. It's important things, which the Left has always claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1436	If we're going to recruit, it's improperly a disadvantage for young people who want to live off milk production as work, that it's going to be three times as expensive to get an entrance ticket. Following the centralisation policy of Sylvi Listhaug and the unrealistic level of the quota ceiling, we have now seen more of the same developments in milk production as the young people have experienced in fisheries over several years. There are passive forces that make good money, like the financial industry, while those who actually have to live from active value creation and their own work have to pay more. Would it not have been a favourable opportunity for the representative to join the Workers' Party next year in order to ensure that we actually improve the possibilities for active production and for those who are going into the industry in the future, instead of making it more expensive, as we have seen in the fisheries sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1441	With my experience over many years in Norwegian agriculture, I have rarely seen the Workers' Party as the best friend of agriculture. But the representative Sandtrøen is right that the prices – the entrance ticket, as he calls it – were quite high for a period of time. I think that the grips that are now made between the parties, and what is on the table here today, will be positive for just getting the prices down, through the 40-60 distribution that is now there. I think this is about several things, not necessarily just about usage support. It is also about seeing space through just having a differentiated agriculture where you have both small and large, and that it is located in different parts of the country. It offers opportunities, but of course also challenges. I think the Left has been there and met well. Unfortunately, I do not feel that at the time that the Workers' Party controlled agriculture, there have been hit points.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1450	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1455	Like the rest of society, spring has also changed in terms of agricultural settlement. The variant of the year is less extensive than one is used to. Nevertheless, important steps have been taken in the year’s settlement. We in the Christian People's Party will give the parties credit for the responsibility and cleanliness that marked the year's negotiations, for a very demanding time for our country and for Norwegian food production. The Contracting Parties have allocated the increased appropriations in the agricultural agreement equivalent to 350 million. DKK in 2021, and the funds are largely made available for price and direct grants. The distribution has strengthened the economic basis for food production, in particular cereals, potatoes and greenery, and ensures climate and district considerations. The target commodity prices are increased by 1.75 pst. average. This is the strongest increase in five years. Nevertheless, depreciation of prices by budget means means that the Norwegian food price estimate is low. We in the Christian People's Party are also pleased that this year there will be an important and long-lasting increase in the target price for pigmeat, at 1.46 kroner per kilogram. Prioritisation of the economy in the production of cereals, fruit and vegetables and potatoes is continued by increasing target prices. The district grant for fruit, berries and vegetables is also increased by 10 million. kr, in addition to the EUR 120 million earmarked for the contract. kr for investment, competence and product development in the green sector. This is important and proper action to increase Norwegian production in sectors where self-sufficiency is lower than for livestock. The parties have also agreed on measures to strengthen the climate profile of the year’s settlement by increasing efforts on knowledge development. It is important to realise the climate agreement between agriculture and the country. The agreement increased the appropriations for emission reduction schemes and improved adaptation to a changing climate. In particular, we would point to the increase in subsidies for the supply of fertilisers for biogas production as important, especially in those parts of the country with a surplus of manure. There is also a clear regional profile in this year’s agreement. The channelling policy is strengthened by increasing the profitability of growing cereals, potatoes and vegetables on the areas suitable for it. At the same time, appropriations are increased to schemes targeted at livestock farming in rural areas. The district profile of the operating grant to milk and suckler cow is strengthened and grants to set-aside are increased. It stimulates the increased use of good grazing resources around the country. Overall, these interventions help to strengthen the geographical division of labour in Norwegian agriculture and to maintain food production in all parts of the country. The Contracting Parties are now embarking on efforts to improve the instruments with a view to increasing the Norwegian share of livestock feed as part of the basis for the regular agreement of 2021. Today we are going to vote in favour of an agricultural agreement in a simplified version, but with a good profile and good priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1474	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1479	One of the reasons why a year has a simplified one is that one didn't have the background figures that needed to make absolutely necessary calculations, so this prevents governments and trade unions from having an ordinary negotiation. But it did not prevent the plurality of the committee from speculating, for it is plainly stated in the comments: ‘However, the majority will point out that the corona situation, with some reduced costs and increased demand, may have contributed to a balance of income between agriculture and other groups together with settlement.’ Here one says first that there is no basis for negotiation, and then one says that it may well be that it is like this. Then I want to listen to the representative of Reiten's analysis: how much can the farmers expect to get in income compensation as a result of this statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1489	First of all, it is not correct that there was no basis for negotiation, because the parties concluded with the exact opposite: it was the basis for negotiation, they were implemented, and it became a settlement. But when it comes to this year's negotiations, it's quite right that there are many unknown variables. The interest rate has been reduced to zero. Border trade has stopped altogether, so that we have a significantly higher consumption of Norwegian agricultural products than before, and people have changed their eating habits, so that they eat more at home and less at restaurants and outdoors. So neither the representative Pollestad nor I are today able to determine how it will turn out, but there is in fact reason to be optimistic and assume that the overall impact will be positive for agriculture, not least for milk producers. We have to wait for that, and then we have to get back to this at next year's negotiations. Then, of course, the income target is fixed, which a unanimous growth has been behind, and then there must be a goal when one goes into next year's negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1496	I'm sorry if I was unexplained in the first question. That, of course, is the basis for normal negotiations I meant. It has our negotiations, I am aware of that. But I still wonder a little about why the plurality needs to write that a ‘may have contributed to an income balance between agriculture and other groups’, when this is not something that can be quantified. My question to the representative of Reiten is: What has the plural wanted to achieve with such a formulation? And does the representative, Reitten, agree that when it's not possible to make such calculations, you should have let it be mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1503	We didn't want to achieve anything with this. We only note, like the budget item, that it has not been possible to make estimates of the trend in income that could have been the basis for the year's settlement. Therefore, the parties have agreed on simplified negotiations pending this clarification, so as to provide a better basis for conducting regular negotiations in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1508	Then I think we can establish that what's in that note is what's called boast, and then we'll see next year whether it hits or not. But I want to go back to this case about the IBU scheme, which we can read about in Bondebladet on 18 June – that Right wants to strengthen the IBU scheme, i.e. the investment funds for agriculture. But it has not been possible for the Right to get a plurality for, we know that when we now see both the agricultural situation and the adjustment of the revised budget. Then my question to the Christian People's Party is whether it is the Christian People's Party that has opposed the fact that one gets a strengthening of the IBU system, which I think would be very important in the situation that industry or agriculture is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1517	In the agreement concluded, the IBU Facility has been strengthened, appropriately moderated. I think many of us might have wished it had been strengthened more, but we are in an incredibly difficult time for our country. It must be given priority. In some parts of our business there is mass unemployment. Hundreds of thousands of people today do not know if they have a job to do. I can't say anything about those things other than that there's been priorities in the government. There have certainly been difficult priorities, and the result has been the way it has been. Something else I can't really say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1528	We don't live on oil in this country. We feed on food. Some summers ago I worked at Güllstra in Jöldalen in Trollheimen with cows and goats and ironing because I wanted to learn more about the daily operation on the farm and on the strobe after we moved the animals up there. I wanted to learn about what it takes to be a farmer, about how agricultural policy affects production. There are not very many sets in operation again in Norway. In 2017, 742 individual seats received operating grants. A few generations ago, there were tens of thousands. It is a symptom of a policy that moves agriculture in the wrong direction. Centralisation and fewer and larger use are incompatible with the objective of using the whole country. Agriculture employs more people than oil. Nevertheless, the bulk of the population has a population of 39 billion. to provide the oil industry with even more subsidies and tax advantages this year, while agriculture is being fed with a simplified agricultural settlement. The food producers, I believe, had earned so much more. Every year, the Greens are proposing a strong increase in the agricultural framework. A slower, decentralised agriculture where food is produced on Norwegian resources costs money, but there is food security we pay for, and for Norway to contribute our resources to the global food growth. Today's subsidy policy often makes it worthwhile to invest in grazing animals in cereals. It weakens the rural agriculture where grass production is displaced by grass grown in the East. This weakens self-sufficiency as grain production declines. It increases greenhouse gas emissions by increasing meat production and pushing meat prices downwards. With our policies, self-sufficiency would have gone up. We would have taken more of the country into use and prevented re-growth. Norwegian farmers would get a better economy. It is fully possible to increase grazing and cut meat consumption at the same time. It's about how we produce, and how we consume. Green agricultural policy, I think, is good for animals. It's good for people, and it's good for the environment. We are promoting five proposals today that will increase self-sufficiency and move agriculture in the green direction. We ask the government to increase the subsidy and investment aid to smaller vegetable producers, increase the target price of cereals without increasing the price reduction for feed to stimulate more use of roughage and pasture. We will increase the grazing and grass supplement to turn the feed from feed to grass and increase support to the information offices for cereals, fruit and vegetables. We ask the government to go through customs protection for potatoes, fruit and vegetables, so that food that can be produced in Norway is not out of competition by imports. With this I address these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1543	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1550	The MDG has made a proposal on this matter in the following terms: ‘The size asks the agricultural government in 2021 to increase the target price of cereals without an increase in the price reduction for power feed, in order to stimulate more sustainable animal husbandry with less use of power feed, and more use of roughage and pasture.’ If this proposal is adopted, it will significantly weaken the economy of Norwegian meat producers and Norwegian milk producers. The representative and the party claim that it is to stimulate more sustainable animal husbandry, but is it not true that the Green Party will actually penalise Norwegian meat producers and that, as a side effect, it will also have very negative consequences for Norwegian milk producers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1560	By no means. The Green Party has no policy to prevent meat production in Norway, but we believe that we must have a policy for sustainable meat production and a reduction in meat consumption. There is something that all climate scientists in the world agree on, that there is a Western country that needs to take care of if we are to be able to achieve our climate goals. I think that is also important for Norway because we want to have a stronger food security. We need it now, already today. We already saw that in the spring when we got a changed market for food, but also with climate change, and there can be quite a lot of big politics into buying and selling grain in the world. I think it is incredibly important that we in Norway make sure that we use our Norwegian resources as best we can. It is not resource-efficient or energy-efficient to produce meat where one can produce cereals, greens or potatoes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1565	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1570	Korona has made this spring extraordinary in many ways. There has been a lot of uncertainty, and in our canceled SSB publication of its financial forecasts. The budget item did not have sufficient professional basis to provide normal base material with income development for 2020. After dialogue with the agricultural organisations, we agreed to carry out simplified negotiations, and I would like to thank the organisations for that. They were not able to rely on an ordinary basis in these negotiations, and therefore the number of topics was limited. The aim was to ensure the best predictability for the country’s food producers and to bring the most normality into an abnormal situation. It made it possible to strengthen the basis for the production of plant plants for food for the current season. In a demanding time of considerable uncertainty in large parts of Norwegian business, it is important and good that we can get an agricultural agreement in place this spring too – an agreement that gives predictability to Norwegian farmers and helps to secure our food production. It continues to invest in agriculture in the rural areas during the difficult time we are now in. This was simplified negotiations and a special agricultural agreement for a special year. At the same time, the agreement shows some clear political priorities that are important to me and the policy I stand for. The agreement facilitates increased self-sufficiency and Norwegian food production by strengthening the economy of cereals, potatoes, fruit and vegetables. We are starting to follow up on the work of the Innovation and Growth Committee in the green sector. Further efforts shall be made to increase the use of Norwegian feed resources. The Agreement has a clear regional profile through enhanced channelling policies and through higher grants to outback pastures, reinforced freight systems and increased regional grants for fruit, berries and vegetables. Climate action is reinforced by efforts to cut emissions and adapt to climate change, including: through environmentally friendly measures – fertiliser application, biogas investment and technological development. The parties therefore agreed to conduct regular negotiations in 2020 in an abnormal year. The Parties also agree to conduct regular negotiations in 2021, with a complete base material. Then perhaps the negotiations will also take on more topics than it has been in this settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1586	The setting for the processing of the agricultural message is as follows: ‘The members of the Committee from the Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left point out that in their input to the hearing on 19 January 2017, Norway’s Bondelag proposed self-sufficiency corrected for imports of feed as a result target for Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. These members support this definition, as it best captures the purpose of food production on the basis of Norwegian resources and ensures increased self-sufficiency.’ Why has the Minister of Agriculture, who is also the first Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party, used much force this spring to argue against the very intention of what the great majority here have joined, and of which the Christian People's Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1596	I almost have to gather a little bit to answer, because that's what I've spent time on, is increasing self-sufficiency, channelling to use our resources properly, and facilitating that we have both a roughage production based on Norwegian resources, and an increased grain production of both food grain for people and food for our animals. That has been the basis for the production we have used, and I believe that this is also part of the plan that we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1601	In Norwegian policy, 4 pst. known as a critical limit: the barrier limit. In terms of self-sufficiency, we are now down to just 40 pst. calories available in Norway from production on Norwegian soils and pastures. It is a critical level of self-sufficiency. Obviously, if you just make a simple search, you'll see that the Minister of Agriculture said on the contrary this spring that this is not a problem, that self-sufficiency is high, and that we should not have a clear escalation of this. That is what I read as a result of the debate that the Minister of Agriculture has been in. So my question is as follows: Will we have an agricultural settlement next year that actually takes up this majority position and thus ensures increased self-sufficiency corrected for imports of feed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1611	I have so much respect for the negotiating institute that I take that with the parties, not with one party in Stortinget. That's the first thing I can say. And I wish I had that understanding of the Workers' Party as well. The second thing I want to say is that if you go in and look at the results for cereal production, for vegetable production, for areas where we haven't been self-sufficient, that's exactly what we've done in recent settlements: focused on those areas and put the scheme into those areas where we haven't been self-sufficient, to increase the level of self-sufficiency. One can go back and look at grain production, on the self-sufficiency of grain in 2019, where, despite a drought year in 2018, one had a higher self-sufficiency rate of both feed grain and food grain in 2019 than had previously been.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1620	The weather varies from summer to summer. We don't get to do anything about that. But we get to do something about politics. And I think one reason why most people get a little frustrated sometimes with what is often called politics is that things are said from the pulpit, and then you don't feel that it's being followed up in practice. I must say that I have had great faith in the Christian People's Party this great period and tried to make offensive action with them, so that the good agricultural message we treated together could become a reality. And it wasn't just one party, because I just referred to four parties and the majority, and regardless of who forms the majority in this Chamber, it's up to the Council of State to follow it up. It's obvious. There are a lot of things we can do together when it comes to enhancing cereal production. Of course, the target price is one part, but often the debate stops there. Freight subsidies can be introduced from the second best grain regions, we can increase the grant for drainage and quarrying so much that it is done in large quantities, and we can ensure that more people receive subsidies to invest in cereals droughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1629	Now I got a little talk in the representative's view of politics, but it didn't end with a question, so I guess one is still in the self-sufficiency debate and how we can use our resources properly. If the representative has read the entire simplified settlement this year – and I assume so – he should also have got what has been done on channelling, where one has used these tools to achieve better production, both at target prices, on the use of land and on subsidies in districts, just to use resources – and then with the idea that one actually had a plan to increase self-sufficiency in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1636	If we are to increase self-sufficiency in Norway, we need agriculture in the whole country, we need to use the resources we have. They're scattered, and then we need small and large use. We are in a situation where there is a great need to invest, especially in less use and use where production cannot be increased, but we need to redefine and modernise so that grass and grazing resources can continue to be used to produce food and thus contribute to the path of self-sufficiency. The situation is that it is notified to the country around the beginning of the emptying of an investment vehicle. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that by 2020 there are enough funds to invest in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1645	I am aware that the IBU funds to which the representative refers are becoming empty in many regions. I wish I had a big pot to put in IBU funds, because I see the possibility of investment. In a situation where we have to do a lot of priorities, there has been one thing that has been important that we have promised, but we also need to give priority to other things. That is the basis for the priorities we have set. But I see clearly that there could also be ring effects, especially in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1650	We can read in Bondebladet that it's not right it's on this case, and that the representative Margunn Ebbesen is ready to strengthen the IBU scheme. So some have to be like brakes. It is also said by the representative Reiten from the Christian People's Party that we are in a difficult time for our country. I agree, but we're at a time when we spend a lot of money on the budget. It is striking that in the package to create activity and in connection with the issue we are dealing with now, one is not to give priority to agriculture. It is clear that building poultry would give activity in the construction sector, which is needed, plus that we would have strengthened self-sufficiency and solved a problem for agriculture. So what's the background for not finding traces of agriculture in the crisis packages and the activity packages, action package 3, that's now presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1657	I fully agree that there has been a tremendous amount of money spent in the situation that our country has been in, and I am very grateful that we who live in Norway have had the opportunity to spend a lot of money. But there are also differences. Some have lost job and income from one hour to the other. Others may not be able to get back to work at all. Others include: in agriculture, has been in a very special situation, but they have not been in a situation where they have lost their job at the hour, but they have actually had an opportunity to produce both more and more important food for us. That's what I want to say. And that has been the reason for the priority – that priority is given to those who have initially lost everything, first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1664	Today, many have to be part-time farmers to get the wheels to walk around, and we see that many have other jobs alongside agriculture. In the Granavolden platform, the government says: ‘In order to ensure recruitment and income opportunities for those who use all or most of their labour in the industry, it is important to reduce the loss of income between agriculture and others in society.’ In the past, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that it applies to everyone who works in agriculture, and not only to those who have it as a full-time job. So I wonder: does the Council of State aim to reduce the loss of income between all in agriculture and others in society – including those who are part-time farmers – or only for those who have the whole or the majority of income from agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1674	No, it's not like the Christian People's Party has set aside part-time prayers. They're an important supplement, but we also see that the productions that produce the most are often those that are used in production all the time. There are large productions that are important for our supply. It's extremely important. There has been a gap in income, and then the country can contribute something to that gap in income in negotiations. We did that last year. But at the same time you see that there are other things that affect the income gap. Other prices, other interest rates, other markets and other purchasing power have a bearing on what farmers are finally left with on the bottom line when the year is over. But I'm going to assure the representative: the Christian People's Party and the government are extremely concerned about ensuring agriculture throughout the country, ensuring small and large, full-time and part-time farmers. It is extremely important to ensure agriculture and use our resources in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1681	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1686	I want to start by thanking and congratulating the parties for having agreed on this year's negotiations. Yes, this has been a special settlement, but just as fully a settlement that all the parties agreed on, and that was the most correct one based on the situation in Norway and the world. In particular, it was important for agriculture to set up new target prices from 1 July 2020. This agreement strengthens the channelling policy. It is one of the pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy. The agreement now concluded agreed to give priority to plant products for food and climate action, while respecting regional considerations. This means that the government continues to strengthen the grain economy to make the cultivation of cereals, potatoes and vegetables more profitable on the areas suitable for it. This is an important regional policy instrument, including in agricultural policy. Strengthening the grants for outcrops stimulates the increased use of good grazing resources around the country. There is no doubt that there is a great difference between operating a farm in Finland and doing so in Brønnøy. But they're all equally important. My visits and conversations with farmers and organisations together with the Right Agricultural Network have given me many good impressions. There are proud farmers who go to an important job every day to secure a lot of the food we need. The farmers produce world-class raw materials, to which the world should actually be allowed to access. Not only are the farmers good at producing raw materials and food and taking care of our soil, they are also competent and forward-looking in taking responsibility for the climate. In the meetings with the agricultural network, several of the farmers and organisations have given us their concerns about the consequences of the 2030 Climate Change Conference. But farmers also depend on climate change being taken seriously, because climate change is threatening their food production. Therefore, the agricultural organisations signed a climate agreement with the government last year, where they promised to reduce the total greenhouse gas emissions of agriculture by 5 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent from 2021 to 2030. They have followed up on this once they have developed their own climate strategy, which shows how overall agriculture across eight areas of activity will achieve the goal of cutting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing carbon uptake in soil. Now the government and the parties follow up with several measures in this agreement, including: increased support for the supply of manure to biogas plants and increased investment in projects that can contribute to fossil-free heating and engine fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1703	Agricultural policy is supposed to solve a societal challenge, but what is the societal mission? Well, it's food preparedness, the safe supply of agricultural food produced in an ecologically long-term and sound way, and with a quality that makes people healthy and healthy. I'm very happy that consumers in cities are getting more concerned about this, and I'll do everything I can to support the progressive modern consumers. Data on food preparation are presented annually in the document Control of results for the implementation of agricultural policy, from the budgetary point of view. The latest updated version is dated 11 May 2020. This shows that the degree of supply of agricultural food was 36 pst. in 2019 – 36 pst. of the agricultural food we eat is produced in Norwegian agriculture on Norwegian feed, i.e. Norwegian plants. It's historically low, and we should take that on board. There is a critical poor fulfillment of the societal mission. The government does not discuss the reason – yes, one does not even agree on the facts in the case. I would say that the worst for farmers is that farmers' own organisations do not focus on this, on facts and reasons. A very serious reason is the increasing consumption and import of power feed, i.e. flour into domestic animals. Norwegian plants are replaced by foreign produced plants. The consequence is, of course, quite logical: Norway is growing again. The fuel consumption in 2019 was over 2 billion. kg – an increase of 400 million. kg from 2001. With a yield of 400 kg of barley on the target, it's 1 million. power-feed-enhancement deches. And of that, it's happened from 2001 to 2019 that more than 1 billion. kg has arrived as a result of imports — dramatically. When the Council of State spends time working for increased maritime supply, that's not true. The water supply of power supplies has decreased from 60 pst. in 2017 to 48 pst. in 2019, and thus the level of maritime supply has decreased. It can be read by the Council of State by looking at its document. There are no parties that openly say that this is the right development, and that is the serious thing. Nobody says it's right that we replace Norwegian plants with imported plants, but that happens. Why does that happen? Well, of course, because the powers of the corporate system agree on that. That's where a settlement has to be made. If one doesn't take a settlement with this, we will have a lower and lower preparedness and a weaker and weaker opportunity to fulfill the societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1714	There was a clear speech from the previous representative, so I shouldn't go into it the same way. I mean, in the agricultural situation this year, there was a very special situation, and I don't want to criticize either one or the other. Some changes make some use of the districts, but it's incomprehensible to me when a saying wants to bet on fruit and green because one needs more, but actually cannot go in for more than 2 pst. Ascending. That's a real price drop. It's hard to understand that you think you can raise this. A focus on structural, pyramidal and other issues to secure rural agriculture, while the major problem is the change that was made in 2014, when the structural changes in agriculture and 90pst were reversed. by the farmers lost on the conversion. The main challenge of channelling policy is that too many rural uses do not benefit from the size of the operation it is set up to provide an economy. As a result, there will be a decrease in the number of seats, which means that the area will be put out of operation, and therefore it will be more profitable to use domestic animals in central areas than in districts. You can do a little bit of a trick here and a little bit there, but you can't do a headache. In 2014, one managed to unbalance after having a double concession on chicken. One increased production and took away all production from different productions. This has led to a severe increase in the quota price of milk and on land leases. The peasants feel pressured to grow bigger and bigger. That's the real big challenge. Then, as the Centre Party has proposed in the corona package, one could have an additional set-aside scheme, where the farmers could be renewed without growing, so they escaped the difficult market for both quota and land rent. One could have run his garden in line with the structure that fits in his area, where one could be able to produce more of the feed itself and scrape the eternal struggle with more use of power feed to make this go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1725	What got me to take the floor today was the post of the Sandtrøen representative, who is increasingly seen as a real-born child of Per Olaf Lundtigen. And even though the Christian People's Party thinks you can do one, you can do two, I'm not sure in this case. For both analyses in common, they are completely lacking a basic understanding of how dependent agriculture is on the demand for what they produce in the Norwegian market. We are very little competitive in an international market with Norwegian agricultural production, and that means that the goods we produce actually have to be translated into a market. In recent years, the Stortinget has actively villad both to increase the income of Norwegian farmers to make them feel better and to increase the production of a range of goods, with the only result being that we have replaced the incomes of farmers with the income they receive from the state treasury. Norwegian farmers do not become richer in this way, Norwegian farmers do not feel better in this way, and Norwegian self-sufficiency is not improved that way, because the context of the analysis is completely absent. We cannot produce unsolicited goods. We can't give farmers higher income than they're willing to work for. For many years, the basic challenge for agriculture has been that the Storting will do something completely different for agriculture than the market is asking for. The imbalance will only be reinforced by post-intervention interventions in this debate, and that is the fundamental challenge for agriculture. And I want to say that it is commendable that this understanding is much stronger in the Bond Team, and so far almost almost in the Bond and Small User Team, than she is on the Worker's bench in the Stortinget. It's not because the Bond team has stumbled, it's because the Workers' Party has gone completely wild in its own rhetoric in some kind of hope to hang on when the representative Lundtigen takes the lead in the demonstration train. We need a completely different policy than that. We need a policy that actually stimulates production where there is a basis for increased domestic production, but we don't stimulate so much that the market revenue falls away in the next round, because it makes it impossible for farmers to make the necessary investments in their own operations. It is this balance that has once again been illustrated by both the Center Party and the Labour Party today that one has no understanding. That's what's going to be the basic challenge for Norwegian agriculture for many years to come, and that's what I thought the agricultural agreement that farmers and the state have come up with now is well balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1736	I have great respect for the same people as the representative Dale mentioned, and not least I share enough of my view that there are societal missions, with the representative Lundteigen. But then it's like we're 5.5 million inhabitants, and we've added that our production is going to serve them. There aren't so many. Some of us have a certain degree of historical interest, and we remember quite well that it was demanded in view of the Hitra action in 1975 and the escalating decision that came after it, and suddenly we had an overproduction that was quite large in milk production. It is commendable that the Senterpartiet is so clear on IBU funds. The problem is what agriculture we're going to have in the future. The challenge is whether we should create an agricultural sector that stores its goods in Norway, when this will not look at the possibilities that exist in exports as well. Of course, we're going to have a great deal of self-sufficiency, but we can't beat people into eating what we think is the right diet at any time. What is most important, as I think is a little absent from the two gentlemen mentioned, is that a market must also be balanced. Some have mentioned sheep, but we have had quite a lot of overproduction before going into this coronary situation. In most people, we've managed to balance. There's also a bit of this, that you have to balance the market, otherwise you unwind the possibilities that agriculture has to actually make more money. I believe we have an opportunity, but there has not been such a willingness to look at just the possibilities we have through the export of Norwegian food. I mean, it's completely genuine. We are in the lucky situation in the North and not least Norway that we have clean groundwater. Pure groundwater means that we also take the possibilities through plants and animals, because we have to take it into account. The possibility in this situation of corona, I think we should be able to make better use of it. We can always debate up and down in terms of self-sufficiency, whether it's one or the other number. Then one must also take that agriculture has naturally adapted to what has been given by clear signals. Now we have a completely different debt situation in Norwegian agriculture than what we had 20 years ago, and then you can't reverse this, as I see someone wants, because then we've really done worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1749	Here I think we need to get back to Earth. There are many theoretical crunches from the pulpit. To the representative, Dale, we can say two things. Firstly, if a party is in favour of market balancing in Norway, it is the Workers' Party, i.e. that we make sure that there is consistency between what is produced and what we actually need for food. I can mention three concrete examples, because both from the Right and from the Advance Party there will be many market theories. It is obvious that there is room for producing more wheat in Norway, which we can have in bread — indisputably. If we had, for example, have been done similar things within the law and trade agreements as the red-green government did on ostetoll, for peas, Findus in Westfold could use more of Norwegian peas. If we had strengthened potato production this year, Norwegian meat producers could use more of the starch in the potato in feed production. So we have concrete examples and ground-based policies. It at least tends to be the best in Hedmark. Secondly, what we have spoken about today is an optimistic story that we are actually going to get agricultural policy on the track that the majority has decided here through the treatment of the agricultural message. The Progress Party is right against most, and their batch programme is against many of the important instruments for just market balancing. But it doesn't matter, because we have a majority, and the Christian People's Party is also obliged to follow it up. That's what's our main criticism, that just what we've agreed on is not happening in practice, but that real self-sufficiency is too weak. We've been shown that in an excellent way now. We don't have to go back any further than a few weeks. Then we saw how the lack of grain production in Norway directly became a problem for meat production, chicken and pigs, because suddenly the crown price goes down, the grain prices go up, and then we get a big problem. So simple and practical, but also vulnerable in these contexts, and I would have thought that the former Minister of Agriculture saw that. Finally, another positive and optimistic proposal we have for market balancing: it is looking at the model you have in Canada, just to get a better match between what is demanded of eggs among people, and what is produced. It can also be supported by the Progress Party. But that's probably against their market-liberalist ideology, which we see is very short in the Korona crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1762	We live in a long country, and we produce food of the highest quality. But it is wetter, colder, steeper and more remote from us than in many other countries, and the seasons of 2017 and 2018 showed us how wrong it can be when the gods do not play along. In 2019, I stood on this pulpit and said that a cold May could promise that the farmer’s barn could be filled again. In March 2020, the Koron came. The corona epidemic has caused a significant economic downturn and considerable uncertainty. Over the last few months, Higher Agricultural Networks have had weekly meetings with agricultural actors. Labour challenges have been key issues, and close dialogue with an industry ready to contribute further to the green shift has been important. In a demanding time, it is good that the state and agriculture agree on an agricultural agreement for 2020/2021. The agreement contributes to predictability of the farmers and food production and improves the economic basis of the industry. Already in the agricultural sector in 2019, the parties agreed on a green sector initiative and an Advisory Forum on Innovation and Growth was established in the sector. You're now following up this work. The ambition of the selection for the total market up to 2035 is five a day, which corresponds to what the authorities say about five portions of vegetables, fruit and berries per day. Today, Norwegians eat 3.4 portions a day. If we go up to the goal of five a day, that gives us a growth rate of 75 pst. So simple, so difficult. But with crises there are also new opportunities. One prerequisite for the Green Committee is that growth must be driven by demand. It is then necessary to clarify both the taste, quality and benefits of Norwegian products. I as a consumer must be informed. The crisis has given Norwegian food a boost, and awareness of this has increased. We as consumers play an important role. But we need more knowledge about food, food production and how it relates to health, jobs, self-sufficiency and culture. I need to know why I'm going to eat five a day and why I should choose Norwegian. At the same time, I want to eat pineapple on the pizza without fear that we don't produce enough food in Norway. It's great to see farmers and producers who raise their products and are now snuffed out to be the best in the class with what they produce. The food does not come in the freshware counter by itself. It is a result of hard work, love for food production and good interaction. Norwegian food is world-class, and the Right will continue to lift this further into a green future. Now the Jären has actually got its first strawberry farmer. Norwegian berries provide sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1781	Food is very much worth when it's too small. It's very small when there's too much of it. Market balance is by far the most important, and we have great opportunities to implement it because we have a national market. What creates market imbalances? Is that because we use for large Norwegian agricultural areas, or is it because we use for large foreign agricultural areas? The Norwegian agricultural area is falling, the foreign agricultural area is increasing. We have to make it less profitable to use foreign agricultural land. Governments may impose an import charge on soya under international agreements of SEK 4,50 per kilogram. It would be an appropriate instrument. The overproduction problem lies in imports of cereals and soya; it is now 1 billion. kilograms per year. It's growing, it's more than the entire Norwegian production. The facts have power in the long run. We have to have an import protection on both crowns and on quality. We have introduced a production method in Norway for chicken free of narasin, free of antibiotics. That's the direction we're going to take, because then consumers get a quality that gives a market for the Norwegian products. So the Council of State is talking about predictability in terms of prices. I want to refer to what the government, at the Bollestad Council, responded in the negotiations: Agriculture has proposed an excessive increase in the target price in the situation we are in. It may appear that agriculture is exploiting the situation at a time of clearly weakened purchasing power for many. Nor should one solve a short-term problem by creating a long-term problem in terms of production volume and competitiveness. It was found that agriculture required 6 cents in the increase in the cow’s milk price and 5 cents. on vegetables and fruit. It was bloodless. What the government here says is predictable. In the future, the price increases should be as small as they are now, which means that farmers will not even be able to cover their increase in costs in the market. This means that farmers are becoming more and more dependent on government budget appropriations, more and more dependent on the national moods.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1792	Initially, there is reason to pay homage to how agriculture has taken responsibility and managed the crisis we are now in. Such situations may provide an even greater understanding of the importance of safe and stable food production. During the debate, we have summarised the Workers' Party's alternative agricultural policy as more expensive peas and more potatoes for animal feed. None of the parts is a particularly good idea for Norwegian self-sufficiency, Norwegian public health or Norwegian farmers. It is no better, neither for public health nor for the economy of Norwegian farmers, that we should eat fewer peas because they are becoming more expensive. It won't be better for any of the parts if we were to use potatoes, Norwegian quality potatoes, and send them right in the stomach to the animals. In addition, within that range, carbohydrates, you have the highest degree of self-sufficiency in your power supply. At least that's not our policy. Overall, demand for agricultural products has not been significantly affected by the corona in a negative direction. It is, as I said, the main impression, although demand in some markets has given rise to significant challenges for some actors. Nevertheless, the value chain for food seems to be relatively good, and it is striking, especially in view of the discussions we have had about preparedness both in the change of line and in the past, that once again, in a crisis situation, there has been no supply crisis at all. We have heard examples in several rounds here, for example. Russia has an export ban on cereals. That's not true. That's not right. There are quotas on exports of cereals from Russia, and it has been. We have today been presented with a ban on the export of cereals on Kazakhstan. That's not right either. There are quotas for exports of cereals from Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan imposed a ban on meleksport from Kazakhstan, which, of course, led to an increase in cereal exports and a fall in the meleksport. We have heard that Vietnam has imposed a ban on the export of rice. That's right, for one week in March. After one week, exports were resumed with allowances and from 1 May with free exports. I have the impression that they are trying to create a scare image of Norwegian security of supply that is not really messed up. The comments from the opposition that covid-19 has shown that the preparedness is too weak and that self-sufficiency needs to be strengthened are incorrect. There may be reasons for both strengthening self-sufficiency and better preparedness, but the covid-19 crisis has shown, on the contrary, that the supply systems are very robust in dealing with the type of crises, both domestic and international, that we met now and that we met in 2008. I would therefore like to say that in the case of the proposal as, among other things, The centre party has come around a crisis package, in this case tastes more of bottleneck than crisis understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1805	The agricultural agreement this year was somewhat special and simplified due to the corona epidemic, but we are nevertheless very pleased with the focus he has actually received: district development, agricultural climate profile and priority for the green sector. Climate action has really been lifted before agriculture in the last few years. We feel that farmers are busy helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And not only that – a commitment to bio-based energy and forest planting to bind CO 2 are actions that will be implemented. In 2019, Norwegian agriculture entered into a climate agreement with the state. Both agriculture and the state are committed together to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing carbon capture by a total of 5 million. tonnes of CO 2 equivalent by 2030. Climate change has been and will be an important part of the agricultural agreement for many years, and in this year's agreement there is agreement to reinforce climate action further. Biogas production is an important climate action in agriculture. In this year's agreement, we have increased support for the supply of manure to biogas plants. The renewable energy value added and agricultural technology development programme is reinforced by 10 million. kr. Priority shall be given to projects contributing to the reduction of fossil emissions at the garden level. The agricultural organisations themselves are responding well and have developed their own climate plan to achieve emissions targets, which may constitute a very good sounding input from the 2030 Climate Change Sector. We feel that we have a close and good dialogue with agriculture throughout the country. Agriculture is an important factor in making sure that we have busses throughout the country and live and good villages. We feel, therefore, that measures before the channelling policy will be very welcome – together with strengthening the rural profile in operational support for milk and dairy products, as well as increasing the regional support for fruit, berries and vegetables. Good agricultural policy is important rural policy. It is active agriculture in all municipalities in the country, as close as in five municipalities. It gives us a lack of resources, helps to maintain busses throughout the country and helps to reduce the pressure on the big cities. The agricultural network of the Right has been on a knowledge journey throughout the country. The eagerness of the Norwegian farmer to develop agriculture, which also ensures food supply and guarantees that we can offer safe and good food to our inhabitants, gives us all security. I know some horn music in the bring when we raise Norwegian agriculture, because it eats up the Norwegian farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1830	I would like to make a few comments on the debate that we have. First of all, the claim that the Senterpartiet puts Norwegian Bonde and Small User Teams and Norway’s Bondelag in disrepute by presenting a package of measures: it is very strange to get such a claim when we make proposals that we have received from the same organisations. Then I want to make a comment about the Labour Party, because the Labour Party is very loud and dark in the debate. I would say that there is a little bit of a seminar that comes out, because when we come to the specific policy, when we come to the action package, the Labour Party says that there may be a need for a new assessment of how to strengthen food production across the country based on Norwegian resources. We have a proposal that we will do it again and come up with a new case about the prohibition against using ants to produce food, and the Labour Party agrees, but they cannot be included in the proposal, so I believe the Labour Party should also focus on the concrete policy and the actual policy measures, not just on rhetoric. So a comment on Right's agricultural network, which makes itself strongly represented in the number of articles in the debate. They claim in a reading article that they are 17 people. I'm glad that we in the Center Party's big group are 19 people who work for agriculture every single day. But I think there's one weakness with the agricultural network on the right, and it's possible to see the correlation between Right's policy and the agricultural results. Very many of the things you see and see when you travel around are measures that Right has traditionally been opposed and work to remove, among other things. the weakening of market regulation. We think that they put in government and made suggestions to remove the trigger suggestion. There are a number of measures, including: removing the market balance on several products – and then a now traveling around and looking over that Right did not get through. I'm also looking at it, so we shouldn't make it a bigger problem than it is, but I think it's worth pointing out. When it comes to the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We support every proposal to strengthen customs protection in Norway. In the case of proposals No. 3–5, they are very detailed on what action to take in next year’s negotiations. I think that Stortinget's job is to point to the objectives of agricultural policy, and then the parties are going to negotiate the measures. Therefore, we do not support suggestion No. 3-5, and we also do not support proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1841	This time I'm here to talk about what I came for, but as I was out of it, the importance of being able to get an effective solution so that agriculture reduces its greenhouse gas emissions without going beyond Norwegian production. This is an important point, especially in the light of the line-up with the representative Bastholm, who says in plain text that we need to reduce our own meat production completely regardless of how the market demand is. It is an effective policy to reduce rural agriculture in Norway – livestock-based, grazing rural agriculture – and to replace the then lost food production with imported cattle from other countries. It's not just a whole hairy agricultural policy, which makes Norway a different country than we know it today, it's also a completely meaningless climate policy. For this reason, I believe it is decisive that, in the further agricultural negotiations, one should also have the perspective of implementing the agreement concluded between the government and agriculture, namely that we should seek solutions to reduce agricultural greenhouse gas emissions, but not in a way that only achieves carbon leakage and loss of competitiveness for Norwegian agricultural production against other countries. So it's the animals that have four stomachs that make it possible for us to send them to pasture, which makes Norway a green and beautiful country, which also facilitates a drink of other nutrients. The alternative is to walk and eat grass itself, and to most of us it seems relatively little lucrative. Replacing that production with other food production will make Norway a different country than we know it. It is important to bear in mind, because in this knowledge we also have to take into account that if we are to take climate action in agriculture – as the Progress Party thinks we are, there are a lot of smart technologies we can come up with that that can contribute to – we must at the same time keep up the production base on the natural resources we have, and that is very much outland-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1855	There are very many good conservative values in Norwegian agriculture, with its long-term management horizon and overall generation perspective. The representative Pollestad made a visit to the Right Agricultural Network and is delighted with the commitment. It's big. He is pleased that Norwegian agriculture is doing well, and there is a sign that the policy is working, but perhaps the Center Party feels that the Right is stealing their clothes while they are bathing. At least we are very keen to make it clear that the Right has a good policy and is concerned with Norwegian agriculture throughout the country. Good agricultural policy is an important rural policy, and it has a significant impact on value creation and employment across the country. An active agriculture maintains the cultural landscape and provides a basis for the development of new industries, not least in the tourism sector. Norwegian agricultural production also increases food safety and food safety. Therefore, we need to produce more food on Norwegian resources for a growing population, not less — more healthy, infectious, non-plant and antibiotic-free food, as the market outside the world demands. We do that with the fish, and only in Europe is it a market of over 500 million people. Good agricultural policy is also good climate policy. Norwegian agriculture is offensive to the climate challenges and, as a first industry in the country, has concluded an agreement on climate change with the government on emissions reduction and carbon capture. Agriculture has launched its own climate plan as an alternative to the Climate Action Report. There is a great deal of exciting development in Norwegian agriculture to meet the challenges. In Trøndelag, we have a heavy knowledge environment and an active producer environment that is in place. A two-day visit of the Right Agricultural Network shall be considered next week. As an exciting example, I can mention increasing biogas production on agricultural resources. Biokraft AS, which has the world’s largest liquefied biogas production plant on Forests in North-Trundelag, estimates the potential for Norwegian-produced biogas to be 11-13 TWh per year in 2030. The potential assessment suggests that it could involve 20,000 annual works and an annual valuation of about 24 billion. kr. With good framework conditions, Norwegian biofuel production can increase significantly and be a decrease of 30 pst. of manure versus 1 pst. today. It's a climate action that monsaries, that reverses the perception of the cow as a problem to become part of the answer to the challenges we're facing. It creates more green jobs and produces more green energy, produces more food with less climate pressure and makes agriculture part of the solution and not the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1866	We are now interrupting the debate on substance. 4 to go to voting on the case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1882	The size is now ready to vote on the matter no. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e1913	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ketil Kjenzeth on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 2–16, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–16, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to define the SVO Ice Ridge Zone in line with the scientific basis of the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute, as the area where there is a 0,5 pst. of the days in April [[0.5 pst. Ice frequency]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that no new petroleum activities are initiated in areas where more than 0,5 pst occur. of the days of April, calculated on the basis of ice data for the 30-year period 1988-2017.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify to licensees that it would not be appropriate to permit the development of oil and gas fields in the areas where more than 0,5 pst is present. of the days in April, calculated on the basis of ice data for the 30-year period 1988-2017. If necessary, the government must come back to Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes to ensure that this is done.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Petroleum Act allowing authorities to withdraw issued extractive licences and to make it easier for authorities not to approve plans for expansion and operation, in the light of new knowledge of the climate and the vulnerability of nature.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests that the resource estimate excludes resources located north of the activity limit set by the Storting for petroleum activity and that these estimates are subsequently taken into account for the management’s further work on resource allocation for Norwegian petroleum resources.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Stortinget to submit a comprehensive national plan for marine protected areas by the autumn of 2020, as previously announced by the Government.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to undertake petroleum activities, including exploration and seismic shooting, in areas defined as particularly valuable and vulnerable. [[SVO]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a moratorium against mining on the seabed until 2030.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests that no mineral activity be carried out in Norwegian sea areas until a comprehensive marine protection plan for all Norwegian sea areas has been submitted to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen oil protection in the north and to step up technology development in oil protection technology’.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to address the need for updating the Seismic Guide to provide new knowledge of noise pollution and underwater noise, while at the same time new areas have been used for petroleum activity in Norwegian waters’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Size Requests the Government of the Marine Protection Plan notified set a target for the protection of Norwegian sea areas in line with the scientific recommendations of the International Maritime Panel on Sustainable Marine Economy.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include the Marine Protection Plan in future management plans for Norwegian sea areas’.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work towards a simpler and more efficient way of establishing marine protection areas in international waters in the ongoing UN negotiations.’ Proposal No 16 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to stop growing in the farming industry until problems related to escape, lice, contamination of plastics and nutrients and land conflicts are controlled.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2014	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the event of cross-border findings, north of areas where petroleum activities are currently open, to quickly assess how best to take care of Norwegian interests, including the need to start an opening process for relevant areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2048	In the course of the debate, Sandra Borch put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the immediate withdrawal of wild game from, and in relation to, domestic calving areas.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2096	According to what the President understands, the majority of this proposal is to be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure. That's what the president says. Is there anyone who disagrees with that? – It is not, and it is considered unanimously adopted. Further references were made: 5th@item: inlistbox Representative of the deposit representatives Freddy André Øvstegård, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Mona Fagerås, Solfrid Lerbreck and Katrine Boel Gregussen on a Norwegian public investigation into sexual harassment (Document 8:135 S [[401]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Family and Culture Committee. 6th@item: inlistbox Representative’s proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Oil Fund and the reputation of the Bank of Norway (Document 8:131 S [[402]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : To be sent to the Financial Committee. 7th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Maria Aasen-Svensrud, Arild Grande and Lene Vågslid on washing and cleaning in criminal matters (Document 8:134 S [[403]] [[2019-2020]] Eight. Representative proposals by depositors Freddy André Øvstegård, Karin Andersen, Petter Eide, Nicholas Wilkinson, Katrine Boel Gregussen and Mona Fagerås to extend the child care certificate (Document 8:136 S [[404]] [[2019-2020]] 9th@item: inlistbox Representatives of the representatives of the Government of Per-Willy Amundsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and Jon Engen-Helgheim on the prohibition of sibling childhood (Document 8:138 S [[405]] [[2019-2020]] Onest. : No. 7 to 9 shall be sent to the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2127	The cancellation then goes back to the examination of case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2143	It's interesting to hear the representative Dale talk about that we don't think about the market, we have to adapt the production, when one knows who had the department when one in 2014 did just the opposite of market customization. Then flatten out all the tips, an increase in production, and a double concession on chicken. It was just when we got imbalance in the market, which one has labored with for six years, until today. That's what the challenge is. Yes, meat production is viable, and it can be a good climate action, but then it has to be produced in the right way. Then it's actually important that we have a structure where the farmers can use pastures and pastures, where they don't run for miles to get enough feed to have a production that's big enough for one to live with it. That's exactly what's the point. It's if you've varied the usage structure and a structure that's adapted to the area you have, a sheep for a productive production. It's fun that there's an agricultural network in the Right. I swear to God. I thought it was good that they traveled around. But I think it's a little strange that they don't take into account what's going on in order to have the productive and good food production they're talking about so much. Then one has to fix it, so that one gets to use this area and run this race. It is especially when there is such a difference between what they say they want and the policy that this government is putting forward. If we are to have a climate-neutral and good agriculture, we must be able to use the area where it is located and have appropriate structures. Our proposal to expand, especially in milk production, where farmers can renew themselves and get a simpler everyday life with the production they are adapted to had absolutely lifted it. That's a shame they don't take over. They're talking about being so happy that there's a bet on green and fruit. Well, then there's also pricers that make it possible to take this, that it's possible to lift it, and then there's not 2 pst. increase enough. I cannot understand that it is going to be possible to lift this. The funds that are in there in addition are very close enough to compensate for the growth in costs that these farmers have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2156	I want to start by saying that I think it's great that there are different networks in different parties that want to talk both out and up Norwegian agriculture. That's what I'm really into. There have been some numbers in this debate that I would like to say a little about. One is the degree of self-sufficiency, which fell in 2019. I think you have to be honest and say that in 2018 we had the worst drought summer since the war. At that time, over 100,000 decanned cereals were turned into feed before it matured. In 2019, roughage stocks in our country were empty, and many farmers had to rebuild roughage stores. They actually did, because the crops in 2019 were good, but it was propagated, what happened in 2018. Nevertheless, grain production in 2019 grew to such an extent that, as far as 2020, there has been a less need to import feed grain than before. We also had so much Norwegian corn in 2019 that part of the harvest grain that had food quality had to be re-regulated into feed. I agree that in normal years it's right that it's market, and we're going to have bigger grain area. We delivered this in the farm statement last year, and we do it this year, but at the same time we have to use the numbers based on the assumption of that year. And so it is that neither the Storting nor the Contracting Parties adopt a land use. It is a result of the market opportunities and the framework conditions that one imposes on 40,000 private traders, as the farmers are. I don't know about anyone who's better at knowing the soil and producing on his own farm than those who both own and run it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2169	I said under the lines here that we may never have been better equipped to face a crisis than today. The most important thing we do for food safety is to strengthen continuous production, and we want to facilitate that we can produce the most of what is demanded. At the same time, we are a small, open economy that is completely dependent on trading with the world around us. This has to be balanced against each other, which the government does in an excellent way. This year's settlement adds to strengthening the production of what we're not self-sufficient, such as potatoes, cereals, fruit, greens and berries, so we're continuing to maintain and strengthen our self-sufficiency. So I need to say a few words about the Sandros calories up for preparedness and self-sufficiency. The level of self-sufficiency is based on the diet that we have today, and not on how much energy we need to survive a crisis. In a proper crisis in which trade stops, the level of self-sufficiency will increase, and in terms of total, we will then be 100 pst. Self-sufficient when we put on the fish. So we'll deal with less in a crisis. In a crisis, we'll also be able to convert production into more plant products, so we don't go through the cow. We don't want to be so crooked in such a situation, so we'll be able to eat what we don't eat today. With the fish in addition, as I said, we're going to be 100 pst. self-sufficient and well-appointed in such a situation. This underpins the Workers' Party when they talk about the degree of self-sufficiency and how we are prepared for a crisis. I think that's very stupid. I wish you would stop spreading the untruths that we don't have enough food in such a situation. In Norway, we have very unique conditions for doing so, including: because of the fish, which is mentioned many times here today, and I think the Workers' Party should have talked about that. People have to let go of walking around and be afraid when there's really no reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2178	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2183	As I said, we strongly disagree with the Right, which believes that we should cope with less energy than we normally do, in the event of a real crisis. That's exactly what we're going to avoid. That's exactly why we're ready, so there won't be a situation where people get hungry when there's a crisis. We now saw under the corona that people started to hamster, and it's unfortunately a bad sign, because that means there are some people in Norway who don't feel that the authorities have control. And that's the control we're going to create. So to Dale, he had a couple of eye-catching statements -- and some real statements. The right one is that it is smart for the climate to produce meat in Norway on local resources. But the eye-catching assertions, or the unsubstantiated claims, are that in the party programme of the Progress Party it is quite clear, written in black and white, that one should remove the system of market regulation and reduce customs duties. There won't be any nice meat production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2190	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2195	Councillor Bollestad has a big problem. She is a government council member who seriously believes that we have the same degree of maritime supply whether we import feed into the animals or not. This means that whether we have dry summers in Norway or not dry summers in Norway, we have the same security of food. Everyone understands that it is wrong. Governments have a huge problem. So there's a lot of talk about the negotiating institute. It is spoken in this Chamber as if it were the case that if parties to the wholesale market have an opinion on a negotiated agreement that is different from what has been negotiated, it is contrary to the negotiating institute. Where does it say? It's not there. That's a little bit of a mistake. The agricultural negotiations, the negotiating institute, are a preparation for Stortinget's treatment. The size is free to propose what is necessary, in the opinion of Storting. The problem is that the Storting is too unclear in its opinion to the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2202	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2207	It is obvious that it is very important for the government to explain the self-sufficiency percentage and problematize that someone thinks he is low. I thought so — among other things. because it is an agricultural network with many – that we are some that he should be strengthened, that we should lift him and that we should lift him on Norwegian resources. So my hope -- and my commitment -- today is that until the next debate, we can have it as a starting point. If the percent is one or two up, it's actually not what should be important. The important thing is how we do this in a climate-friendly way. Then I also thought it was a pity that one didn't dare answer this with the structure and the piece there, what it has to say so that one could also have vegetables in the districts, so that one would keep fruit production in the districts and not only in central, flat areas, where one could produce cereals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2230	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2237	I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. This is and has been a special matter. The planning process has been extensive, but it has always had broad political support in Oslo and Akershus. Akershus County Council provided a guarantee for the project and the financing on 22 October 2018. The matter was sent to Stortinget just before Christmas last year. Earlier this year, the new government of the Viken County Municipality drew this guarantee. Faced with this, I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, agreed to suspend the further examination of the matter, so that the department was given a chance to take new rounds with Viken and Oslo on the project. In that process, constructive contributions have been received from the Vikings, as can be seen from the Council of State letter of 29 May this year. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Left, has therefore laid the foundations of the scaled-down project. We believe this meets the requirements of the Week stated in its letter of 17 January 2017. The reduction will also make the project economically robust. By extending the recovery period from 15 to 20 years, toll tariffs could also be reduced by 15 pst. Many have wanted to present this project as a new sample project. It's not. New E18 will replace the path already lying there. It has two car fields and a collective field towards Oslo and three car fields out of town. Now there's going to be collaborative fields in both directions. One can ask the question: why do we then build a new road – with the same number of fields as today? There are three main reasons. First of all, we do it for those who live and work in Bærum. By laying parts of the road in the tunnel, we reduce the noise and dust pollution. These plagues are not solved by electrifying the car park. The totality of the project will also reduce the accumulation of cars in the housing streets during rush time. With the proposed toll system for E18 with side roads, traffic on Grinivejen and the Bærumwegen will be reduced by 60 pst. In addition, traffic in the Beckestua tunnel is reduced by 30 pst. as a result of the construction of the carrier diagonal. This will also lead to a clear distinction between local and transit traffic. Secondly, we are doing this to improve the accessibility of public transport and to better facilitate walking and cycling. Thirdly, we are doing this to facilitate urban and urban development in Bærum – in this round of the area around Hövik, in the next round of Sandvika, before we continue the project in Asker. We have learned from the experiences of Oslo: pave the way in the tunnel and free the surface of urban development. It's a pleasure if Oslo now wants to do the same with E18 in Filipstad. I will finally commend the Council of State for the way in which the matter has been dealt with, and the representative Myrli for the process he has carried out in his own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2256	Let me start with a quote: ‘The Government shall give priority to starting up the deployment of the E18 West Corridor through the Lysaker-Ramstadletta project.’ This quote is from the 2013 National Transport Plan. The Prime Minister was Jens Stoltenberg, and the Minister for Transport was Marit Arnstad. It is a red thread in what has been done with the transportation challenges in Oslo and Akershus in the last 30 years, now Oslo and Viken. Tunnels are built to get car traffic away from residential areas. The railway is built with new double tracks northwards and westwards from Oslo, and now Follobanen is built southwards. Collective provision has been greatly improved, and more than ever now travel collectively. This has been a successful policy, where responsible politicians from Oslo, Akershus and the state have made difficult choices, sometimes also unpopular choices, but history has shown that the decisions have been correct. Fewer urban areas and fewer residential areas are affected by traffic and noise, new areas are open to urban development, more trips collectively, more bicycles, and emissions are falling. This is good, and therefore we must continue this work. In these years we have got the Vålereng tunnel, the Fortress tunnel, the Bjørvika tunnel, the Løren tunnel and more. Now the West Corridor is on its way – by road in the tunnel and road under the lid. New areas are open to urban development, public transport is getting better conditions, fewer people are getting more traffic in residential areas, fewer people are being exposed to noise, and those who ride bicycles are getting better conditions. It was right to put car traffic in Bjørvika and the Økern and Lør in the tunnel, just as it is right to put car traffic on Hövik in the tunnel. So I'm going to be the first to say that it would have been an advantage if both Oslo, the Viking and the state had agreed on the E18 expansion for which it now seems to be a clear majority in the Stortinget. And so the three parties joined the negotiating table to try to agree on the E18 development and Oslopackak 3. I would like to commend Minister of Transport Hareide, who showed the will for real negotiations on the part of the state, and the real willingness to also change the E18 project – all the time to try to reach agreement. 13 negotiating meetings were held without the agreement of the three parties. I repeat that the best thing would have been for the parties to agree, but they did not, after 13 meetings. There is little reason to believe that the parties had agreed at meeting No. 14 or 15. It's been six months since the proposition was presented, and it's the Workers' Party's opinion that we now need to make a decision, now we need to get a clarification. Our starting point has always been to get a solution for the E18 on the Lysaker–Ramstadletta in Bærum, and we get that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2278	Today we are going to deal with a gigantic project with great uncertainty about costs. The cost framework is a total of 17.4 billion. kr. Had it been correct that a lot of highways should be built, as the opponents of the project and especially the Environmental Party The Greens are trying to create a false impression of, it would have been ok for us in the Progress Party to use 17.4 billion. kr only on the way. It would actually give many miles of safe and safe highway and not just a few kilometers of E18 – as we are adopting today. To put things in perspective: we now build 43 km with a new four-field E6 throughout Hedmark. Parts of the project shall be opened by the Minister by 1 July at the latest. And thanks to the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, this is now the longest four-field project in Norway's history. 43 km is ten times as far as the E18 project we are adopting today – ten times as far, and the cost is just eight billion. kr. Of course, the E6 and E18 projects are not completely comparable, but it is an important reminder of how much motorway we could get for a total of 17.4 billion. kr, and the E18 project we are adopting today is certainly not a motorway project, but so much, much more. The fact is that there are no so-called monster motorways, such as left-wing radical socialists and the Greens are trying to trick people into believing. The fact is that the E18 Lysaker–Ramstadsletta is a green urban development project where most of the funds go to everything but way. Large parts of the project relate to bicycles, corridors and collective solutions with bicycle paths and collective fields. Trees shall be planted, tunnels built and lided above E18 in order to release areas for nutrients and other activities. For residents along the road, there will be more green and less noise and pollution. All of this, of course, is positive for those who live along the E18, but it is quite wrong to turn it into a monster highway construction. I recommend the Green Party to take a study trip to the United States where motorways are actually built with both 8, 10, 12, 14, etc. field. There are motorways that are wider than the airstrip on the Gardermoen. Then it may be appropriate to use a rhetoric with the word ‘monster motorway’ on such roads, but not with regard to this project. In fact, only 4,4 km new E18 – only 4,4 km must be built. It's the facts, so it's amazing how wrong this case has been made in the media. It is also somewhat misleading that the case itself is referred to as ‘Development and financing of the E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta’. Consequently, it is natural to think that this is a motorway project, but as I said so much, much more than a motorway. Finally, I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2293	The representative of Tor-André Johnsen has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. The President will probably recommend the representative to be careful to characterise other politicians in such a way as he did in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2300	The E18 West Corridor consists of a 17.3 km motorway between Lysaker and Drengsrud in Asker. About half of the distance runs in a tunnel under a lid. The entire project shall be built in three stages. It is Lysaker – Ramstadsletta, which we are about to deal with now, Ramstadsletta – Dragenden – Drengsrud. In addition to the motorway, the project consists of the Bærumsdialogue and the West link. These are local roads for, among others. to improve the connection with Fornebu. Of course, this is important for Asker and Bærum. The project finances much better urban environment and urban development, as has been pointed out many times, which in itself is very special when compared to projects in other parts of the country. The price of the entire project E18 The West Corridor was estimated in the National Transport Plan to be 37.1 billion. kr. We have asked for the latest up-to-date figures, but have not received them, and there is reason to believe that the cost will be well over 40 billion. kr. The cost of the first 4.4 km is 17 billion. kr, by 34 pst. State contribution. The centre lot is occupied by the scope and costs of the project. We further point out that the Swedish County Council does not want to provide a guarantee for the toll loan as the project is outlined in the proposal, even after the new negotiations based on the adjusted alternative. There is no basis for adopting the project as it is at present. The negotiations between the State, Viken and the Municipality of Oslo have not taken place, and I can refer to the letter we received in the Transport and Communications Committee: ‘It has not been possible to reach local political agreement which provides the basis for a new guarantee decision by the Viken County Municipality. The premises in Prop. 38 The local and county council guarantee decisions are therefore no longer present.’ Nevertheless, strangely, the majority proposal today suggests that a sufficient local guarantee is provided for the toll loan. And not enough with that -- the department gets permission to adapt the project according to the changed assumptions. In addition, it is pointed out that it is very important to start negotiations on Oslopackak 3. There is certainly no evidence that someone is coming to the negotiating table after the decision that is most likely to be made here. This proposition should never have been promoted with such uncertainty as regards both the content of the case and the provision of the guarantee. The Committee's position is based on a letter from the Council of State setting up a series of changes to the original project. It's not a negotiated solution between Oslo, Viken and the state, and what's happening now is to outrun two county municipalities representing two million people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2322	Does the representative intend to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2327	That's what he's going to do!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2332	Then the representative Bengt Fasteraune has both thought and done it – he has drawn up the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2338	As the President is well aware, I share the views of previous speakers on this matter. This has been, mildly said, poorly handled. I'm going to come back to what the project involves, and why SV is against, but now I'm going to say a little bit about the most serious thing in this case, namely, the curvatures that have been done by the government and eventually also by the majority of the population, and this which now tends to smell a little abuse of power and failure of local democracy. It's serious. First of all, why promote a project that, in both project content and funding, lacks support from two regions, with a political majority representing over two million people, almost half the population? Think about this. In the SV's opinion, such a proposition should not have been made after the Viking, based on his new cooperation platform, clearly stated that the guarantee of the original project did not come up with a speech. We had a sort of compromise from 2016 in the Oslopackak 3 negotiations. That was the starting point. But then the bulk of the population and the government have increased the ambitions of this huge project, which might get a final sum of 40, 50, 60 billion. kr, if we include the collection costs – I don't know – if these extensive ones in the hall here get what they want. One must not have much political vigour to realize that such a strategy would lead to cutting, frustration and demands for new negotiations. Then there have been negotiations, but negotiations against the clock, with a proposition lying in the Storting over it. Not so strange that with such a hurry and with a negotiating climate that ‘this is going to go through, cost what it will’, there is therefore no consensus. A natural consequence of the fact that the negotiations did not take place during the haste of ours, should have been that the proposition was withdrawn, and that a new one, with a negotiated new solution, was presented to Stortinget – but no, it was not. The government comes with a longer answer to a question from the committee, and then this answer pastes as a very lengthy quote into the proposition as a new case file – a very strange procedure. At the top of it all, the Council of State answers that further progress depends on local support. So he opens, as he also explains in an answer to me, for guarantees from the municipality of Bærum, for example, which has been presented in the media. If this has happened before, if it's all right formally, and that it's the County that approves it in that case, it's not the point. What's the point here is that this is probably a slum, which again feels like an overrun of the big regions. It was obviously not enough that the Week was trodden down over the heads of the three counties; now the Viking construction is also to be disenchanted in some way. I then take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2357	Then the representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2362	The adoption of the toll proposal for the E18 Lysaker–Ramstadsletta is a major milestone. I have worked on this matter for as long as I have been elected to the People's Party, and I am very happy that we have found an agreement in Stortinget on a solution for the E18 West Corridor that ensures better accessibility for public transport, a new collective terminal on Lysaks, new, good bike routes and that the cars are now going underground. It means more space for people, for walking and cycling, and for urban development, and less road like barrier in the community, and opening up to the fjord. It means a lot to everyone living in this area, both for those who live there now, who have been heavily plagued by noise, dust and pollution for decades, and not least for those who are going to live in this area in the future. Most people see that Bjørvika and Fjordbyen are positive for Oslo, and now we have arranged for similar developments in neighbouring municipalities west of Oslo. Better collective solutions have always been goal number one for the Left, and the consensus between the government parties and the Workers' Party is incredibly important for people who are engaged in better collective solutions near Oslo. The scandal about E18 has also put the Fornebubanen on hold for too long. Now we can also go further with Fornebubanen, which is the most important environmental project in the Oslo area. Fornebuban is not just a T-Bahn to Fornebu, it's a T-Bahn from Fornebu via Lysaker and Skøen to Majorstuen, which will increase the capacity of the T-Bahn network in Oslo by 20 pst. There are many millions more public trips on rails this year. And without an agreement on the E18 West Corridor, landowners' contributions of billions to the development of the Fornebuban would disappear. It has been very important to be pragmatic and find solutions across political parties, municipalities and county municipalities, and it is through building cooperation and finding solutions over time that we are able to get important projects realized. Lack of willingness to compromise was putting an end to better solutions for people in our region. It's the people who are able to agree, who have things to do, and it's also the basic premise for all transportation projects in Oslo, Akershus and the Week in the last decades. One of the first day's councillors in Oslo did when they came to power, was sign on to build out the E18, and in an Evening Post interview a few months ago, the councillors also admitted that they would continue to expand it. With the support of the Workers' Party on Stortinget, it is now implemented, and then with a solution with more collective and bicycle, and that is very good. For the Left, the most important thing has been to find solutions. Through cooperation, we have agreed on a sensible way to get noise and pollution in tunnels, own bus files each way, efficient bike routes and a very important collective terminal on Lysaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2375	The truth is at stake in this matter. Let me be very clear: that this will not increase road capacity, is directly wrong. The road is still longer, more expensive and wider than what was agreed four years ago. That this is good for public transport is also wrong. The solutions the majority will adopt today, have more roads, more car fields and more complicated intersections, and the sum will therefore be that we get smaller and shorter collective fields towards Oslo than it is today. That is why Ruter, the expert on public transport in the region, is also critical. The project is still larger than the local parties agreed in 2016, and as of today there is no local agreement on a larger project than we had in 2016. What is presented as major changes is, in effect, marginal flickering. It does not respond to what the citizens of Viken and Oslo need in order to travel easily and environmentally friendly. Instead, the car has been taken as a starting point, as if we were a completely different place in Norway than in a growing metropolitan region, and as if we were at a completely different time in history than in 2020 when it comes to how we think urban development in large areas of growth. You plan for more noise, more queue and worse air. Of all the contradictions in this case, the worst is that the government and the majority try to push local authorities to make choices that sabotage both the zero growth target that the Storting itself has adopted and Norway’s obligations to cut 50–55 pst. of our greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. It should be the opposite. It should have been such that the Stortinget worked hard to ensure that the objectives set by the Stortinget were followed up locally. In order for the collective field to function out of Oslo, Vegvesenet assumes that traffic in Oslo must be strongly reduced, by 20 p.m., without any kind of prediction of how this should happen, in particular with a capacity increase for the car. The answer is simple: it is really just sky-high toll charges that can prevent traffic from increasing if we adopt this project now. So you're going to end up with a situation where you're going to spend 16 billion instead of spending a lot of money on collectives, bikes and multiplications first. kr – or more, the gods know – for a road project so as to set the toll so high that people can't afford to use the car into town. The Transport Economic Institute notes that the recipe for zero growth in car traffic is not an extension of road capacity but an improved collective offer, safe bicycle and pedestrian routes and the introduction of restrictive measures against car traffic. Luckily, we have a City Council in Oslo and a County Council in Viken that listens to the experts and does not allow itself to be pressed by the Stortinget. For us in the Green Party, it is beautiful to see how steady our negotiating partners stand on the political platform we negotiated this autumn. These are politicians who see what's at stake. Continuing the planning of the project without a county guarantee for Stortinget will now break completely with how we plan large-scale transport projects in Norway, precisely to give citizens predictability and ensure local anchoring and a responsible use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2390	In this case, the Workers' Party and the bourgeois government parties will impose on people in Oslo and Viken a highway that the inhabitants themselves do not want, at a cost of several tens of billion dollars at the top of it – the tollbonanza of the times – just to be able to knock even more cars into the city with even more pollution. The size has adopted a zero vision, i.e. there shall be no growth in car traffic into the city. This is a transport policy in reverse countries, and it is a sad day for those who fight for viable urban air, against climate change and for a forward-looking transport policy. The working party is present here and ensures a majority for an environmentally hostile, anti-urban motorway from Lysaker to Ramstadsletta in Bærum. This motorway has a price of over 4 billion. kr per kilometre and is Norway’s third most unprofitable road project. Everyone here in the hall knows – at least everyone in the hall should know – that the more highway you build, the more traffic you get, and the longer the queues get. It's been like this since the 1950s. It should soon take over the Workers' Party, and it is time that we also take the consequences of it. We and people in Oslo know that the car takes too much space in our city, and that it costs a lot of crazy money with the big road projects. Therefore, the main job should have been to provide an even much better collective offer as an alternative to the private car. From the moment one has been opposed to this sample motorway project, which is financial galimatia and also completely insane toll. We know that the Oslo region needs better public transport, not more motorway and not even more toll bill for most people, which this project is going to entail. A clear majority in Oslo City Council, and also in Viken County Council, want to scrape the expansion of the E18. That the Right refuses to put away an old-fashioned highway solution, against the will of local democracy, may not be so surprising. The fact that the working party does the same thing may be a little bit more disappointing. We believe that transport policy should be anchored in open and broad democratic processes locally and not just knocked through in the Storting against the will of local democracy, against climate considerations and not least against urban air transport, as the government and the Workers' Party are doing in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2401	It has been a long and fragile road to where we are today, but now I am pleased that the Labour Party at Stortinget is taking part in taking responsibility and supporting the development of E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta. This is a project that has been waiting a long time. The E18 Western Corridor has, from the establishment of Oslopackak 3 doctors as one of the most important commitments for the broad political unity of the package, as well as the large-scale contribution to public transport that has taken place in the last few years in the capital area. The traffickers from the west have paid almost 4 billion. kr in additional tolls on the county border since 2008. It is really time for this project, which is an urban development project, to be realized. The case was submitted by the government before Christmas and was based on a lengthy process and local policy agreement and decision on financing solution, a toll scheme and local guarantee position. When the Viking withdrew the guarantee in February, a decisive premise for the matter fell. It is a fundamental principle of toll financing in Norway that it is based on regional/local initiatives and decisions. I don't want to change that. The scheme whereby county councils and/or municipalities provide guarantees for toll loans in road projects is also a long-term and established practice. This means that local authorities are involved in taking responsibility for the financing plan for the project. It is most common with county guarantee, and since it is also the county municipalities that own toll companies, it means that they can value their interests as guarantors by focusing on effective collection and good financial management of tolls through the company. It is not up to me to change this practice by providing a State guarantee for the project. Thus, a local guarantee decision must be in place and must be a provision for the Storting decision. I hope, but I can't guarantee that such a quick solution will take place once the Storting has dealt with this matter. New E18 is not a monster road project, but an urban development and collective project, a road project for the future and part of a holistic transport solution for the capital region – a project that Oslo has received in Bjørvika, and which they now want in Filipstad. We do not know today what the outcome of this matter is, but now the Storting has done its part of the job. If we succeed, I will extend special thanks to two gentlemen whom I think he should go to, Sverre Myrli and Nils Aage Jagstad, for their work in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2421	Now the previous negotiations on the E18 and the negotiations on Oslopackakt 3 between the State, Oslo and Viken were actually conducted in parallel. After you didn't reach an agreement on E18, you didn't come forward with Oslopackak 3. In the vote, the majority of the committee states that it is ‘very important’ that a ‘to get started again with the negotiations on Oslopackak 3’. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Has he noticed the Committee's impatience after resuming the Oslopack 3 negotiations, and how does he, as Minister for Transport and the State, intend to contribute to further negotiations on Oslopacket 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2426	I think that the debate on Oslopak 3 has been an incredibly important and good one for the Capital Region. It's meant a lot. We have found cross-political solutions, and my wish is that Oslopackak 3 should live on. But there is no doubt that when we know how important E18 and the West Corridor have been as a base pillar in Oslopack 3 work, that if there is not just an E18 West Corridor, it will be very demanding to get Oslopack 3 to live on. But I want to contribute, and I want to have a meeting with the parties. It's also because I want to get the Fornebuban project in place. It is a good project. So I want to take an initiative to meet the parties Thursday next week. The reason for that meeting will be the decision taken today by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2433	I thank you for your answer and wish you every success with very important meetings and important negotiations. Now the state council itself was in the middle of what's basically my next question -- it's about the Fornebuban. We all remember for some election campaigns since four bourgeois party leaders who stood with spades and a bit of each out on Fornebu and promised state contributions and speed in the Fornebuban. It hasn't exactly happened that way, but anyway, it's important to get on with work with the Fornebuban, and now you look at complete transport solutions in the West Corridor, where the E18 development both opens up the so-called Gejöns diagonal in Bærum and opens up a new road to Fornebu, so you get complete transport solutions. Then my question is: what is the state's contribution to Fornebubanen, and how does the Minister of Transport see the progress to get the Fornebubanen under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2442	At the next week's meeting I just want to take what should be the state's contribution. But what we need to know is that without the E18, the basic owner's contribution to the Fornebuban will disappear. That's $2.50. kr. So without the E18 project coming into place, we don't have funding for Fornebuban. I share with the representative Myrlis both the commitment and the desire for us to get started with the Fornebuban. It's an important part of both getting a better public transport service to Fornebu and because it's going to be part of a T-Bahn network that means a lot. And I feel, even though today we're discussing a project there's something inconsistency about, that there's a very common region pointing at Fornebubanen. It's my wish that we should be closed with now providing security both for the E18 and for the Fornebuban.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2450	I'm not going to talk about the road. I'll come back to it in my post. I think the Fornebuban and the solution there is an exciting thing. And the Boring Company, which Elon Musk owns, is one of the companies that now wants you to look at and figure out whether you can bring down the costs, because it costs a lot of money what is now in Fornebubanen. They are very concerned about the possibility that someone can also look over and follow up on it, and my challenge to the Council of State is: is there anything the Council of State will also give them the opportunity to look at – whether you can bring down the costs of choosing a new, modern, exciting solution that is forward-looking, and perhaps also autonomous cars instead of traditional ones, which is what is there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2457	I have myself received the presentation of The Boring Company, and there is no doubt that these present new solutions that I believe we will enjoy in the future. It might be exciting to have seen this against the Fornebubane project, but there's no doubt that the Fornebubane concept has come very far. Fornebuban is also part of a T-Bahn solution in Oslo that is already established on the technology that's there, and now changing the concept associated with the T-Bahn and the Fornebuban I think is a significant and difficult work. But I share with the representative Hoksruds both the vision and the thoughts that the kind of solutions that can use new technology could save costs, but also give us better supply. But I think for Fornebubanen, there's a good idea for it, and I don't want to go in there and delay a job. We've waited long enough for Fornebubanen, and I want it to work on that concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2462	The majority of the Committee’s proposals are based on the letter of the Minister of Transport of 29 May 2020, which has been highlighted several times, and the letter informs the Council of State of an adjusted alternative for the E18 presented by the State Road Administration in the negotiations. Since it has not been possible to achieve local political agreement, nor with the adjusted option from the State Road Service, it is therefore unclear which project we get with the proposal from the majority. This has only been reinforced when we have heard what has been said in the hall. At the same time, the majority of their comments state that ‘the Ministry is authorised to adapt the project in accordance with the changed assumptions’. So it's in the decision. What powers does the Council of State consider with the proposal made by the majority and what changes are needed to ensure that the Grand Duchy has to deal with the matter again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2469	It is very clear what project we are adopting today. When the Viking entered the negotiations, they had a decision on a holistic E18 project that ensures more good collective solutions and that contributed positively to the zero growth target. That's why the Biggest decides today. So it's going to have to have a local guarantee in place. We invite local authorities – we do not go beyond that rule – and it needs to be in place for this project to be realised. So it's not enough what's happening in Stortinget today, but it's a necessary commitment for us to succeed in this project. I would like to see that it had become a consensus, but I think the negotiations that have been have actually made the project even better. This is an urban development project, it's a collective project that several people have pointed to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2478	In my post I described a mildly said messy process in this matter, which bears the mark of overrun of two large regions. Too many people think it feels like an abuse of power. My question to the Council of State is simply: does the Council of State feel comfortable that so many people view this as just an abuse of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2483	I'm very comfortable with this. It was the Viking who drew his guarantee. We had to take that over us. Then it was quite natural, I think, to go into new negotiations. We're not going to run over the regional, local authorities, because we're saying that a local, regional guarantee must be provided for this project, as for all other projects. But if I had come with a state guarantee today, crossed and created a new principle for toll financing, I understand that one could have asked the kind of questions the representative Nävra raises here. But it's the Viking, who chose to draw the guarantee, who created this "rooted" situation. We have, as well as we have done, tried to clean up, and we have actually got a better project. But we need a local guarantee to get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2488	In this case, the county councils of Viken and Oslo are defending the Stortinget and government's environmental, climate and public health objectives by insisting – and thus being presented as difficult by some representatives in the Chamber here – that we should not extend the road capacity of cars into our capital area, which is growing, which needs much smarter mobility, and more on collective. When the Council of State entered the position as Council of State, he was clear that the climate would be a high priority. Unfortunately, the Council of State was the first to have been in the position that began to threaten to hold the Fornebuban back, i.e. not to contribute to financing the Fornebuban if an extension of the E18 was not put in place. I thought that was surprising. One striking point now is whether the state is satisfied with a local guarantee from a single municipality in Viken. Does the Council of State agree that if E18 is built outside Oslopackakt 3 and agreement between the parties sitting there, it would be negative for the overall planning of transport in the capital area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2495	We have kept to the negotiations that have been all along, and when we now build this project, we get as many horizontal fields as we've had before. We get more collective fields, we get a significant development of bicycles and walking paths, and we get a very big urban development project. I thought it was a little special – when I now see that Oslo wants to do the same in Filipstad, and I am positive about that – that this kind of urban development project is good in Oslo, but it is not good in Viken, according to Oslo’s stand. Which I have also answered in the questions to me: achieving the zero growth target with just this project is a good possibility for. This is a good project, but we're going to stick to that cutymen and the code we have about local, regional guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2502	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2509	Today we pass a milestone in the development of the new E18. The fight has been long and patience has been great. I myself entered the local government in Bærum in 1995, and then this was a highly topical political issue, and many had been in this fight before that time. What's interesting is that the traffic policies that you did in the capital 30 years ago, and that you're so proud of today, you're going to do in the western region 30 years later. It is high time to improve the accessibility and facilitate an environmentally friendly development in Asker and Bærum, and that time has come. We must remember that Stor-Oslo is one of the fastest growing regions in Europe. The population of Asker and Bærum is expected to increase by 50,000 people by 2030. The population growth and the resulting traffic growth must be taken collectively by bus in particular. So 55 pst. public transport from the west is actually to be taken by bus, which means that the bus must also be better accessible than it is today. This is something far more than a local road in Asker and Bærum. Studies show that 130 municipalities, directly or indirectly, will have a positive effect on the current development. We should remember that, and perhaps those who seem to be particularly concerned with environmental policy, that a total of 17 000 people in the Berum are plagued by noise and pollution every day from this road. It would be irresponsible not to do anything about it. Their patience has been tested for a long time, and they have been sitting in dwellings that have not been negotiable because this road has been planned. There is a clear national will represented here in the hall to implement this project. Locally in Asker and Bærum, it is a large majority for the same reason. We know that there is also, in fact, a majority in the Vikings to carry out this project, but the left-wing socialist parties and the Greens, as well as the Greens, have made this project their symbol to go against. The Minister of Transport was clear that the decision taken in the Gulf is to comply with the concept now being presented. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Transport who has put this project in good place together with the parties involved – a good political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2522	This must be the country's most important and long-term transport project. It's not only important for those who live there, but also for the rest of the country. Discussions have gone a long way, both in terms of costs, choice of lines, funding, share of tolls and, in particular, the impact on growth in car traffic – how will this turn out? Here it's important that one does several things at the same time, and it's a prerequisite that overall it's not going to be a growth, but it's going to be better. The growth of passenger traffic in and around the major cities is taken by public transport, bicycles and corridors. This is important for reducing queues, climate and air pollution, and it is absolutely necessary for cities to be good places to live and for developing new jobs. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that the last negotiations ended with the fact that much more was put on the table by the State in order to facilitate more public transport, and that, in order to achieve zero growth targets, the tariffs on E18 are also seen in connection with the tariffs in Oslopacket 3 and other instruments. Oslo is also facing major investments in collective projects in the coming years. The Labour Party believes that the State must take up to 70 pst. of the costs of these projects, against the commitment of municipalities to extensive housing near the links. The number of inhabitants is increasing rapidly and increasing transport demand. It is therefore essential that we now have an agreement on a new programme of action for Oslopackak 3 in the next four years. This ensures funding for Fornebubanen and a new T-Bahn signalling system, and it is also provided with significant means of operating that public transport in Oslo and Viken. This is important. That Oslo achieves its climate goals, and that we get better visibility and good collective systems here, is good for the whole country. The ability to reach a compromise is crucial in policy. This had to happen now. That's just how we move on, and that's what's best for both the country and Oslo as a city.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2534	Traffic growth throughout the Oslo area is to be taken through public transport. When we know how much growth you expect to get in this area, we know what a big ambition it is, and what a massive effort it means on the construction of new public transport, new railway lines and more take-offs on buses and trains. The thing we're discussing today is not about more road and car, it's about solving traffic challenges. It is about speeding up public transport, and it is about moving some of the traffic on other roads in Bærum to the E18. It is therefore not right that more cars will go – if you take all the roads in Bærum – across the border, across to Oslo. It shows very well the answer that came from the Minister of Transport. In addition, I believe that some of the most under-communicated in this project is how important it is for urban development. There are no other urban areas where people live so closely, who have not been allowed to cover their areas. It liberates the area that can be used in much better ways than to keep it on the road, like today. In addition, it will provide better air and less noise for the population living there. The people of Asker and Bærum have been paying tolls for years. They have paid it for public transport, for the construction of new bicycle routes, but they have also paid for the construction of E18. For years they have been promised this way, because the decision to take it is not taken today; it has been taken in practice many years ago. Now the matter has to be resolved soon. We from the Workers' Party have always been for the E18 project. Swearing Myrli referred from the Stoltenberg government, how we said the same thing then as what we say now, and we also say the same thing now as what we said before the 2017 elections. What we're doing today is following our promises to the voters. Finally, transport policy does not go far with uncompromising premises. You can keep the tab high, but then you stay out of the decisions. To implement transport policy projects, projects that will last for many years and have high costs, predictability and cooperation and trust over a period of time are needed. I would therefore like to join those who have praised all those who have been sitting together and have got this done here in Stortinget – and I would also like to add to the very good cross-political consensus it has been local in the municipalities that this applies to, who have worked together for years to get to the project that the Stortinget will adopt tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2549	I think the last talk talked about local unity. It caused a bit of scorching, but I might have heard it wrong. There are many aspects to the E18 project, including the revised proposal, on which SV is struggling or questioning. It's hard to see that there's no more road in the area and in the length, and SV is very much in doubt if this contributes to more collective travellers, which should be a goal. As far as I understand, Ruter has recommended that the entire project be subjected to stress testing, i.e. re-examined with critical eyes. Routes and the Directorate of Railways have not been assessed how to strengthen collective provision at the concept level, i.e. at an early stage, because it is natural to ask: What kind of transport should we choose to get people to Oslo? They've only asked what they think about different solutions, so if they've got that framework – that we're going to build E18 – and then you're going to think something more than that. It's very important when it comes to public transport, that those who really are professionals in this area come in at a very early stage. Maybe we'll get a That's what SV thinks is irresponsible. SV is also concerned about the extensive local road system on the surface of the tunnel solutions that facilitate driving between Upper Bærum and Fornebu and between Upper Bærum and Oslo. As far as I am concerned, it has become clear in the negotiations that Router and the Directorate-General for Railways are sceptical of the planned solutions and that it is deficiently investigated. We should worry about that a little bit. SV believes that the State Council has no coverage to claim that the project contributes positively to the zero growth target. The project generates more car traffic, but there is a rescue to bring down car traffic, and it's probably very, very high toll tariffs. So maybe that way we can avoid traffic increasing, but then we have a very unsocial perspective. SV can definitely be involved in individual aspects of the project, such as Lysaker bus terminal, easy connection to Fornebu and collective fields on existing roads, etc., but first and foremost we need to look at comprehensive solutions for transport in the region. And then, as I said, our best professionals must enter, also at railway and collective solutions, at an early stage of concept. It is not relevant for SV to participate in supporting a county guarantee in the Gulf of Lysaker-Beach if it is part of an extension up to Ramstadsletta to which there is no local connection. And that should be, it has to be, local consensus if this is going to slide in a proper way, and today it's not such a local consensus. Therefore, we believe that the matter should be sent back to the government in order to achieve such an agreement first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2566	It's a nice experience to listen to the debate that's going on here. Listening to the Green, SV and Red Environmental Party, it sounds like you're building a monster highway. When you listen to the government parties and the Workers' Party, it sounds like you're building a road with increased and good capacity. But the reality is that what you're doing is building a road that's going to have less capacity than the one you have today, and the drivers are going to pay 16.3 billion. kr in tolls. That's pretty special. And I think it's sad that the Greens' Environment Party, which is the biggest anti-car party – and which will always talk the car down – is being dragged after the champagne socialists in the Workers' Party, and that the Right also believes that what is coming is a good solution. This is an incredibly bad solution for the drivers in this country, and many, many are totally dependent on using this way. But they're going to have to get a bigger bill, and they're going to get less capacity than it is today. In addition, it says that we should ensure that we have even more restrictive measures in the event of growth in traffic. Then it's just reading the answer from the Council of State: Traffic growth is going to go up to 2040. This means that the poor drivers who are going to drive on this road in the future can only prepare themselves for being in line even further, that they have to pay even more in tolls. So it's the greeting from the majority that's going to go for this. I can't believe that neither the Red Party nor the Green Party are so very frustrated and believe that this is a monster road, because this is a road with less capacity than what you have today. It's pretty special. Then you haven't completely taken into account the reality and the facts. But I also have to say that it is quite special that there are some points in an attitude that are the basis for the decision we are now making, and make sure to put at 16.3 billion. kr to the drivers, which they have to pay, as said, in order to be allowed to stand in the queue. I hear the argument from those who live and work there, of course, and I have a great understanding of that. But I believe that if we were to do this, if we were to spend so much money, then let's make sure that the drivers get the real road once and for all – as the representative Johnsen referred to from Hedmark, where you build 43 km of road for 8 billion. kr. And here we're going to build 4.4 km – which is going to be the big monster road. I think people laugh when they hear that it's 4.4 km, and that the drivers are going to get less capacity than they have today. So I'm surprised at all the enthusiasm that's here. I think that someone should also think about the poor people who are going to pay this fee, namely those who are going to be allowed to stay in line and wait more, but who have to pay a lot, much is what they have already done. Fewer fields and fewer files should frame the drivers. It's an incredibly bad solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2579	To characterise those of the Workers' Party who have engaged in this debate, such as the 'champagnesoisalistar', is totally wrong, and such characteristics should not come from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2584	Today, we are dealing with a major and important road project. New and expanded E18 has been sought and extended from both the localities and all others using the road. Unfortunately, we see today that the majority will be in favour of poorer solutions, which will end up costing ordinary people billions in tolls. The majority chooses to go back instead of going this way into the future. And that's just the future and the opportunities that technology gives us, I want to talk a little bit about. Because even though the majority want to take the E18 backwards in time, it's not like that's the only option. We in the Progress Party are technology optimists. We want the best solutions for the money, and we know that both today's and tomorrow's technology can help us. There is now a significant degree of technology development that makes the solutions in the field of transport both better and cheaper. The introduction of new technologies can cut costs and improve existing solutions, but it can also provide the basis for entirely new ways of solving tasks. With the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport, an expert group was set up in 2018 to assess the potential of rapid technological developments in transport infrastructure. The report was submitted in the summer of 2019 and gives a good account of the opportunities, challenges and paradoxes that the rapid development of technology entails. New transport technologies do not eliminate the need for infrastructure, but can be used in a better and more flexible way. A vehicle that has previously been associated with environmental challenges can become environmentally friendly and, in the future, large vehicles can be replaced by smaller vehicles with greater flexibility. The Party therefore considers it important that transport planners and authorities closely monitor and evaluate new solutions relevant to Norwegian infrastructure and transport needs. In the current national transport plan, the Progress Party ensured that significant amounts were made available for testing and developing better technologies. The Progress Party believes it is important to develop good collective solutions, while at the same time ensuring the best possible solution for the money. Take the example of Fornebubanen: it's gradually a huge project with great potential for savings. The track shall have 8,700 metres of tunnel and six stations, and the price shall be calculated at 17 billion. kr. What can new technology do for us in this project? Looking at what the Norwegian company Seabroker works with in the United States, we find a good example of using new technology to significantly reduce construction and operating costs for collective solutions. They are now building a public transport tunnel solution in Las Vegas with a total of 2.6 km of tunnel and three stations. The entire project costs about 525 million. kr. If we scale this up to the level of Fornebubanen, which is at the top of six times larger than the project in Las Vegas, we quickly see that there is potential for savings. For example, although we say that everything is three times more expensive in Norway than in the United States, we land at a cost of 10 billion. kr. That's 7 billion. kr less than today's calculation. Here tomorrow's technology has opportunities to give us great savings already today. For this reason, the Progress Party is today promoting a proposal asking the government to include new technologies and alternative solutions that can reduce the cost of future collective solutions, for example. the connection between Fornebu and Lysaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2601	It is an important decision we are making today to get the toll bill for the E18 Lysaker – Ramstadsletta through in Stortinget. I want to praise the Committee for finding good solutions, including with the Council of State, in terms of both Lysaker collective terminal and better collective fields both east and west. And then I'm going to give Bård Hoksrud right in one thing, and that's that this isn't going to lead to more traffic towards Oslo, because this is a good solution, and it has a long story. I have been working with Oslopackak 3 all the time since we first negotiated and proposed it back in 2002–2003. Mr Igstad has also been with you since then. The representative Solveig Schytz has also been in this process for a long time, and Sverre Myrli has also been in this process for a long time. And throughout this time, it's been part of the consensus that we're going to have an expansion of E18 westward. It has not been my main concern, but I have had respect for the fact that there has been a necessary part of the consensus we have had on Oslopackak 3, because Oslopackak 3 has been driven through today's government parties – the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right – together with the Workers' Party, and with a little shifting support from other parties. And what haven't we done in those years? We've rusted up the entire T-Bahn network in Oslo. We are now in the process of upgrading the tram line that we have, with street upgrades. We've set up a tunnel in Bjørvika, which has opened up the entire area of urban development. We have established a cooperation between Oslo and former Akershus on the collective side, which provides a bus offer that this region has never had or been near before. And we've reduced the prices by 20 pst. Now we have to look forward. Now we need to deliver on the E18, because it's part of the consensus, and we need to have the broad majority to move on. The solution no longer provides traffic towards Oslo. It provides good local solutions, but above all it opens up for us to move on with the next big project, which is Fornebubanen. And the Fornebuban is important for the stretch from the Major Room to Fornebu, but it's about the entire collective system in Oslo, where we get a new T-line, we get up the capacity through the center, and we also get increased capacity on the bus offer because we release the buses that are now going from Fornebu. Now we'll get a much better offer all over the city. I don't understand why the Greens and Greens are running on with their resistance to one project and are trying to stop it and thus stop the whole of the collective offer, as we have shown that we can do, and that we need to keep pressure on in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2614	There are a few things in this debate that I have to deal with. One is this overdrive thing. The matter that we are dealing with today was transferred from Akershu County after they had taken their decisions. It was not on the Viking's table as one thing, because it was processed by Akershus. Then it's a little strange that the parties that have gone to the election to cancel the Viking, who will have dissolved the Viking, which some of the first is trying to stop a decision made by an almost unanimous assembly in Akershus. It's the paradox here. From 2008, Akershus has been in the driver’s seat for this regulatory plan. They have taken the heavy decisions. They have taken decisions on how this should be done – they have given a guarantee. And then the Viking comes and says no, we won't, because we don't want to go. I have to say it's a little special when you try to use the tolls that this is going to go in, somewhere else in the country. This also applies to the Progress Party, which is very concerned that these 17 billion. kr should go to other places – no, it's tolls, so we're not going to use them. We'll take some loads when we get there. One of our main points is that we actually believe – as the old expression says – that politics is the art of possible, but we are totally dependent on having counterparties out there that also see the importance of making compromises. But what we've met in the Vikings, and what we met in Oslo in the final phase here, is a lack of willingness to compromise. If one negotiates with one counterparty and the parties negotiate and negotiate in 13 meetings, but at the end of the day is not willing to meet the other one meter, then someone has to take responsibility. This isn't any country road. This is a European road. It doesn't have a function just in Bærum, but it has a function for the whole country. And even if we get a zero-emission vehicle, a T-track, a tram – and what we have to get – the growth of the population will lead to the need for freight transport. The roads are going to do that job. What we're doing now is we're entering into a compromise, and there's been a positive development in the relationship between these brokers and the Viking. What's missing now is that the people in the Viking Bay are saying, "Yes, we got so far. That was actually good. Here, everyone can be a winner if you just see the positive in the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2627	We note that several of the projects launched in Norway have had significant overruns. We've been dealing with a lot of them over the past few weeks, and if we look at the map, I think it's within a $50,000 map. So that's where the money has been used. When we're concerned with cost control, we're actually concerned that we need to know what we're getting. When a proposal is made to reduce the level of ambition, it's not reduced by a single penny. It's still going to be 17.3 billion. NOK, and then they say that the project has only become more robust. At the same time, the Council of State is told that he has free lines to adjust this project within two-three pages of a proposition text, which is the case from a letter that came from the Minister. I fully understand that many in this Chamber who have been on the pulpit are concerned that these are good projects for this region. I fully understand that. But there has to be some of us that see this in a different context. Then I would like to mention that in, for example, major projects, mentioned in the debate, for which New Roader has been responsible, often have such small urban and development measures – there may be a bridge over a river, or there may be a bus pocket – just been scrapped away from the project, and one has said that we should not have this. If a municipality in the districts disagrees with this, the answer is that then we build the road another place. So we're sitting now and dealing with a matter where most of the money goes to urban development. That's good action, I agree, but we call it something else. It is a way to finance urban development. And then we have a completely different methodology in the rest of the country, where you have to build cheaper, more efficient and with better use of the money. I don't think people think this is entirely right. Forty billion. kr we could maintain the entire county road network throughout the country, or we could carry out racial protection throughout the country – only on this project. So it has to be allowed that someone is up with his finger and says something about cost control, as a minimum, because we haven't seen much of that lately. Then you can only mention the Eastfold Railway and the Follo Tunnel – that's what most of it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2642	The Oslo package, now Oslopackak 3, is the mother of all city parcels and urban growth agreements – do not kill the mother. It was really Oslo and the surrounding municipalities that were the driving force for better urban environment solutions. Trondheim took the ball, and then Stavanger and Bergen – there are many cities that would like such agreements. There's a local obligation in it, because it's not that it's just getting money; there's an agreement with the state where giving and taking brings both duties and rights. Or to put it like this, it's carrots and whips. The E18 project is a piece of the entire Oslopackak 3. It's not directly, but indirectly, it's quite clear. With regard to what both Ola Elvestuen, Sverre Myrli and others have said here today about the success that has been achieved in Oslo in view of the things that have been accomplished, I think that those who rule and have power in Oslo today, the Labour Party and the Green Party, should be a little proud of what they have also contributed to. Clearly, the development that has been in Oslo has been very good for the city, for the nation and for the residents in terms of CO 2 emissions. It's attractive to live in Oslo, and that's because you have the fantastic public transport – over 1 million passengers a day are in public transport in Oslo. It wasn't like that in the 1980s, when I lived in Oslo for five years. At that time there was more congestion in the car, today it is a very good alternative with public transport. So one has shown how this can be solved in all the other big cities in Norway, and I think this is now a good compromise and a good solution for developing public transport even more. The fornebuban can be the new big one, and I agree with the Progress Party that new technology is good, but we must remember that it is an existing T-Bahn project that is now to be expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2656	What now seems to be a clear majority in this Chamber has been called, in the course of the debate today, both crunches, democratic problems, abuse of power and sabotage. There are, like, no limits to what kind of words you can use. There are people who first criticise the state for not agreeing with local authorities. Then the state changes the project to meet local authorities. So the same people criticize that the state has changed the project. Someone has to decide: Is it correct or wrong that someone changed the project? The debate bears the mark of slogans. To be honest, I'm a little unsure whether everyone who swings to the high altitudes has seen the changes that are now being made in the project. Those who are most concerned with slogans, unfortunately I have to bother a little bit with some factual information. The truth is that E18 is part of the national transport plan. E18 is inside Oslopackak 3. I brought with me the Oslopack 3 agreement from 2016. I'll quote one sentence from existing Oslopackakt 3, which reads: ‘For the E18 West Corridor, Oslo and Akershus agree that the Lysaker-Beach route will be conducted as the first stage of the Lysaker-Drengsrud route, with the aim of starting construction at the end of 2018 in line with current plans.’ It's Oslopackak 3. So Oslopack 3 says that E18 is going to be built all the way to Boysrud, which is in Asker. What the disagreement has been about is what should be the first stage. It says, as I just quoted from 2016, that then the consensus was that it was going to be Lysaker–Beach. Then the professional authorities and the department come to Stortinget and say, "Sorry, it's a very bad solution – it's a cheaper and worse solution, we don't recommend it. Then Stortinget says, "We get that." It was a unanimous transport committee that said in 2017: then we change, so that the first stage of the E18 expansion becomes Lysaker – Ramstadsletta. So this has been working for a long time. There's nothing we've cooked up in the back room right now. This is thoroughly investigated, and a serious and proper work that now seems to find its solution. It is now a better project that gets a majority in Stortinget. Lying collective terminal is built as part of the project. Bus traffic is getting better conditions. The amortisation period is extended and thus the toll tariffs are reduced and the costs of the project are cut. This is a great day for people on Lysaker, Hövik and elsewhere along the E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2671	I want to go back a little bit to these nasty 4.4 kilometers that are going to be built. We in the Progress Party are very concerned that there will be six fields. It's important to get better traffic flow in and out of Oslo. After all, the E18 is a national highway that unfortunately crosses the entire capital. It is important for us in the Progress Party to improve the capacity and traffic flow of the E18. It's important not just for Oslo and Akershus, but it's important for the whole country. It's also logical and correct that we continue the six fields that are going through Oslo today. In the Opera Tunnel there are six fields all the way, and it has to be continued westward towards Akershus. I have to say that when I hear the Red Party and the Green Party here in the debate, one would almost believe that the E18 is not a national highway, but a local Oslo road that they obviously do not fully understand the usefulness and importance of. They talk about it being old-fashioned to build better infrastructure and better roads. They talk about it clearly not being forward-looking. We in the Progress Party would rather say the opposite. Fortunately, the Council of State also insisted that it is forward-looking to build a better path with better capacity, hopefully. That is what the Progress Party wants to propose. That is not what is in the proposal, but it is in our proposal. We get more and more autonomous vehicles. We have electric cars, and one has a completely different transport solution in the future than what you have today. So there's clearly a need for roads. That will always be necessary. What matters to us in the Progress Party is to have freedom of choice. Sometimes you want to travel collectively, and sometimes you travel individually by car. One then has a freedom and a flexibility that is important to have. In order to cut costs in the project, a reduced road capacity project has now been submitted. It is totally inappropriate for the Progress Party to be involved in supporting a proposal that will be a loss-making matter for the drivers. First, the drivers are forced to take almost the entire bill in the project, and in addition, they will not get a better path with six fields since parts of the capacity must be collective. Consequently, the Progress Party has its own proposal that the road solutions should be adopted as originally planned. It is important to avoid that the drivers remain in a stationary queue for hours, while at the same time paying the bill for all the other measures involved in the project. Then, in the Progress Party, we're a little satisfied that the Center Party wants to cut costs. We think that is positive. But we're a little bit critical and a little bit skeptical, because as we read the proposal of the Center Party, and as it's formulated, they want to cut all the costs, including the road costs, to reduce the total cost of the project. We believe that to be wrong in the Progress Party. We propose that one should cut off all other measures than cutting on the road itself, which is important to increase capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2684	When I listen to this debate, one should almost think that some people see it as if this project has almost come down from the sky, out of nowhere. It doesn't. This, as many have been in the room, has been a part of the Oslopack 3 deal for a long time. The Oslopack 3 deal is not a picklist of projects that you can pick from just as it suits you. When the MDG and SV now want to pick out this project, the whole of the Oslopackack 3 deal. That's not what we're going to accept. This is why it is important for us to implement this project – not only because the project is good in itself and the whole region, but also because it is important to implement the other projects in the Oslopack 3 conciliation. So it is now that this project is also not new in the national transport plan context. The first time it came into the national transport plan – as far as I am concerned, at least – was well in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, as the representative Myrli presented earlier today. And it wasn't this government that put it out. It was the government of Stoltenberg with a Central Party Minister of Transport who presented the national transport plan. Listening to the Center Party today, you wouldn't think that was the case. If the representative Bengt Fasteraune is so difficult to understand the adjustments made in the project, I would recommend him to read the letter attached by the Council of State, because there are only minor adjustments in the project within the cost framework. And the suggestion from the Council of State is that the overall project will be cheaper with the adjustments made — not more expensive. That this should be so difficult to understand with such limited adaptations, I find it hard to understand. This project has been locally anchored by decisions in Akershu County. That decision is also the basis for the fact that the State has used at least EUR 1,6 billion. kr for planning, ground work, etc. There must also be a degree of predictability for local authorities in these processes when we are going to spend as much money planning a large, important project, both locally, regionally and nationally, such as the E18. It's time, in my opinion, that we are now able to land this project. I have great expectations that both the Vikings and local authorities will now take over and go into this, and realize that it is important to have the local guarantees put in place so that we can get on with all the other good projects that are in this. So a little visit to the Progress Party at the end. I just want to remind you that the original proposition that is underlying here has been presented by a Progress Party State Council, Jon Georg Dale, in its time – also with the funding plan that they are now criticising.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2699	I think this is a good debate, which brings out the soundness of this project, and the representative Elvestuen described Fornebubanen and what is in that project. I want to say that when someone says that I have threatened the Fornebuban, it is wrong. I've pointed out that these two projects are related. There's nothing I've believed in. That's the physical way it is. Vestrelenke, E18, is linked to this project, and we also know that the funding, the basic owner's contribution of 2.5 billion. kr, is part of the financing also up against Fornebubanen. I also thought we should listen to the representative, Gunnes. When a crowd says that Oslopackak 3 is all the "city growth agreement's mother," it says something. And this has just been a very positive thing, where we have got cross-political unity and gather about good results and progress. And yes, I'm worried that just where we're standing is going to be a break with the good line we've had. We're supposed to be co-witnesses. So we've used 1.6 billion. kr in the planning of this project. Is it right to put it away, to start new rounds? I also have to say that the parts that are now going to be the most active towards it say that we can do the same thing as they say no in the Week. We can do that in Filipstad -- the exact same idea, the exact same urban development work. They say yes to it in Oslo, but no to it in the Week. Then the representative Hoksrud says: Poor people who pay. Yes, we can understand. But they want you to do this. They say yes to it, and they have paid 4 billion. kr from 2008 until today. I also want to remind the Progress Party that Jon Georg Dale said, "Nothing can stop the E18 project any longer." And so it is the Progress Party that stops the funding today, but I notice that the Progress Party is still running for the E18 project itself – that is the funding they are against. I think we're getting a better project through the adjustments we've been given. We get a clear collective effort. We get Lysaker Collective Station. We're going to bet on foot and bicycle roads. And we get an urban development project. I just hope that what we're doing today is good enough to get in touch with the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2710	I have to spend some time going into a manifest misunderstanding at the Advance Party. Building a road on the Hedmark and building a road in the capital area is like comparing apples and pears. That shows the large amounts – 1.5 to 1.6 billion. kr, was well said – which has already been used for the planning and redemption of properties. It's not comparable. I'm not getting a complete grip on the Progress Party in today's edition here in the Chamber. They want to build big. They don't want to spend tolls. How, then, is it to be able to carry out such a large project as the Progress Party really argues for? At least the state can't take it on its own. I would say that former Minister of Transport Jon Georg Dale had a completely different and much more constructive approach to the matter. I forgot to say in my previous post that he deserves tribute for promoting this proposition to Stortinget before Christmas. If Stortinget had not received this proposition, they would not have had a case to deal with. The local representative of the Progress Party has been a good partner and a weapons contributor to this project. So I'm choosing to believe that the rhetorical vocals that have been performed today by the Progress Party related to this matter are actually a reflection of today's impulsive approach to the debate. Then we have to remember that 55 pst. of the traffic growth generated by population growth in the western region is to be taken by bus. And if that's going to be possible, something has to be done about the accessibility of the bus, because that performance is very poor today because of off- and off-road ramps and just one too weak capacity. And I have to say that what I hear from the Center Party is a continuous series of subversive arguments that they're really against the project. But then I dare remind the centre party that the local representative from Akershus, Gülsvik, had a big and great full page in Asker and Bærum Budstikke in the 2017 election campaign and was genuine for the new E18. But when it comes to the realities, and this is to be dealt with in reality, we see that this is not something the Center Party is concerned about, and we all know why.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2721	I belong to those who are happy for the good job, I would say, who are now done by both the Council of State and the Transport Committee – with whom I believe he has had a good cooperation – and the majority there. I want to say that I'm happy every time we adopt the E18 westward, I, because we're still doing that, and we started with it under the Stoltenberg government. That's how it's been said that this project has been a prerequisite for me, and many others, since 2008, have paid tolls on E18. It would come out if we ended up paying tolls on E18, paying tolls to anything other than E18. It is part of the background that we are now dealing with this matter again. As I said, I am pleased that there has now been an agreement, with the adaptations that are natural, and that the project is now finally being realized. When I hear the debate, I'm sitting and I'm a little bit surprised, because to me, it sounds like some people think that a road in Akershus – or Viken's name is unfortunately now – is actually a local road project in Oslo. But that's not it. One thing is that we who don't live in Oslo, sometimes need to be in the capital, and that's how it should be accessible to people else in the country. But that's not just that, because E18 is for us westfolding the road if we're going to the Gardermoen, and actually it's that E18 is the main road from Kristiansand to Trondheim. That's what we're talking about -- one of the most important national roads we have in the country. That is why, for the part of Westfold, we have always been concerned about, in our own party and in the light of the national plans, that we must also get this project going. So here's a long story that I hope will be dealt with for the last time, and that it will be implemented. There is at least reason to be pleased with the consensus on an important national road established by a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2730	Now others have also been about what I was going to say about, but I am going to repeat the words of a Minister of Transport. He said nothing can stop the E18 now. So whoever said it was the previous Council of State in the Ministry of Transport. That's what Jon Georg Dale said about promoting this proposition. And then the representatives of the Progress Party come up on this pulpit and criticize their own child. I live in close proximity to the E39 in Stavanger, and the residents fight to get the road in the tunnel through a residential area north of the city, the part called E39 Smiene-Harestad. They would have cheered and drank champagne for weeks if they had got that way in the tunnel, for they were denied it for economic reasons. This is an environmental project. In addition, the level of tolls is now lower than when the Progress Party Councils made this proposition. This is a result of a good political craftsmanship of several politicians from several parties – instead of the reindeer and political game that the representatives of the Progress Party currently perform. As I said, this is a good environmental project that will benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2741	I refer first to what the Workers' Party spokesmen have said in this debate as the reason for the decision we are going to take, and support it. Then I want to take the opportunity to give some reflections, and then I would first say that I perceive this as a joyous day – or tomorrow, perhaps – when the Storting makes the necessary decision. That's because the planning and the resistance to this at my discretion must end. The reason for this is that over the years I have wondered – I am from Buskerud and, like many who have participated in this debate, have been involved in this for many years – what is really the root cause of all the resistance. I'm actually struggling to understand that. I have looked at Oslopackakt3 and the development of E18 as a whole, and this is, of course, an environmental and collective project – in fact, it is first and foremost, because the development of E18 will solve traffic problems on the current route, but it must also finance basic and more demanding projects in the Oslo area to solve the collective problem. It is the fine craft in the interaction between these two factors that makes Oslopackak 3 unique, and – as a colleague here said – to the mother of all urban development projects. I fully agree and strongly agree with what has been said, that this is not a local road, this is a national project. We're talking about the entrance to the country's capital from the west, perhaps the most trafficked road in Norway. There are major problems with the closure of traffic today, and it must nevertheless be future-oriented to resolve it properly and in a qualified way. When you do that, and give Oslo, who has a lot of resistance, billions of dollars to solve their collective challenges, this must be a joyous day for everyone. Finally, just a heart attack, which I'm drawing with – I was saying – was joyous at this moment: we've already paid 4 billion. NOK without a spastique on the E18, so it might be time for us to do it. I wonder if in other parts of the country you would have accepted it as long as we had to accept it with that traffic on the E18 over all these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2754	That the Progress Party is not happy with tolls, should not be any bomb or any shock in this hall; I think everyone knows it quite well. But when the council says that everyone says yes to this project, I think it's going a little far. I think I know a lot of drivers who depend on driving on that road, who don't say yes to this project and the cost they get. When I hear the representative of the Rivers, I understand that he has a great need to talk away from the fact that this means a worse solution for the drivers who are going to drive on and use this road. I understand that from the Right you try to pretend that there won't be a worse solution than what they did when the State Council of Dale presented this with the motorway problem – but that's it. Then I hear that it is said by many representatives that yes, this is a good environmental project, so it benefits the whole country. Yes, it is a very good project, and no one has said that it is not good for the inhabitants of Bærum and for those who live along the road, where changes are made. And yes, I'm going to give the representative Myrli the right that there have been changes – unfortunately, the changes have caused the drivers, who are going to pay large parts of this bill, and who have paid almost 4 billion. NOK already. It's some of the things that lie there, and some of the things that underlie what we're discussing and dealing with today. It's very good for many, but it's like someone has to take that bill, because they have chosen to go away from the original proposal, which went on three lanes all the way, thereby reducing the capacity of the road. That means there's going to be less capacity, and that means you're going to have to pay more for it. If you had followed the comments of the Progress Party on, for example. to look at other solutions that could reduce costs, such as: in another solution to Fornebu, I think it's possible that you could have reduced the cost, and you could have reduced the load on the drivers if you wanted to, or you could have built other things that were also painfully long-lasting. There are many possibilities, but I feel that the majority have chosen and decided that this is what you are now going for. But I think it's good. I think the Council of State was clear that he sees that you can look at other new solutions, such as The Boring Company and others that suggest how to do things in a smarter way and reduce costs. And I think that's very good. That's why I want to say that yes, it's a happy day – and it's a great great weather out today – for all those who are concerned about a lot of what goes outside of E18. But for those drivers who are going to have to wait longer in line, I think maybe I would say it's a little sad like that, and then we're going to say 'dot, dot', second of all, it's not allowed, not parliamentary, to say from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2769	Definitely not. The representative Bengt Fasterale has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2776	It is especially important to hear that the documents have not been read in part. I've read them very well. I understand that the project has been in NTP, and I have also realized in my short period of time at Stortinget that there are many projects in NTP that are not being realised. I think that in terms of the cost here, we in the Central Party are asking that we go through and look at the costs and get cost reductions, and we ask that the negotiations take place before we get it to Stortinget. That's what we've been asking for. To the Progress Party: I just have to remind you that something happened with the toll due when the Progress Party was in government: it has increased. In 2013, it was 35 billion. kr, and in 2019 it was 52 bn. kr. Now, if you say that for this project, the entire bill is to be paid by the state, I think there are a lot of people around the country who are wondering how their projects are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2783	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2789	To the representative of the Senterpartie, I would first like to say that I can confirm that he has read the matter very well, because he has found that it is very much different from the way in this project. But I don't think he's come to realize that the Progress Party wants to cut all the other areas to reduce the cost of the bomb. It's actually the only party that takes care of it. To the representative of Elvenes: I'm a little unsure whether he got everything I said in my post instead, because I just pointed out that you can't compare E6 to E18, but my point was to show how crazy a very safe, safe highway you can get for a total of 17.4 billion. kr. There's an incredible amount of money, and it's actually possible to build almost 100 km of quadruples for such a large amount, not just a mess of 4.4 km. The point is that all the other costs — all the other activities and projects of this urban development project, which are cost-effective — should be reduced in order to cut the cost of the bomb.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2796	I thought I should thank you for a good debate. There are shared opinions about a lot of things, but I want to say that one of the experiences we've had with the E18 in Oslopackak 3, which means that we're actually going to build roads with post-clearance recovery, is that the E18 has had to pay tolls in the bombing of Lysaker since 2008, without getting the road. It's kind of fired away from the principle that you have to pay in parallel. So here we're talking about a lot of money that's already collected. In addition, we have done something else that is quite important for those who are affected by road projects, and that is actually getting started earlier on the ground. I know from my own experience in my municipality that when it was to be built a new E6, people spent years on old houses that they knew they had to sell, but they didn't sell them because they weren't fully regulated. Years passed when there were good opportunities to buy new homes, and then they couldn't do it. Here we have done ground work at an early stage, before the regulatory decisions. So there has been local governance on this project that has contributed to this getting as far as it has, and I think that should be taken into account in the further treatment out there in the region. When the Progress Party talks about Fornebubanen, I get the déjà vu feeling, because in 2007 the Progress Party stopped in Akershus the construction of an automatic train to Fornebu. It cost a billion dollars. kr. and it was for animals in 2008. Now the project costs 17 billion. NOK, but on the other hand you get something completely different. You get something that's more crowded. It's a continuous string from Fornebu to maybe Ahus or all the way up to Kjeller. It's a big system. Yeah, it costs. However, it is not useful to put a line on all the other good measures taken, such as: in Oslopackak 3. But the road projects have been what has given Oslopack 3 legitimacy. It's the people who have done that the drivers in our region have actually paid their dues, because they've seen that they've got better roads, better public transport, better bus services, and it's helped all the travelers, not just the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2809	I shall not prolong a good debate for too long, and I must give the representative Hoksrud straight in that it is not enough for everyone to be equally happy. But I have to say that this is a project that is really on the horizon for those who have been with and paid it, since 2008, precisely in the region from the west. Rarely have I experienced such a great commitment. So there's a lot of things I want to do in the end. This debate has highlighted the fact that we are running over the local regional authorities here. Then we should be aware that everything was anchored through the local regional authorities. That's when Viken took the guarantee that we had to take what we can call a rerun, and that rerun has given us an even better project – I want to say that. So many people say this is a "day of joy." I agree with that. So it's a necessary commitment that the Storting will make tomorrow with its decision, but it doesn't have to be sufficient. Because we're not running over, we need a regional local guarantee to get to the goal of this project, and of course I'll work for that, just to get ashore with it. This is also a strongly toll-funded project, and therefore it is not such that we can choose to use all the funds for this project around the country. It's going to be an overly simple analysis. To a large extent, it is precisely the users of the road who are paying for this project, which means that we get both public transport, walking and cycling routes and a urban development project that enables us to achieve goals, and I hope that is the result of this good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2820	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2825	I could not cheer myself up after hearing the representative, Fasterale, talk about tolls. That's kind of funny. Since 2010, this room has been handling 74 toll projects. How many of them have the Senter Party voted against? Zero. They've voted for everyone. The Progress Party has actually voted against more than 30 of them. When we got into government, we even made sure that two of the projects that were not here, but that were supposed to be here – there were 76 – were gone, as the Senterpartiet with Minister of Transport had promoted, namely on E34 in Seljord and Åmot and on E6 Alta west. So these toll projects put the Senterpartiet with the Minister of Transport and decided, so they were gone because the Progress Party was in government. Because we were in government, we also reduced tolls by many, billions of dollars in toll projects. So it shows that we're equal to that, and we were equal to that in government, but it happens that you have to do something. The centre party is talking about this, but they have voted for 74 toll projects since 2010, and they wanted to jam me a couple more, so they should sit quietly in the boat here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2830	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2835	It is hardly that much to add to the debate, but it strikes me that parties such as the Green, SV and Red Environmental Party, who have gone very high on the track today, are holding their rehearsed speeches, and then they go – disappearing from the hall. So these are parties that today, in the VG, call the case “miserable” and “conscious sabotage” and that in this afternoon’s debate have said that this is abuse of power. Then they say what they've decided to say a long time ago, deliberately spreads misinformation, but so they don't have the power to stand in the debate and participate in discussing and finding solutions. That is really quite indicative of the E18 debate. There are a lot of people who don't want to go into reality and figure out what the facts are. If I have been in doubt on this issue, at least I am not in doubt after this debate. It is absolutely right that tomorrow's Stortinget will make a decision on the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2842	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-18.ana.ud471e2848	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
