ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Sverre Myrli, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e35	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal from Kirsti Leirtrø, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Ingarill Olsen, Jonas Gahr Støre and signed measures for serious and sustainable aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e40	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e45	On behalf of the big business representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Marit Arnstad, Siv Mossleth, Bengt Fasteraune and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a Norwegian aviation crisis plan of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e50	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e55	On behalf of the big business representatives Lars Haltbrecken, Petter Eide and myself, I will put forward proposals for the cessation of refugee status.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that the Presidency has received an application from the Financial Committee for a new deferral of the deadline for the release of the financial position. The Presidency has granted this application and the deadline for the release of the financial position has now been set at 27 November. The financial debate is scheduled for Thursday 3 December. On this basis, the President proposes that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 79, the Stortinget departs from the sixth paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the budgetary positions of the Trade Committees should be examined by the Stortinget by 15 December at the latest. No objections have been raised — and it is deemed to have been adopted. The Presidency will establish a revised agenda for the budgetary procedure as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e86	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e95	Yesterday, there was an increase in unemployment in Norway. The Nav Director could report the arrival of one new jobseeker per minute to Nav in the last days. It comes as a result of the covid-19 infection situation and the policy measures adopted to close down. The goal here is to protect vulnerable and sick people, but the consequence is that hundreds of thousands of women and men are permitted or lost their jobs. That it took time to take action in March, we can understand. The fact that we are now in deficit, when the second wave of infection comes, is more difficult to understand, and it's critical. The outlawed and unemployed are among the vulnerable we now have to stand for. In the last few days, I've talked to many people who have lost their jobs, not just once, but twice. They may have been licensed in March, got the job back in August, and then got a permit again this fall, and don't know what the future will be like. There are often heartbreaking stories about people who get their lives put on hold, great uncertainty in the family economy and hardly any opportunities in the labour market. And at the bottom is that the companies they work in have not done a bad job, but they are obliged to shut down through political decisions. This pandemic hits crooked and unsocially, and part of the hard work must be to set up for them. In 2014, the government parties and the Progress Party removed the right to earn holiday money while going on a day-to-day basis. Now we see seriously the consequences of that. Over a quarter of a million women and men experience that they lose much of their holiday money next summer because they haven't earned up these rights while they've gone on a daily allowance. The Labour Party believes that it must now be the turn of ordinary workers – not new relief for them at the top. We want to reintroduce holiday supplements for daily allowances and compensate people for not being able to earn their holiday money, as they would if political authorities hadn't shut down. For an ordinary employee, this can be between NOK 10 000 and NOK 20 000, so that they can afford the rent and a holiday for the children. My question is: does the Prime Minister not see that in this extraordinary crisis, such holiday money will be a rigorous tool to compensate for something for those who serve at least and who have taken a heavy burden in meeting this pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e108	I am pleased that earlier this week we were able to announce that there was consensus among a majority of the Stortinget on the framework for compensation to companies in the future affected by covid-19. The government has always been clear that the companies affected are to be compensated. That's why we've also worked based on who's been hit at all times. At the same time, we have tried to work with schemes that contribute to more activity and more incentives for people to work. That's why we have, among other things, a payroll subsidy scheme for people who return to work, who have been in for more activity during the period we have had a bright spot in the infection situation. It is therefore important to say that we should adapt compensation schemes to the nature of the infection. We have shown a great deal of flexibility – and the Stortinget has also shown this – in being able to adapt schemes to the way the infection is at all times. But our goal is, of course, always that as many people as possible can work are at work, and that as many companies as possible have opportunities for activity are active. It has been fundamental to the way the government has moved in these matters. Then we're in a higher wave of infection now. It requires that we have more general compensation arrangements, and I am pleased that a framework for this has been clarified through the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party earlier this week. This means that there is a greater degree of stability for the companies that look forward to it. In the case of holiday pay, our starting point is that those who are unemployed also receive unemployment benefits in the case of vacations, and in the summer. Someone has come back to work, and the most important thing we do is actually to get people back to work. Therefore, it has not been a priority from our government to have holiday money based on the daily allowance. We have wanted to target the measures to a much greater extent to ensure that there are jobs, that people come back to work, but that those who are on the day-to-day pay will also receive daily allowances during the summer period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e119	There is no contradiction here between setting up businesses and ensuring that there is a job and ensuring that those affected by policies that shut down businesses can have a family economy that allows them to move on. It's not like you have a good economy when you go on leave, even with the improvements that have been made in the daily allowance here from Stortinget. So all that the Prime Minister says that businesses are going to come out on the other side of the crisis, yes, that there were no clear measures for it when the new infection measures came in the harvest, I think it is incomprehensible. But the attention to those people who will now experience losing thousands of dollars if they come to work in the new year, because they have been outsourcing large parts of 2020, it does not occupy the prime minister. It's also very negative for people who lose that money when you get to the vacation. They will probably not be able to take a vacation, if they can take a vacation. And we have a travel industry that needs people to travel around. Why is it that the Prime Minister is not concerned about seeing these people, who are among our most vulnerable in the crisis now under way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e124	The representative Gahr Støre is wrong when he says we were not prepared for action. We have been prepared for actions for the groups and jobs that have been affected all along. However, the device internally in the measures has changed slightly, from motivating to stimulating more activity because we wanted to get more people back to work. That is why we have had conversion measures, which is why we have had measures such as: for cultural activities to stimulate activity in winter months rather than providing compensation schemes only. But when we've seen that there's a need for something further, we've had a system that we've been working on in order to expand it. With regard to the question of holiday pay, I think it is important that we in this pandemic ensure that we do not make changes to major important schemes that have been implemented in recent years, which in turn will help to make the balance of the budgets that are pressing in the future more difficult. We made a priority in 2014, and we were clear that giving holiday money to people who had returned to work was less priority, while at the same time ensuring that all those who were on leave got money during the whole summer, and it ensured that it was the most important thing to get money, got money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e131	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e136	The balance in the budgets is about what priority is given. We believe that it is now the turn of ordinary workers and not those of the Prime Minister who look to balance. But let me ask you a specific question. Right Heidi Nordby Lunde, a social and labour policy spokesperson, calls the proposal to give holiday money to those on leave for madness. She believes that giving workers who have been on leave, holiday pay, which we believe is a fair mark-up in a vulnerable and under pressure economy, is like ‘giving unemployed people vacations from looking for a job’. Does the Prime Minister agree with that assessment, that losing that opportunity – you may have come to work in the spring, you may lose the opportunity, you may not get holiday money – is like taking a vacation from looking for a job? Is that crazy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e143	I do not know in what context this word has been used by the representative Nordby Lunde, therefore I will not comment on the question as such, because I do not want to confirm the variant that Jonas Gahr Støre now gives from the pulpit. But if I'm allowed to underline one thing: those who don't get holiday money now are the ones who have returned to work. They're the ones who actually work. You can go on a daily allowance, you can also travel if you go on a daily allowance, you can also get a chance to do it, but then it's the day payment system. This was the second part of the conversion we did when we changed in 2014, to make sure that those who are unemployed do not lose their income. They will still have their daily allowance, but we made sure that those who returned to work did not receive their daily allowance for the work they had done during the period, because the most important thing is to prioritise. Then I realize that for the Workers' Party it's just a matter of priority. I've seen their alternative state budget, and it's so deficient in the future that it'll be interesting in the future to know how the Workers' Party will cover up all its offerings, which come almost every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e150	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e155	Let me do a concrete example. I spoke to one yesterday, his name was Robin, who was alternately cook and receptionist at a hotel. He was licensed in March. Then he got a job again, for a short time, in the autumn and is now licensed again after the new measures shut down hotels and restaurants. He lives for a few thousand a month. If he comes back to work again – as we hope, in 2021, with a new vaccine, and let's hope that there will be a better situation – he will get a new click next summer. He must then go the holiday month almost without pay or compensation. Is it fair, Prime Minister, or is it perhaps this that is madness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e161	I've met and met many people who have lost their jobs, who are on the perm, and I know that the most important thing they're busy about is actually getting the job back. Working when you have had a long period of inability to work has a high value for everyone. That's exactly what we do by making sure that those who go on a daily allowance will still have the opportunity to get paid even during the summer holidays. Those who have returned to work will not get their holiday money, but they will get a job, and that is the most important thing. This was a reform that we changed, because we made a tip of what's most important in the future. It's ensuring balance in the budgets, prioritizing the weakest and ensuring that people get their jobs back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e166	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e171	The Prime Minister is trying to give the impression that they are prepared for what is now happening. It's quite incomprehensible that they're trying to do it. In September, the current compensation scheme for enterprises ceased. Payments from the compensation scheme currently agreed may be made at the earliest during January, most likely in February. The companies that are now noticing the closure of society are in a liquidity crisis. The messages are coming in that companies are going bankrupt, that jobs are going to disappear, and then the Prime Minister in Stortinget says that they are well prepared for the situation. It's serious. My question is, why was the government so poorly prepared that the measures to protect infection could once again mean that a company would have to pay compensation to the companies, that they do not now have a system that would make companies badly dependent on liquidity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e178	As I assume the representative is familiar with, there have been repeated publications of schemes relating to the tourism industry and related to other industries affected by the infectious diseases measures that were at an earlier stage. So we've expanded the system, which was then developed as a change. There's a reason we're not using the system we had. Having back control — instead of ex ante control, which is now the principle — opens up significantly more labour and financial crime. We have seen that this scheme was difficult to deal with, that our tax base – the income base – was weakened by the fact that tax authorities had to spend a lot of time on back-testing. Even though we have a trust-based society, it turns out that a whole bunch of people didn't prove to be trustworthy and tried to get an illegal suction pipe down into the treasury. That is why we have chosen to build another system, which is based on the principle of post-control. Then we work a lot with the banks, and we still have good loan arrangements to contribute to liquidity until the payments can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e187	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e192	I think the prime minister should bear in mind that the companies do not live by government announcements, they live on the liquidity they have available, and on the money they have with which they can pay their current liabilities. As early as 9 June, the Minister of Finance wrote to the Stortinget that the tax rate has problems dealing with the scheme – or could face challenges in managing the payments. Why, then, was it not a warning lamp that flashed in the reigning apparatus? Why did the government not immediately initiate the preparations for either rigging the tax rate or setting up a new system? This is a classic example of a lack of crisis management and understanding, and it also underlines that the government does not understand the needs of businesses for predictability. Now, what we're experiencing is that viable businesses can go bankrupt. Was there a lack of understanding of the crisis that did not start work on preparing a new payment scheme for businesses as early as June, or did they spend time from June until now to get a payment in place, which could at best come in February?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e201	The main principle of transitioning to ex ante controls instead of having back checks is an important principle in order to prevent work-life crime. It's important to prevent financial crime, and for our tax base to fail. I hope the Labour Party agrees. Then it puts some premise for how such a system might be. Then we've had public samples that have worked with which will be the best ways to rig a plan in the future. Very many of the economic proposals we have received are concerned that we should encourage people to be hired, rather than compensate for just costs. It would have been natural and good arrangements to have had if we had not received the setbacks we now see in terms of the spread of infection. That's why we've been working on that option all along to help those who are being shut down, and that's why we get it going. But it's a principle based on post-control. Then the losses must have happened, and then we must actually also use the system that is installed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e208	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e213	It is quite right, as the Prime Minister said, that the most important thing that the many unemployed and long-term unemployed hope for is to get the job back in a short time. The possibility of doing so is one of the reasons why we have a legislation on permitting in Norway, which is intended to ensure that permitting is a good alternative to dismissal in a time of crisis. What we see in Norway now is the danger that the economic downturn will lead to a further increase in the economic inequality, in the inequality of power and wealth. Investments are still being built on the stock exchange, while low-paid workers are paying the price of the crisis. When SV has promoted that business crisis packages should include a demand for no dividends and no redundancies, it is because we receive concerns messages, from the trade union movement, that, for example, there is a lack of awareness of the issue. in hotels is a danger of cancellations now, and then redundancy later, when the crisis is over. Doesn't that government worry? Is it all right with redundancies when you get state support crowns?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e220	The state support crowns and the arrangements made cover fixed, unforeseeable costs. That doesn't mean that a lot of companies have to change. We don't cover all the expenses companies have. In particular, we do not cover all the wage and salary costs that everyone has. There are many of those who have started businesses, who see their life's work crumbling up in front of them today. They cannot make any further progress if they do not also make adjustments to how many employees they have in the future. I think we'll see, we can't cover that up. There will be some of those who have to take down the activity, shut down parts of the business, do other things, contribute to the conversion. This means that several companies are going bankrupt in total, rather than that several companies can maintain parts of their activity, have jobs and employees. Because it's not possible for all companies, with the compensation schemes we have, to have all employees in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e225	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e231	The concern is that we can have a situation where some companies receive state support to keep it going through this crisis, but cancel employees for such as, for example, who have been afraid of the hotel industry, to continue to work with a greater degree of unemployment afterwards. It must then be a political objective for the government to set up support schemes so that they do not. This is about the benefit and enjoyment of the means that come to workers. Let's just get it straight, because in a crisis like this, the permitting code is exactly what will prevent us from permanent redundancies and mass redundancies: does the Prime Minister think that permanent redundancies and major redundancies in companies that receive state support in this situation are quite right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e238	I think that the representative Lysbakken should travel around and talk to many employers and people and see how they fight for their life's work, the businesses they've started, actually survive, and how they see with a heavy heart that the activity they're going to get out of after this situation they're in, maybe will be lower and different, and that they need to have adjustments in their staff to get it into. I think we politicians must be honest and say that we cannot prevent all this. A lot of people have to change. There are large private assets that are now going to be considerably smaller and maybe disappear, because the value of what you're doing is going to disappear because you can't make the transition. Since, the representative Lysbakken, will much too narrow a framework for the support schemes we create from the state, that means that more people lose their jobs. This will mean that more people go into permanent unemployment, because it will mean more companies that don't get over their knees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e243	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e248	Raufoss is among the communities that are severely affected by permitations. TV 2 interviewed Ida Aaboen Sundet, who was licensed from his job at Raufoss, earlier this fall in the next summer. She was shocked, she said, when she heard that she no longer had the right to a holiday supplement for months she had been on leave. For her, it was a matter of losing about NOK 11 000 compared to what she would have received if she had the right to make up holiday supplements for the daily allowance. We know that with the government's new system, only 50,000 of those who have been on leave this year – almost 400,000 people – will qualify for this holiday supplement, i.e. those who have been continuously available for more than 52 weeks, i.e. one year's continuous leave. Those who have not been available for so long will not get that benefit. My question to Solberg is, what does she have to say to Ida Aaboen Sundet and others who think it's unfair that they no longer get the right to a holiday supplement? Those who have been on leave are double-punished when the summer of 2021 comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e257	I think that both Ida and Robin, who were mentioned earlier, and all the others that we now by name can talk about, are going to be most concerned about one thing: it's coming back to work, that they have security for the job, that we're making sure that the companies are doing well in the period ahead, and that we're putting the main effort there. This is a change that happened in 2014. We did it to get a better balance in future income and expenditure for the state of Norway, to make sure that we had the most money to help those who had the most difficulty. Then it was more important to help those who are on daily pay than those who have come back to work, and who have thus come through the difficult time it is to be on leave or not to have a job and to be looking for a job instead. These are the priorities we've been doing. My question back to those who now want to reset this is: Have they thought that this should be a temporary arrangement or a permanent arrangement? Is this a priority ahead of all other priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e266	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e271	These are not getting any more or less work because the government is deducting the unemployed holiday money. It doesn't change their situation. Remember, many of them are people who have lost their jobs or have been outsourced because political decisions have been taken to shut down industries to prevent, of course, the spread of infection. These people pay a high price today. They experience income cuts of 20-30 pst. when they are on leave and are on day-to-day pay. For them, the question is not whether to go to the South in the summer of 2021, but whether you can afford to pay the bills when June 2021 comes. We know that electricity and rent are to be paid, you can afford food and drink, even if it's summer. For them, it's really about getting paid in June. That's what holiday money is for most people. That's the salary they have to live for when June 2021 comes. I do not understand how the government believes it is fair that those who have paid a very high price because they have been outsourced due to political decisions will not have the opportunity to pay their bills when June 2021 arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e278	Those who are licensed today are permissive because we have a pandemic. It's not political decisions that make people permissive. The alternative for very many people would be that we had significantly higher infection rates, significantly higher health challenges, considerably more people quarantined, and very much more. So let's clear the terms. It's not because we're now shutting down the activity that people are permitting. Many of those who have been outsourced — including economic developments — are primarily outsourced because demand and engine in Europe and in other areas are slowing down due to this pandemic. This is particularly true of the Raufoss environment, which is an export-oriented area. As politicians, we must always make some choices, and we have made the choice that we give priority to jobs, to secure jobs for people and to work on them in the future, rather than to come up with new welfare schemes and to transform political decisions taken in 2014. Then we said that the unemployed who go on a day-to-day basis receive a day-to-day allowance when they are unemployed, but they do not earn holiday pay rights on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e285	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e290	These people are permissive because the authorities have shut down industries, of course, to prevent the spread of infection. I think we agree on that. The reason is the pandemic, but it's because of it that you've shut down, which in turn causes people to be outlawed because of less activity in the economy. It is true that the government has been quite clear in the priorities from the start. In the first package they came to the Stortinget, they sent the bill to the employees and gave the companies important incentives, but they gave the most people the bill. It corrected Stortinget in the treatment of the first crisis package. Now they make the same loss again by going in to cut the increase in the daily allowance — it lasts only until March — by refusing to reintroduce the holiday supplement into the daily allowance and by failing to meet important demands for workers in these crisis packages. So the priority is clear, but we disagree with it and think it is completely wrong to believe that more people come to work by refusing the unemployed to earn holiday supplements on their daily allowances. There's no connection. The important thing is that people get security for the summer, and not the insecurity they have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e299	Then the representative must ask his question – no?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e305	It's a little special picture drawn by the representative Moxnes attached to who you're giving money to. Giving money to businesses is giving money to jobs, and that's giving money to people. It's to make sure they have a job to go back to. Things actually are related in this society. We need both workers and employers to ensure growth in the economy and security for families, businesses and the public in the future. To say that when you give money to businesses, you don’t give money to employees – on the contrary! You give money to the employees because you secure the jobs and opportunities, so that they survive in the future. We need to protect that relationship in the Norwegian society for the future – protect the fact that a job requires both an employer and an employee. To make sure the company is there is to secure people's jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e310	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e315	Let me first point out that I heard the Workers' Party expressing fear of the liquidity of Norwegian companies, but it cannot be so very strong all the time the Workers' Party proposes to increase the tax for the same companies by over 7 billion. kr already next year. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. The heart of the Party of Advancement has always beat for the elderly of the country. They are a resource through voluntary work, now in the pandemic, where we have put in place measures to combat loneliness among the elderly. We will have a decent care for the elderly through state funding for more equal treatment of the elderly at home and better provision of food in the country's nursing home. Now we've taken an initiative for a retirement settlement in Stortinget. It's about correcting for many years with injustice. On 6 October, the Prime Minister replied to me in the debate on the throne: ‘There is no doubt that developments have been different from those observed in 2011’, when the pension reform was a fact, and that ‘there is a reason to look at this’. That was the Prime Minister's uplifting tone. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Does it now mean that the Right is set on a settlement in the Storting that can clear up in the tens of thousands of pensioners experience a profound injustice, namely that their purchasing power is systematically weakened as a result of underregulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e324	There is a reason why the government, in cooperation with the parties on the Grand Duchy, has set up a pension commission with representatives of all the major political parties and experts in order to talk about how we ensure that we evaluate the pension reform – whether we have achieved the objectives we should have, whether we have a balance in long-term income and expenditure, whether the effect is good enough, whether there are adjustments. Our starting point is that adjustments and changes should be made in the context of an overall review of the pension scheme. It is because the pension scheme is closely linked and complicated. If we, for example, changes to the under-regulation mechanism, which is one of the proposals in the proposal of the Progress Party to promote it here, it will have an impact on how the split figures are when you are going out as a pensioner. This is very complicated. The relationship between what you do then, and how this turns out in the future, you should therefore have an overview of when you did it. This was the reason why the red-green government proposed a fixed level of underregulation instead of what was actually agreed in the pension agreement, the average between price and wage increases, which you are now proposing in the proposal. The second proposal, to increase the minimum pension: we do that in some budgets. We're increasing the minimum pension. It'll have that meaning, if we're going to go that way, that there's going to be a huge gap between those who are the minimum pensioners now, and those who are the minimum pensioners with the guarantee pension in the new system. If the new system is also going to have the same type of lift up to 60 pst. of the median, many, many fewer could have the possibility of early retirement. That's why these pieces are pretty close together. Therefore, I think that all of us who are concerned that we should have a pension scheme for pensioners today, but also for future generations, should have time to go through these matters thoroughly and look at the context of the pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e333	A pension commission is all right. No one has opposed going through this for the future, but many of those who are pensioners today have an old age, and that means they don't have time to wait for this. I don't think very many pensioners understood what the prime minister just said when she started talking about split numbers and technique, or talking about what other governments did too many, many years ago. I think they're concerned about how the Stortinge will practically solve the situation that we've come into, which can be solved through the framework that applies to the 2011 retirement agreement, but which is perceived as reasonable. That is why I repeat my question to the Prime Minister: Will the Right contribute to a settlement in the United Kingdom that is perceived as more just for the country's pensioners than the situation in which we now stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e340	We have a consensus in a broad majority on the Stortinget about a pension settlement. There were many years of work and many difficult and complicated parts of it. I fully agree that it is difficult to understand all these rules, but we need to know the consequences of decisions we take, not only for the pensioners today, but also what it means for all the young generations who now get a pension scheme that gives them much, much less money than their parents and grandparents get. We also have to think about there being predictability in the pension system, and some of these things can certainly be solved. It's just that, as I say, we need to spend some time going through and see what the impact of changes in the pension system is. This is largely about the predictability of both those entering retirement and those who are pensioners, but also those who are young today. That's why we want to go in and talk about these things, meet for negotiations and discuss, but our starting point is that the Storting must see the whole, and that's why what we put down a pension selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e347	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e352	At least it is good for the Right to come to the negotiating table. But right-wing labour policy spokeswoman Heidi Nordby Lunde recently claimed to NTB that the Progress Party and SV break the generation contract by working to ensure that their pensioners do not reduce their purchasing power. Does the Prime Minister share that view, namely, that this generational contract is being strengthened the more money is being reduced for those who built the country? Is the generational contract really about reducing the purchasing power and living standards of those who built the country to finance measures for other groups in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e357	Depending on how wage developments are in the future, this proposal that is being promoted can give more to pensioners or less to pensioners. There's a risk that if we have a good paycheck in the future, it actually over time will give less to the pensioners, so that should also be taken into account as a situation. With low price increases and high wage developments, it means that the proposal on the table means less money for the pensioners. What happens to the so-called generational contract is uncertain, and it is therefore important to see its context. There is no doubt that the underregulation and the life span were the two elements of the current pension system that would contribute to the fact that it was not just the next generation that paid for us having a disequilibrium pension system. When we change important premises related to it, we need to know what the long-term effects of those things are. It's easy and easy to tell people that they're going to get more money, but if this has the negative consequences it can have, they'll take from their grandchildren. And I know a lot of pensioners who know that their grandchildren get into a harder world than they've been in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e364	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e369	It is an objective in our society that all groups in society should be heard and participate in democracy. Employees negotiate with employers about wages, pensions and other important employment issues, farmers negotiate with the country about the agricultural settlement, but pensioners were deprived of their right to negotiate in 2011 – in the same pension agreement, which the Progress Party also did not support. The party of progress now wants to reintroduce that right. What does the Prime Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e377	I believe that the legal rules adopted by the Storting should not be subject to negotiations and readjustments afterwards. So everything in the pension system is a system adopted by the Storting. It is not paid for the employees of the country. It's not agricultural. It shall be adopted every year. However, the regulatory forms and predictability of the pension system have been adopted in the form of the Stortinge Act. Putting it out for negotiations after the country's legislative assembly has adopted something, sounds a little special to me, I might call it. You can be involved in and discuss what the actual income development is, and many other questions, and have conversations with the pensioners. But it's like this: what are you going to negotiate about? Are decisions to be negotiated by the Stortinget? It does not respond to this draft document at all. The regulatory system is in the form of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e384	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e389	The last time I asked questions, I was advised by the Prime Minister to travel around. It is a bit in conflict with the previous council I received from the Council of State, which was not to travel around. That's why I haven't done it lately, but without going around, I've found that the initiative we've taken on retirement has been very well received – both from the people involved, and from people who think it's good to build some unusual cooperation to break a locked situation in the Stortinget. But then I have also recorded that there are some criticisms from the government parties, which believe that we can postpone doing something about the situation that older people with low pensions – and that is what SV is most concerned about here – now experience, with years of falling income and a minimum pension far below the poverty line. Then I just want to ask the Prime Minister: she said herself before that it was never the intention of the pension reform that the pensioners should lose their purchasing power. Doesn't she still mean that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e396	Yes, I still mean that. And that's why we've also been open to looking at this question, but we see it in the context of how the pension scheme should be designed in the future. I want to say there are two different elements in this. One is what regulation we have of the pensions in the future. It is then that there is a certain underregulation, and I am now recording that both the Progress Party and SV agree for the first time, because this document proposal requires underregulation of the pensions in the future, but they are to be underregulated according to other principles. I'm not saying we're not open to discuss it; I'm just saying it's related to a lot of other things. Then we have to know the consequences of what we're doing. If you choose a fixed amount other than -0.75, you can just count on it in the system. I do not know whether it is crucial in the future that we have that predictability, but it may matter whether you get more or less as a pensioner the proposal that has been promoted. In the future, it may be that what you're proposing now is actually giving less money to the pensioners if economic development is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e405	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e410	Families all over Norway are concerned if a mother or father is going to lose their job — if the family income, in whole or in part, goes away. In Norwegian aviation alone, there are thousands of jobs. Many have already felt that they have been granted a permit, and have been given up. They work as ground staff, or as he I met as a group of rollercars, gathered together at the bakery. It's people working in Ontøe, in SAS, in Norwegian. Many have already experienced being cancelled. In the airline Norwegian alone it is approx. 2 500 people who are now terrified of their job, who are afraid that the important airline in Norway will end up and that they will be left without food. In what Norway we are so happy about, we're 100 percent dependent on aviation if we're going to be able to connect Norway – for people and businesses in our long-term country. After the corona outbreak, the question is: will there be Norwegian jobs in aviation, or will there be foreign jobs in aviation? Should there be Norwegian companies flying and serving the Norwegian grid, or should there be foreign companies flying and serving the Norwegian grid? I clearly believe that it should be Norwegian that it is a great advantage. In a previous debate Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated that the debate on Norwegian or unorthodox is foolish. I don't think the Prime Minister means this. I believe that the Prime Minister also sees that it is an advantage that Norwegian companies are flying in Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is quite open. Does the Prime Minister see it as a goal that SAS, Norwegian and Onøe will also serve the Norwegian people and planes in Norway after the Korona crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e421	From the very beginning, and that was really from the first package we came up with, we've been dealing with the challenges in aviation. The starting point is that we saw that aviation was going to be hit very clearly by travel restrictions, less opportunities to fly, but also that we had airlines that already had challenges in funding at that time, and we can't take it out of this whole discussion. We've always said that we should be involved and work to save businesses that have life's power in them. Our challenge is that some companies already had major challenges at the time. That is why we have worked on how we get to compete in the Norwegian market, a good offer. We buy a lot of air transport services. With the deal we made earlier this week with the Progress Party, the purchase of air navigation services for next year is up to 2 billion. kr. This will help us to have a basic funding with a good domestic offer, with more suppliers. All the companies will have the opportunity to be paid for and to get guarantees at the bottom of the flights they fly in Norway. We are committed to having competition in the future. But then it's a dilemma. That's how much of the tax income from Norwegian teachers, nurses and shopkeepers we're going to spend in companies where the money might end up in international venture funds or Chinese guarantee solutions. These are words that the representative Vedum might think about in his wish to use “Norwegian” every other time in a sentence. It's true that if there's very poor funding in some companies, the challenge is that we just become a transformation of money out of the country, just to that kind of fund, and we also have to take it with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e430	The Prime Minister is absolutely right that I am committed to raising Norwegian jobs and Norwegian companies if we are to develop what Norway we are so happy about. But I can say something about other countries too. The Danish state has provided cash support to SAS to help them have a future. The Swedish state has set up cash payments to SAS to help them have a future. The French state has set up with money. The Hungarian state, the UK state and state by state in Europe have done so, for it has been seen that it is important for their country to have an aviation. The Norwegian State has not done so. Outside of Stortinget, there are now protestors from Norwegian who are acutely afraid of their job. It's serious, you're afraid to be unemployed. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will she, as the head of the government, sit down with the employees of Norwegian, representatives of them, and representatives of the company, and openly discuss whether there are measures that can be taken within a good framework with clear conditions, so that you can save the jobs instead of letting them go over?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e437	In addition to funding a lot of purchases of services and going to fund a lot of purchases of services, we've done $6 billion. available with good loan arrangements enabling all three companies to operate. Of them, Norwegian has used its share. It's possible for SAS to use them, and onions also have an opportunity to do it. So the sum of money we've made available to aviation is up to 13-14 billion. kr related to this crisis. That's a pretty big amount. Then we've been talking and meeting with Norwegian. Both the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Industry have had repeated rounds of this. But back to the question: what respect should we have for not just moving money from Norwegian taxpayers into others, who are now sitting and should be the owners and guarantors to make sure that Norwegian can actually get a restructuring? I think it would be wrong now that we should only be a transfer centre for our taxpayers' money – into those who are now holding both share items and guarantee liability.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e446	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e451	I think the Prime Minister takes it a little bit lightly when she comes to responding to the challenges we see in Norwegian aviation, because there are challenges in SAS, there are challenges in Onions, and there are challenges in Norwegian. So it's a political question what kind of aviation Norway wants to do in the future. If we don't arrest, it's actors like Wizz Air who want to take over the Norwegian market. Workplaces and value creation are moved out of Norway. It will also weaken our preparedness, so that we do not have that aviation competence in our own country. We also see in other parts of the transport industry that there are major, major challenges. Although the Prime Minister has been very reprehensible until now, I am sincerely concerned that she is putting a little bit of prestige aside and dares to meet the employees and trade unions and discuss how to save the jobs. Then again, I have a very open question: can Norwegian employees now expect a little bit of an open hand and a little time from the Prime Minister for a discussion on how to save jobs, and that the Prime Minister meets the employees with an open mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e457	I know the challenge in aviation closely, I have a family that is licensed from the same aviation. To say that we take it lightly, I have to say, no, we have not taken lightly in any jobs. We are committed to ensuring a good offer to the citizens of Norway, and we are also committed to securing jobs. However, we may not have faith that we are securing the jobs by removing the burden on the owner and the guarantee liability of those behind them, who will withdraw the money from the company immediately. That's why we say that based on an overall assessment, we don't believe that that model will actually help us secure these jobs. Then my question is: Is it so that the representative Vedum has planned to cancel 48 bn. kr to the debt of Norwegian? Or it's 20 billion. Is he going to give? Or it's 15 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? What is he really going to give to make sure that you have jobs – when you have a company that is so high in debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e464	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e469	The Prime Minister may not like this discussion currently in progress. As a private individual, the Prime Minister has previously announced that she will not fly with Wizz Air, but there will be a policy that will in practice be able to pave the way for Wizz Air in the Norwegian market after the crisis. Sees the Prime Minister that it means more to those who are added to the airlines what their policy as prime minister is, for example. by introducing an aviation cash support scheme, other than the company with which she is privately authorised to travel on vacation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e476	I am fully aware that what is most important in the future is that we provide a good framework for aviation. The fact that we make sure that we have funding forms that contribute to companies that can give us diversity is important. At the same time, we need to ask ourselves the basic question: What are the most important effects and instruments? We believe that purchasing air services is important. We have set up guarantee schemes and loan schemes to contribute to difficult situations. But I ask again the question that Battle Violence Vedum would not answer: how much has the Central Party intended to pay out, and what obligations do they intend to impose on those who are now the basic owners of the Norwegian debt? That's 48 billion. kr in liabilities of this company. My starting point is that it is those who now have to take responsibility, those who are responsible for the debt and have guaranteed it – and that we should not now send taxpayers' money right into the hands of the venturers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e483	It's all over. The President would also remind the Prime Minister that there are enough representatives to ask questions in the oral questioning procedure. Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e492	The Prime Minister has previously said that she does not want to fly with Wizz Air for reasons of working life and breaches of the Norwegian working life model. I have not heard the Prime Minister say the same about the transport service Uber. Because even in the taxi industry, many people are afraid of their job these days. Last Saturday I drove taxi. He I drove with, had been on duty for 15 hours and had driven in 2 500 kroner. With the corona, the passenger base also disappeared. In the middle of that crisis, Uber returns on Norwegian roads, and the government chooses to give full release in the taxi industry. The reason for this is as stated on the government’s website: “Those who have permission must have the taxi profession as their principal occupation [[...]] Does the Prime Minister really mean that taxi drivers have to work alongside to finance taxi driving? Does the government seriously believe that taxi drivers need additional work to secure a decent salary?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e501	First, I want to say that I think this is a question that's on the side of what's the main question, that was about aviation, and I think the Stortinget has to discuss whether that's how to answer all the possible questions under one heading. Let me say that I want to correct what was said about Wizz Air. What I answered was a question, and I fully support that – that the company that refuses to work contracts and violates Norwegian law on the right to collective agreements, I do not want to fly with it. If Wizz Air just takes care of it, I will also fly with Wizz Air – that is, if they make sure they have tidy working conditions. So the question of the reform on taxis. We believe that we should have a variety of taxi services and that we need to provide more competition, especially in the big cities. That is why we have created a new and better regulation related to it – in order to contribute to competition, in order to help make it possible for more taxis, more opportunities to drive, more offers and more variety and more innovation in these actions. That is the background for the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e510	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions. The President would also point out that it is correct that follow-up questions should follow up the main question in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e517	Jada, President, it's going to be high-flying and aviation. I have to say I react to the Prime Minister's number usage, and I have heard other members of the government also use the term, which is probably in a fact: 13-14 billion. kr. It is manufactured as if it were gifts to the airlines. It's completely wrong. I react to such a number usage. First of all, 6 billion. kr of that loan. There are expensive loans that the government has made available, and there are only three of them that have been used, otherwise. I think over 4 billion. kr are appropriations to Avinor, the state’s own limited liability company, which operates our airports, and that’s good. It's a billion dollars spent on the purchase of scheduled services from the airlines. It has to be a little bit sober with the numbers. The point is, our airlines don't make money. It doesn't go into length. The three airlines we have are struggling. My question is: what political dialogue has there been between the government and Norwegian to find a solution in the very, very difficult situation of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e526	The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Transport has met with Norwegian about the situation they are in, and we have also clarified our position after reviewing the situation of the company. We've also been very clear that we're going to buy more air navigation services, and that we want Norwegian to provide services in that offer, just like they do today, but that we don't have money to deposit equity into the company, nor any other arrangements that they've now requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e531	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e537	The Labour Party responds to the inaction we see from the government. It seems as if the government is holding hands and having nice meetings, but it's not a force, it's not an initiative. The government refused the request from Denmark and Sweden to assist in the difficult situation of SAS. They answered no before the letter was received. Now they stand and argue strongly against assisting Norwegian in the difficult situation. Nobody wants to send money to China or American banks, or whatever it is, but it's possible to sit down with Norwegian and negotiate, agree on a model. It shall be in order to ensure a Norwegian route offer and Norwegian employees under Norwegian pay and working conditions. It is quite possible to find solutions where the government is going into offensive action. See what the other European countries are doing. They offensively enter into dialogue with the airlines to find solutions. Why doesn't the government do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e544	We've had dialogue with Norwegian. We can't see ways to give money directly to Norwegian now that solves the challenge that Norwegian has, and believe that, after an overall assessment, it's going to be the wrong use of taxpayers' money. On the contrary, we are doing exactly what is underlying, and I understand that the representative sees, namely contributing to the purchase of services that Norwegian can provide and get paid for, and that we also guarantee that they can make money on. In this way, we provide these services. So that's absolutely right -- I said, well, we've given 13-14 billion. kr for aviation issues. It also means that we've made sure that we haven't had to shut down small airports, that we've bought more of the route offers around, that we've made sure that the infrastructure works in Norway. We've also done $6 billion. kr for loans, and we have contributed to the longer and longer duration of those loans, so that it can help them to get through a liquidity dispute. Of course, there are differences in the assessment of the risk to the state of including people's tax money. The risk is probably felt by us to be too high because that money is not going to be Norwegian jobs of, but foreign capital return.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e553	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e558	There are 30,000 Norwegian jobs in Norwegian aviation, and I believe it is very important for Norwegian politicians to be concerned about Norwegian companies. That's what really surprises me about the Norwegian Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, that she seems quite unconcerned about the Norwegian jobs in aviation. We believe it is extremely important to ensure jobs, value creation and security for Norwegian families. It's a core task for us as elected representatives, it's a core task for a Norwegian Prime Minister to be concerned if she meets people, for example. in Rome, where there has been high unemployment. Getting the time off is our job to worry about. Then the Prime Minister says that she has had repeated rounds with Norwegian. Is that right? Because when we talk to people who are close to Norwegian, we get the impression that there has been more through consulting companies and others than there has been direct dialogue with representatives of the government and Norwegian to discuss how concrete solutions can be found. That's what we're concerned about in Stortinget, that we're going to ensure the jobs, that the Prime Minister puts the prestige aside, sits down, works and secures the Norwegian jobs, and spends more time with those who actually know the seriousness of their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e565	I don't take with ease any jobs, in aviation or anywhere else, that we might lose. I think implying that is really pretty ugly by the representative. Our challenge when we have gone through this is that we have very little faith that we can secure Norwegian jobs – that it will not be Norwegian, Norwegian, Norwegian we help, but that it is foreign owners, guarantors, who in some way get this money. It's a challenge where we both get unemployment because we can't secure these jobs, and in the next round, Norwegian taxpayers' money has been used to send money out of the country in a project we can't see that with today's structure and today's way of working, it's possible to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e572	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e577	I've met employees in aviation, Norwegian staff on the outside right now, and I've met some of those who work at the airport at Gardermoen, who say that when they wake up in the morning, they really hope that they've dreamed, that the situation isn't like it is now. There were 40 employees, and there tend to be hundreds who work at the airport every day. I know that there is agreement between the government and the Advance Party that the government will come back by January at the latest with regard to aviation. Because it is important to ensure that we have aviation, that we have aviation that is ready to meet the time now after Korona, and of course also under Korona, that we are ready to move on, that we have airlines in Norway that are safe and good and that are going to provide good services in the future. I could imagine challenging the Prime Minister what she's thinking, and how quickly you think you can get a solution that comes back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e584	First of all, we start, we already buy services, and we now see that with lower activity – as we have asked – in the Norwegian community, we buy more services and pay more out on the purchase arrangements. Some airlines did not need support for some months this year because the activity was so high in the Norwegian economy at the time, and the travel business was there, while we now see that there is more consumption of the money we have already spent. So we're going to do that. Then we'll go through and see. But the most important thing now is to say that Norwegian has to work with its owners, its guarantors, to find solutions. It's actually the most important thing. If, at any time in the future, we are to ensure that these jobs exist for the Nordics, they must have a refinancing scheme. We can't be the country that just pays out money without seeing that we get results in jobs. That's why we have said no to the solutions that are now. The ball is with the company, so the company has to go through and see. We come back again, in line with what we agreed earlier this week, when we also see how the development of the company is. But there is a need for this company to do the restructuring that will take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e591	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e596	The news that US intelligence should have used its cooperation with Denmark to spy on Norway and other allies has raised considerable awareness this week. And it's not like this is the first time there's any information about American spying against allies, but if it's right that intelligence cooperation with Denmark is abused in this way, it's of course going to be a very serious matter. Given that these are claims made, I will take all sorts of reservations, but the claims made through the Danish media about dirty games from the US authorities in connection with the Danish fighter aircraft purchase make it natural to investigate whether similar things may have happened in Norway. This may concern important national interests. It is important that Norway is on guard also in relation to this type of intelligence issue. My question is simply: Give the information that has come out through Danish media, what does the government do to get the truth on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e603	It is true that Denmark now has a review. They have a review and a review of what may have happened, based on media information from anonymous sources, which has not been verified, and which we do not know is correct or not. The Danish government has taken this seriously and is now going through that question thoroughly. We have also been in contact on the matter at the office level to be informed and to know if there is information related to Norway that should have been provided in any such cooperation. Our Minister of Defence has an agreement with the Danish Minister of Defence on a conversation about this in order to follow up the question. As of today's date, this is what we know. It is that information has been provided from anonymous sources without having been verified, and the Danes themselves are going through and examining these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e613	I also took that reservation in my question. Of course, we're going to do that. At the same time, we think that when it is clear that the Danish authorities are now taking this seriously and are going into it, it is also natural for the Norwegian authorities to do so, given the seriousness of the claims made. It is good, I think, that the government is making contact with Denmark, but what is at the heart of the matter here is an accusation that it is American intelligence that should have spyed against Norwegian targets through the use of its cooperation with Denmark. Therefore, it would also be natural to make direct contact with the Americans to hear what their view of the claims that have been made is. Will the government do the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e618	First of all, we think it is important to know more from the Danes, who also have a review of what has happened, as a basis for possibly addressing questions to the Americans. It'll depend on the content and what comes out. I think it's a little early to pre-conclusion on these questions. We have chosen to make our main contact with Denmark, which is a close and good friend in a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e623	There will be follow-up questions – Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e628	We then meet with information from the government about what comes out of contact with Denmark, even though I will stand firm at the call that it will also be natural to know what the Americans think about this. But the issue that comes up is not new. For there have been cases of former espionage from allies in Europe, including: Germany has been hit. Can the Prime Minister say something about the government's awareness of this issue, and what kind of strategy does the government have – whether the government has an awareness of the need to protect Norwegian interests also against this kind of intelligence and espionage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e635	Of course, our efforts to protect ourselves from intelligence operations from other countries also include countries that are friendly – that is, all countries – and we are working on it. We have good evidence of who uses this most and most frequently. It also appeared in the open presentations from both the E-service and the PST that these are mainly impact and intelligence operations from Russia, China and Iran, which we have seen and which we have experienced in recent years. We have a high level of consciousness in all of these areas. We have a whole new safety code, which also requires a greater degree of consciousness. We have a cyberspace challenge to make sure that everyone is up in the cyber field in a good enough way to take care of national interests. Some of this is related to it in Denmark, it seems, based on the data available. There's probably our biggest challenge that people don't fully follow basic data security rules around, which helps you to get information more easily, no matter who has to follow what's going on. Then I would like to stress one thing: we are dependent on information obtained from other countries, for our own security. That's why we want to organize the collection of information today. Today we have to pick it up from other countries that are collecting information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e644	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e649	During the next few weeks, the Government shall agree with the Progress Party on the State Budget. The Progress Party can therefore expect double penetration in a government they do not even sit in, because first the Prime Minister has put forward a government budget based on the Granavolden platform, in which the Progress Party has participated and won, and then she will negotiate with the Progress Party once more to give room for even more Advance Party policy. In this year's budget, for example, there is an increase. the government CO 2 tax for climate emissions by 5 pst., and that is good. But then they simultaneously zero out the effect of this for petrol and diesel by lowering the user charge just as much, with the purpose of keeping the price just as low for the driver. After all, this is the Advance Party policy we are looking at from the government, even after the Progress Party has left the government. So it's not going to cost a penny more to pollute on Norwegian roads. The whole point of the environmental tax is to get those who would otherwise have switched to an electric car in three years, to do the next year. Because it doesn't keep up with the electric car benefits alone. It doesn't go fast enough, not just for us who are the most concerned about the future of our kids, but also for the government and their ability to achieve their own goals. After seven years of the Progress Party, it is therefore impossible to distinguish between the Right Party and the Progress Party's anti-gray and anti-environmental charging policies. My question is really whether the Prime Minister can make it clear to us who are wondering: What is the difference between the government's view of environmental taxes on cars and fuels and the view of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e664	Our starting point is Granavolden. What's common to the government is what's in Granavolden. This includes, inter alia: that we will systematically increase the CO 2 tax in the years to come, but we will ensure that the same costs are borne back to those affected by it, and on the driver’s side it is done by reducing the user charge. So that's the government. From the Right's point of view, this would not necessarily be a matter of concern, and this small increase does not have the greatest impact on climate change emissions either. What we are now seeing is that the policy we have pursued has helped us to reduce climate change emissions. For the fourth consecutive year, climate change emissions have fallen. And we're much closer to achieving the Kyoto targets than most would believe in reductions. At the same time, we are able to do this without stopping developments in Norway, because we have until the pandemic had economic growth. We've managed to uncouple those things. Therefore, our starting point – and perhaps most importantly – is that we should stop emissions, but not stop development. Because we believe that policies that stop development are policies that also cannot reduce climate change emissions over time, because it is going to create so much resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e675	What we are now seeing is a huge change in Norwegian society and in Norwegian business related to technology, related to seeing the growth of green in the future. We have managed to get to what we bourgeois politicians, or non-socialist politicians, have said every year, that it is the piece of technology and business that is going to bring this about. And then there are two things that are important: one is that you work well with the stimulus for it. The second is that we have a tax system and an economy that contributes to the fact that companies don't have red numbers, because then they don't have money for the change, and that's where the Greens have a big environmental party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e678	The majority of the population of Norway will have a stronger and stronger climate policy, and I totally disagree that there is a contrast between development and reducing emissions. To present what has been proposed by the government, and the polluter-pays principle, which lies in the Granavolden platform, or the principle that the pump price should be equal, has anything to do with the coronary apathy, is a little sought after, because both I and the Prime Minister do not know how to vote. It doesn't make sense that the Prime Minister, on the one hand, says that it's government policy that the petrol and diesel prices should be exactly the same, and then says that for the Right, it's not that important. Well, then it's the Christian People's Party or the Left it's very important not to get up the gas or diesel price. That's what I'm stuck with. It is therefore impossible to obtain a four-fold increase in the rate of emissions cuts, which we now need in Norway, without using environmental taxes. Then we talk about bans or, for example, bans. passenger allowances on air travel. The question remains: What is the difference between the Advance Party's environmental tax policy and that of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e685	The government is running after the Granavolden. It's based on four games. It's important. There are certainly many things – e.g. It would hardly have been a proposal from the Progress Party to increase the CO2 tax at all. So it's a joint proposal from the government. But to create a divergence between the government, which, after all, is governed by a compromise between four parties, and the Progress Party is not going to be the same as saying what the other parties would necessarily have done. I didn't understand the comment about the coronary apathy, because I haven't said this has anything to do with the coronary apathy. I said that before the coronary pandemic occurred, we saw that we had economic growth even though we were able to bring down emissions in Norway. It has nothing to do with the coronary apandemia.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e692	There will be follow-up questions – Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e698	If the government – whatever the government’s policy is – is not radically able to change its view on environmental taxes, this has no reason to believe that the government will be able to promote measures that get us into port with at least 50 pst. emissions cut by 2030. It is not possible for the Prime Minister to be expected. It's impossible for the scientists to be sure. As mentioned above, the option is much more restrictive, such as a ban or a ban on driving cars or taking aircraft. I would say that looks much less like good right-wing policy, as I've been used to knowing it, than using the market to promote the most environmentally friendly ways to travel. I am very concerned that the Progress Party has received a double vote in the State budget by the fact that the Progress Party has been involved in negotiating the Granavolden platform. The Prime Minister feels obliged to it, but the Progress Party itself does not feel obliged to the same platform and is very clear to the public that they want more tax havens on fossil cars and fuel. What can we expect from concessions to the Progress Party in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e707	We have ongoing negotiations, so it will probably have to wait for the representative to see what we are going to get from both transposition and change. But I want to underline one thing: we have now shown that we are able to bring down emissions in Norway by having dropped four years in a row. When the government entered the government offices in 2013, it was ordered to measure how far away we were from the Kyoto agreement, i.e. our 2020 targets. It showed 8 million tons in difference. Now the gap is almost closed – not completely, but almost closed. There were very few in this room who believed in just a few years back, including the MDG, who have always believed that it was not possible to get the results the government actually delivers on. We have said that we are making a message before Christmas about how we are going to achieve our targets by 2030, and there is, of course, charging policy as one of the elements, so that you get the opportunity to show it. I've got a significantly more optimistic view of our ability and ability to achieve these goals in Norway, precisely because I'm out there meeting all those who are now taking all the signals, all the companies that say green growth is the way to my business, which a few years ago was most concerned about being counter-productive to the changes that are happening, and who now want it and cheer on us when we make tougher demands. That's why we see a completely different momentum in shipping. The members of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association have agreed not to contract a single boat after 2030 which does not have a zero-emission solution. It's a huge drive for what we have to do in the maritime sector, and the government has answered with the entire green maritime program.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e716	In an incubation, the Prime Minister now received an additional 1 minute’s response.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e721	But it was a very good minute!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e726	Can I have another one, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e731	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e736	My question is about the new AW101 SAR Queen rescue helicopters, and whether they should be able to land in the same Norwegian emergency hospitals as the current Sea King helicopters have done. In 2011, the Stortinget adopted a cost framework for the government to implement an adaptation of the landing possibilities of hospitals used by today’s rescue helicopters. Today, we have 21 emergency hospitals landing in the Sea King. The new rescue helicopters are larger, heavier and have more rotor wind. Health companies already said in 2016 that the uncertainty associated with the effect of rotor wind is a risk that now needs to be addressed without undue delay. At the same time, resources must be used to determine the remedial measures that may be applicable in the hospitals concerned, in order to minimise the time required for action. We're now in 2021. The new helicopters shall be phased into 2022. A review carried out by the NRK shows that there are now 15 emergency hospitals where the new rescue helicopters are currently unable to land. I can't ram everyone, but this is about the University Hospital in Tromsø, Harstad, all emergency hospitals in Trøndelag and at Helgeland, Stavanger, Sørlanden hospitals and more. On questions from Stortinget, the Minister of Health answers that the Rikshospitalet and Ullevål hospitals in Health South-East will be upgraded in order to land the new rescue helicopters. I wonder if the Prime Minister can explain: does this mean that the government will not follow the 2011 decision, or does it mean that only the larger regional hospitals will now be able to land the new helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e747	It is clear that we are going to ensure that the new helicopters will be able to land in the same hospitals where Sea King lands today, possibly elsewhere in the vicinity, in agreement with health businesses. Work is currently under way to address both the needs and solutions of landing sites. It's still a little too early to say how many hospitals there might be that need adjustments, but it's a gradual phase-in of the new helicopters, and we're working systematically with each one. There's someone who says we should do this before. Well, as early as 2011, it was clear that we had to do this, that new helicopters could be heavier, have a different impact than those that are today, but before we have helicopters to test – and so we have done that lately – we can't be sure exactly where and in what ways we need to make changes. But our starting point is the same hospitals where Sea King lands today, possibly elsewhere near by agreement with health care companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e758	It is good that the Prime Minister confirms that one of the emergency hospitals that Sea King has been able to land on or by should still be able to do so with the new helicopters. Then I don't entirely agree with the Prime Minister when she says that it's only now that we know this. Some priorities have been made for the acquisition of ships which make it more complicated according to health needs, in relation to, for example: having good searching and rescue capacity off the coast. It is natural to ask, however – for all those who have seen the series ‘113’, that when the situation is acute, counts every second: what will be sufficient preparedness for our emergency medical environments as regards the proximity of these vessels? In Stavanger, for example, you have said the airport at the Sola is good enough. If that's the situation for so many hospitals, we have a significant distance between where rescue helicopters can land and where medical personnel can take in patients. What will be good enough for the government here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e765	First, I would like to stress: yes, there were some significant priorities when this government chose the helicopter. We chose a helicopter with a larger radius and more possibilities to provide better rescue operations – in this country that needs it. This government has systematically worked to make our rescue capacities better. The new helicopters also have priority that they can fly any longer without having to rethink, greater radius to be able to move and much greater accuracy to find people, whether they're in the mountains or they're in the sea. To say it like that, I have rarely heard as much praise as when I was visiting and baptized the new helicopters – praise from the pilots and rescue teams for what they have received. Unlike a smaller and lighter helicopter, which could land on a roof, it would be a little bit harder. But with the country we have, I think it's a priority that has been important to do. These helicopters can land many places in crisis situations, but what they have as a regulated landing site is among the things we're now going to do a job with. We can't now, until you're done with that work, say what's the correct distance, but there will be helicopters that can land, for example. on a motorway if there is a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e772	There will be follow-up questions – Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e778	I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister is honest about the priorities that have been made, and there are many who have boasted of these amazing ships. However, healthcare has been concerned throughout the process, and what is now revealed is a potential major impairment in emergency medical preparedness. If 15 hospitals that today were able to get rescue helicopters into their area no longer get it, there is a significant change in emergency medical preparedness. So I just want to repeat: will this be good enough? And we're not talking about less emergency hospitals here, we're talking about St. Olav's hospital, where I come from, where it wasn't possible for people to walk on the streets when they were testing the country. At the University Hospital in Tromsø, the manager has said that it is not relevant to land this machine with them – it leads to too much stress, it is not safe. So what's good enough? It's important that the head of government clears up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e783	This is a steering group, among others. in the Ministry of Justice and Defence of the acquisition project, which is now working on the principles, etc. for. And that's the big question: Should we choose helicopters that could land on the top, but could not save the ocean? That's the dilemma we've faced. What will be most risky in Norwegian society? One might say that there are dilemmas in the priority, but then one must also choose the side – to the representative – if one believes that these should not have been purchased and that one should not have prioritised having a better rescue capacity out there. So we're working on securing good solutions for near enough landing. But the helicopters are heavier, and that's exactly what was also said by the red-green government in 2011, that you had to calculate that there would be changes, just because new helicopters didn't necessarily land in the same places.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e792	With that, the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e806	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Sandra Borch to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been withdrawn. Question 8, from the representative of Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn. Question 17, from the representative of Himanshu Gulati to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been withdrawn. Question 28, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative Arne Nävra. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, moved and answered in response to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e824	‘A co-owner in Oslo-restaurant Bass asks on Facebook some clear questions to the Minister of Finance, to which this representative would also like to have an answer. He calls for arrangements to keep his employees in work, rather than having to shut down and ask: ‘Why was a group not put together that has looked at one worst case scenario both in terms of the spread of infection and then again, what it means for the part of the business that will suffer the greatest need for the necessary measures to spread the disease?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e829	When Norway was hit abruptly by the coronary apathy in the spring, the government set up an expert group led by Professor Steinar Holden to carry out a socio-economic analysis of the strict measures against infection. The Group was established on 25 March and has since then submitted several reports which have examined the financial measures taken and assessed the economic cost of the disease protection measures, including a description of the industries concerned. In May, the government put down the selection "Norway against 2025", led by Jon Gunnar Pedersen. The Committee shall discuss possible structural changes due to the crisis and how this affects the Norwegian economy. The mandate states that the sample will look at future scenarios related to infection, infectious disease protection and economic development. The analysis shall be provided in aggregate, as a NOU, with a deadline of the first quarter of 2021, but shorter analysis in the form of notes is also presented in the course of work. Through the crisis, the government has had dialogue with social partners and professional communities in setting up financial measures. This was also the background for the government, among other things. introduced the wage support scheme to take own leave of work in July and August. The scheme has now been renewed for October, November and December. Overall, government and growth have undertaken major economic measures in 2020 and announced new measures in 2021. These measures shall help those parts of the economy which are most severely affected by the pandemic and by the measures to protect infection. It has helped to reduce unemployment from the high levels in the spring, and many companies have taken back workers who were hit in March and April, but unemployment is still too high. Norway is now experiencing a new wave of infection, and there are severe measures to protect infection in several places in the country. I am therefore pleased that the government parties and the Progress Party have now clarified how the compensation scheme will be – it will help many companies. We also follow developments closely and are ready to introduce new measures if necessary. We have always said clearly that we should do what is necessary to make Norway safe through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e848	Nevertheless, the industry is concerned. We see it in social media, we see it in the newspapers. What the industry is afraid of are closures, bankruptcies and even more unemployment. This is the question of whether the government's dialogue with the industry is good enough, and whether the new measures will lead to the avoidance of future bankruptcy by restaurants and outpatients. The industry has also asked for a green, yellow and red button that could trigger a parachute for those groups that are suffering damage. Is there anything the government has been thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e853	The fact that industry, businesses and employees are concerned, I understand very well – so am I. I'm worried about the crisis we're in, it's a health crisis. It affects the economy, it affects jobs. And we have to be prepared that businesses will go bankrupt. So do they in good times. So the question is which tools we're going to use, and it's precisely in the development of these that we've had extensive and close dialogue with LO, with NHO, with Works, with Finance Norway, with small and medium-sized enterprises and directly against many industries and industries. My impression is that the social partners see that the arrangements that have come are good, but of course there are many who have acute problems, because the buffer they had was/are gone. There is a liquidity challenge. There is also a background for dialogue with Finance Norway to see if there can be any possible solutions in that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e860	That's exactly what we're in: what's going to happen to this industry in the future? The Oslo City Council, both in meeting with the government and in the form of letters, has made some suggestions to save the industry. These include: to see this compensation scheme on the basis of lost income, for example: based on last year’s turnover and whether we do not significantly improve the existing compensation scheme. Furthermore, they point out whether it is possible to look at additional reliefs or deferrals of payment. That industry, in particular, is predictability, that we dare to be long-term in our crisis packages. How has the government assessed these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e865	Fortunately, we get a lot of suggestions, and we evaluate them and also discuss with the social partners what can be the most targeted. As an input to the compensation scheme, we have a turnover fall. This means that you cannot get money until that trade is realised. We have arrangements in Norway that are better than they have in the other Nordic countries. I understand that many people feel that this is not enough. That's why we also have a close dialogue with the different industries to make sense of what you can do. Some companies will be able to benefit from the government-guaranteed loans, but it is the banks that have to make assessments, also to what extent they have the security to compensate companies when this compensation model opens. But we're close, we're having good dialogue, and we're also happy to receive new input into what can get us out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e875	‘In Question Time in Stortinget on 11 November, Minister of Justice Monica Mæland said that no courts should be closed and that no one should lose their job in connection with the judicial reform proposed by the government. It follows from constitutional custom that it is only when the government will bring down courts that the proposal must be brought before the Storting. If no courts are to be closed, why does the government submit its proposal to the Stortingen to vote?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e882	Let me repeat what I said: no one is losing the job as a result of the court reform, and the courts are going to be right where they are located today. The preparatory work of the Law of the Court of Justice shows that the Stortinget determines the organisation of the courts as regards the number of bodies and the jurisdictions of the courts. It can be seen from Ot.prp. No 44 for 2000–2001: ‘Practice is also that questions relating to the termination, aggregation and location of courts are brought before the Government’s Grand Duchy, even though the Government has formal competence to make decisions on this matter itself’. Thus, it is clear from the pre-workers that practice is that not only closures but also mergers are presented to the Stortinget. This was also the case when Sogn District Court and Fjordane District Court were merged into Sogn and Fjordane District Court in 2017, where the courts in Sogndal and Fjordde were maintained. This was submitted to Stortinget in the State budget for 2017. The government's proposal for changes to the court structure, with an extension of the jurisdictions and the maintenance of the courts, is based on the model of Sogn and Fjordane districts. The experience from Sogn and Fjordane is positive. The Court of Justice has been given a sound professional environment, with moderate specialisation and opportunities for study leave for judges. The Court of Justice is at the forefront of digitisation and new ways of working, has good control of the case resolution and has given solid applicants in newly appointed judicial offices. The fact that the government is now presenting a proposal for changes in the jurisdictions of the Grand Duchy is therefore both in line with practice and in line with what I and several Justice and Emergency Ministers before me have confirmed to the Grand Duchy in a number of contexts, including: in response to written questions from the representative Klinge. The fact that we have submitted a case to the Stortinget is also an expression that it is the government's view that changes in the jurisdictions and the location of the courts should be submitted to the Stortinget before the changes are formally decided by the King in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e898	There is still cause for confusion – I understand that. I wonder if the Council of State can explain what will in practice be the difference between the proposal of the Court Commission, which went on to impose 38 District Courts, and the government's proposal to impose 37 District Courts, quite apart from the fact that the difference is one District Court less closed in the last case. The right and the state council repeat that courts shall not be removed. Why does the government operate with figures that suggest that 23 out of 60 District Courts should be maintained, unless the remaining 37 District Courts are actually closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e905	I have a really hard time understanding what's hard to understand. The Court of Justice Commission proposed to go from 69 courts to 30, i.e. to 39 courts/courts. We propose to maintain all the courts – all of them to be maintained, but we change the jurisdictions. This can be repeated again and again: it is the geographical area that is changing. It's the fact that you get fewer sorren writers to run more courts – just like Sogn and the Fjordane model, which I think the representative knows very well. This can't be very complicated. In all places where there is a court today, it should still be after the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e912	The problem is that the Council of State continues to use ‘circuit’ and ‘court’ as parallel expressions. I'm going to come back to this, but now I'm going to try to make it easier for the Council of State. I mean, there's a striking use of wrong words when the Council of State and the Right, her own party, constantly claims that courts are still going to be courts afterwards just because it's intended to be active in all of these closed courts. Here's the merger of jurisdictions, and there can be no more than one court in each jurisdiction. Does the Council of State mean that four municipalities that merge into one, and get a new town hall as their main seat, but which creates some activity in the three old town halls, are still four municipalities, just because one has maintained some activity in the three old town halls, or have these municipalities been to only one municipality? Does she understand that I want to compare this with the aggregation of courts and tribunals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e921	I can't believe what the problem is. We're going to have fewer legal circles. I don't mix legal circles and courts. Judicial circles are the geographical area in which a sorenographer heads. How many courts — that is, courts — that are within a jurisdiction will vary. Today, there is mainly one court in one jurisdiction. We want to change that. Is it so terribly hard to imagine that just as you get two courts in Sogn and Fjordane, led by one, you do it more places in the country? It is Sogn and Fjordane's model that has been proposed everywhere. The term ‘temporary retention’ must bear the representative’s own account. We're very clear that where you have a court today, we're going to have it in the future as well. No one has to be moved. We'll get fewer sorren writers. That is what this reform is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e937	The question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e945	‘Waldre’s jurisdiction does not want to be closed and has written in the hearing reply: ‘That there should be obvious differences in quality between large and small courts, we do not believe that there is any professional evidence to claim’. Nord-Gudbrandsdal and Sør-Gudbrandsdal District Courts write as follows: ‘The courts depend on trust and good reputation and it is best created by closeness to users.’ What basis does the Council of State have for claiming that smaller courts are of less quality than higher quality and that confidence is improved with fewer courts and less proximity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e952	I am very pleased that the representative draws up the hearing response from the Valdres District Court, for let me quote from the hearing: ‘Walde’s district court is a small court and, with 3.5 years of work, we are vulnerable to disease, have a limited opportunity to build up a professional environment and have moderate specialisation. In the context of a move towards more time-consuming and complex cases, reduced budgets and increased demands for digitisation and security, we also see the need for a judicial structure that provides an even more flexible use of judicial and procedural resources than today. [[...]] Valdre's district court is pleased that the department is going in order for us to pass as a courthouse. We believe that the Ministry has found a good balance to ensure important local competence jobs in the districts, while improving the ability of the Court to meet the increased demands made to us.’ This is my point. I do not believe that small courts are worse than large courts, but they do not have the same opportunity to drive systematic development of competence. Although the case is decided by the individual judge, it is important to have a strong professional environment around the individual courts, which can provide input into relevant legal sources and discuss general issues. The college should also be large enough to allow judges to acquire new knowledge through training and further training. It requires greater professional environments than that, for example: Valdre's District Court has today. Valdre's jurisdiction is, moreover, one of 40 district courts — of a total of 60 — which have written letters to the Judicial Committee and expressed their support for the government's proposal. In the end, I want to make it clear that I fully agree that proximity creates trust. Therefore, the government has proposed that all courts be maintained, so that the proximity of users becomes exactly the same as today – not as a temporary solution, but as a permanent solution until the Storting had to think otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e968	We can certainly beat each other with quotations from the hearings, and I also think that Valdre's right of object has a very important point, namely that there should be broad political agreement on the proposals we finally land on, so that this is over time. It's been almost 20 years since the last time there were rounds of questions about decommissioning. The National Audit Office has also made assessments, and they found that there were both small and large courts that had too long proceedings. Valdre's jurisdiction was among those with the best efficiency, but it has not spared that court from being seised as an independent court. The impact on employees is still an open question, as far as she is concerned. The petitions in both the North Gudbrandsdal, the South Gudbrandsdal and the Valdres point out that minimum personnel at the courts need to serve people in a good way locally. Does not the Council recognise the notions of minimum human resources for local legal certainty and quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e977	I don't want to beat each other in half with words, but I always feel that especially the Center Party is trying to do an actual presentation of something that is not a fact in the matter. It's problematic. When we say that wherever there are courts today, it's still going to be, you don't relate to it. You keep saying that it's really just what we're saying, but it doesn't mean. That's what we say, and that's what we mean. In the case of minimum crew, we've been completely open to discuss it. It was also part of the hearing. But some of the hearings suggested that the word ‘minimum crew’ can very often be interpreted as a maximum crew, and we do not want that. We have large courts with queues, we have small courts with queues, but we have many small courts that also do not exploit their capacity, which will be able to deal with several cases. It's very good, and it can contribute to increased staffing. But we've been completely open to this. You're going to have as many judges as you do today. You have to have case handlers, and should the district courts be equivalent, as we have said, you also have administrative resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e984	I believe I have understood that the Court Act points to the fact that there is one court per court. In the hearings that we're making for the discussion, it's pointed out that minimum staffing had been an important point for better use, too. On this point, sharing cases or having flexibility in the capacity of different courts: there is an important point in creating confidence in the functioning of the courts, that the conduct of cases does not have, for example: technical challenges, that there is no sharing of issues due to technical barriers, or being measured by efficiency and therefore do not want to share issues. Valdre's district court says in the hearing reply: ‘We rely on all courts to be equipped with the necessary digital equipment and otherwise to be made as functional as possible. It will lead to a reduction in legal certainty for the plaintiff if we get a and b courts’. Has the Council of State ensured that all courts of the country have had equal opportunities for quality and good solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e994	It is true that this government has had a historic appeal before the courts regarding digitisation. We will also have that next year, in addition to having a historic promise – this is the word of the Court of Justice, not mine – on the staff of the courts. There's been a huge development, but we still need to invest. We still need to prioritise, and we're going to do that. I just have to repeat: the only thing that really changes – to the extent that you want to discuss the reality – is that there are fewer sorren writers, fewer leaders. There'll be more judges. No filthwriter loses his job. They become full-time judges rather than sour writers. That's the only change. For everyone who lives and works in a court of law, nothing will change, but we get several courts run by one janitor. That is the only change in reality we propose. It gives more flexibility, and it gives more opportunity to move cases between courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1004	‘The new SAR Queen rescue helicopters have the capacity to provide better preparedness. On 11 November, however, the NRK reported that SAR Queen can only land safely at six of its emergency hospitals. Today, Sea King can land at 21 emergency hospitals. This requires either significant repairs or alternative landing sites for the new rescue helicopters to be made. Will the government ensure that SAR Queen can land safely at the emergency hospitals, and what is the consequence of finding alternative landing sites in many hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1011	The new rescue helicopters, the SAR Queen, are an essential boost for the country’s rescue and air ambulance capacity. They will contribute to faster and better patient transport under virtually all kinds of weather conditions. The new helicopters have a higher weight, and they give more rotor wind than the Sea King helicopters do today. It makes it necessary to adapt landing sites in some Norwegian hospitals. Once phase-in work is completed, preparedness will be significantly improved. The aim of the SAR Queen is to be able to land in all the hospitals where Sea King lands today, possibly elsewhere by agreement with the health care provider. Work is in progress to assess the need for and to implement any adjustments to landing sites. An agreement and a steering group have been established between the Ministry of Justice and Defence for the acquisition project of the new helicopters and Hospital Building HF for the assessment, design and implementation of adaptations. Regional health enterprises and the HF Air ambulance service are part of the management team. It's too early to say how many hospitals there will be a need to make adjustments. It is not planned that the new rescue helicopters will land in the vicinity of all the country’s hospitals. Sea King lands today at most of the country's emergency hospital, but there are only a small number who have landing sites adapted to rescue helicopters. In many cases parking, sports and nearby airports are used. The cost framework adopted by the Storting provides a financial framework for the acquisition of new rescue helicopters, including the adaptation of landing sites. Which hospitals will be adapted to the landing site will be subject to assessments related to the number of landings and take-offs, costs, medical assessments and alternate landing options that need to be weighed against each other. SAR Queen's state-of-the-art equipment allows it to fly directly to the target instead of flying around the coast or following valleys and fjords. The combination of higher speed and the ability to fly in a straight line also means significant time savings. The helicopter has a large cabin that provides room for many people in distress. It gives good working conditions to the crew. This applies not least to the treatment of injuries to the modern and advanced on-board trauma stations. The SAR Queen helicopters will save more lives and provide greater security for people at sea, along the coast and in remote areas all over the country when the phase-in of all rescue helicopters is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1026	When a patient is injured, count every minute and every second. The SAR Queen is an amazing helicopter with greater reach and greater speed. What is now worrying is that it may seem that the government has made its own definition of what it means for the new rescue helicopters to land in hospitals. It sounds to the government that it could mean that they should be able to land at an airport, which could often mean 20 to 30 minutes longer time from a patient landing the rescue helicopter until the patient is in a hospital. Professionals point out that the emergency chain is then broken. For example, in Namsos and in Tromsø, there will be much longer time if they have to land at the airport instead of at the hospital. The question that comes to mind then, which the Prime Minister did not answer earlier today, is what the government seems to be a fairly long way from the landing site to the hospital, or in other words, what is acceptable time from the SAR Queen helicopter landings until the patient is in the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1035	Let me first say that I understand the concern that is aroused in people when they see such a report. It's very sad because we're now discussing what's the world's best helicopters. When they were acquired, when the previous government made that decision, it was known that they were bigger and heavier, and that it would require change. Therefore, eight dedicated hospitals were also planned to be part of the acquisition project. In the other hospitals, health establishments are also responsible for landing conditions, as they have for the rest of the building mass. It is also true today that helicopters do not land in hospitals. They land at the hospitals. The answer to what's good enough for the government is simply that what's good enough for health professionals is good enough for the government. We're making these investments, we're making these changes, because we're going to save more lives. So these are helicopters that can fly faster and further. It'll save more lives, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1046	I fully agree – SAR Queen is the world’s best helicopters, and we are pleased that they are now coming into place. What is the situation, however, is that nine years after the 2011 downturn, which said that there was a need to repair the landing sites, seven years after the government signed the contract for new rescue helicopters, four years after health care providers warned that action had to be taken quickly not to waste time, so we are about to phase in the new rescue helicopters and landing conditions have not yet been clarified. I guess it's really eye-catching, but the most important thing for people is that this is fixed, and that security is ensured. My question to the Minister of Justice and Security is: When will the government inform what measures are needed to enable the new SAR Queen helicopters to land in the 21 emergency hospitals Sea King today? And will the repairs be ready until we've phased in all the helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1053	It is not that you discovered yesterday that it had to be changed. I guess you've been doing that all along, and it's been working on it all along. It might surprise you, but this is a little bit more than a theoretical exercise. It was only two months ago that we got two of the helicopters to the Sun. It's when we can actually do exercises with the real helicopters, that we also know exactly what repairs need to be done. This work goes parallel, and the goal is for the SAR Queen to land in the same way that Sea King does today. There's work going on, and we're going to phase in these new rescue helicopters over the next two years. Then there is also the time aspect of setting up new and improved landing conditions for the eight dedicated sites where it is decided to be part of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1063	‘Professor of Law at the University of Oslo, Hans Petter Graver, says in the newspaper Future in Narvik on 12 November: ‘There will be many more judges under the individual head of the court, and the informal power of a janitor to influence employment in the new and larger district courts should have been further investigated.’ Do the Council of State agree that the centralisation of the district courts means that the formal and informal power of the soren writer to influence employment in the new and larger district courts is strongly strengthened?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1070	It is quite significant that the representative makes no mention of the reform as a centralisation. While the representative is engaged in maintaining the status quo, i.e. a situation where district district district districts are getting less and less involved, the government is committed to implementing changes that facilitate increased judicial activity right in the districts. It is securing jobs, not just jobs, which are good district policies. For the sake of order, let me also mention that Professor Hans Petter Graver in that article indicates that the professional environment has strongly recommended a change in which the intention is to adjust the legal systems for more effective proceedings, which I fully agree with him in. In the view of the government, the proposed number of legal circles continues to ensure a significant spread of power. In the courts, there are now 50 sorenics and less than 500 judges. In land change rights, the density of business managers is even higher. If the representative's party group gets the backing of the representative proposal on local management, the possibility of joint management is also removed, and then we have to have another 10 sore writers in the district courts. 23 sorenists in the district courts are more than enough to ensure the spread of power and good administration of the courts. The individual judge is independent in his judgmental business, and I can't say that I see any fundamental counter-conceptions against the fact that the group of employees that the individual director writes is getting bigger than what is the case in some places today. Oslo District Court has e.g. for a number of years had more than 200 employees, without this having proved to be a problem of power. On the contrary, fewer managers, who can spend more time on management, will be for the benefit of employees. In courts with few employees, it may be difficult for the other judges, for the case handlers and for external actors to address critical issues. A larger organisation will provide better room for discussion about the development of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1083	It is quite significant that the Council of State does not admit that the new district court leaders are gaining increased formal and informal power. I thought that was the whole point -- I thought that was the whole point of the reform. There'll be fewer legal circles, there'll be fewer sorenprinters, and it's the sorenprinter that's the head of the legal system. The power shall be moved to one table in the counties, whether Bergen or Drammen, that is the whole point of the reform. This has not been determined by the Court of Justice. What did the Riksrevision say in its recent report? They did not recommend the solution, they opposed the recommendation of the National Audit Office and the Court of Justice to consider further measures to increase the flexibility of resource use between courts, also in order to deal with procedural variations. What has the government done to follow up what the Riksrevision has recommended?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1092	The very simple answer is that we have promoted a judicial reform, that is the answer to the Riksrevision report. And then – with all due respect – the representative is wrong. We're not going to have one sorenner sitting in one place in the county. You have not read the configuration again. What's in the situation is that we're going to have equal courts. Everyone has to be equal. That means that the Zorenprinter actually has to move rather than the court moves. So rather than going to court, we're going to have leaders moving around in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1097	What is the law is that Section 19 states: «The rights shall have as their leader a filthwriter». And it says that the head of the tribunal may ‘call upon judges who are willing to serve from the courts of the same or another court of law.’ So, according to the law today, one has access to the flexibility needed to get effective treatment. There is a solution that the government does not choose to use. Instead, the government centralizes the District Courts. So the Council of State says that the courts are to be kept permanently. But then it comes to an addition, and then the council says: until the Storting thinks otherwise. No, it's wrong. It's not the Stortinge that's assigned to that authority. It is according to Section 25 of the Administrative Board that provides for one or more courts of law. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1104	Therefore, it is so very good that in the setting of the case that someone has obviously not read, we have stated that this should still be for government and big business to decide, as practice has always been. That is why we have these debates in this Chamber – because practice has been that this is for government and big business to decide. And then there's no centralization. I understand that you have a touching care to keep the number of Zorenprinters. I have a touching concern that legal certainty in this country is increasing. People have a right to, and still have a right to, deal with their cases and have tasks carried out by their local court, and no one should be moved, no one should lose their job. I realize it's annoying, but it's the reform, and it's the answer to the flexibility we need. It's quite right that you can switch cases today, that you have occasion to do it under the law, but the judges say it's not good enough, it's bureaucratic, you don't actually do it. So it's the judges who are closest to making an assessment of, not the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1116	‘One of the arguments for the merging of rights of appeal to major courts is the need for more effective courts. Halden District Court is the country's most effective district court. How does the Council of State defend the proposal to merge Halden with the moss, Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad District Courts in such a context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1123	Let me start by saying that neither in the Week will any courts be closed. Halden, Moss, Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad shall continue to exist, there shall be cases in all the warehouses, judges in all the buildings – just so it is made clear. It is true that an important argument for the merging of rights of appeal to major courts is the desire for more effective courts. This is because some courts have long processing queues and low capacity, while other courts have short processing queues and high capacity. By extending the jurisdictions to several of today's District Courts, we can even out these differences, so that the available capacity can be used where the case is the largest. Major legal circles provide the necessary flexibility to carry out this type of redeployment of matters and resources. The fact that some of these rights are so effective while others are not is an important reason for implementing this reform. For example, if you: have a neighbouring dispute at Varteig, and at that time there is a long queue at the court of Sarpsborg, you and the counterparty may agree that the case should be dealt with in Halden, if the queue is shorter. Equally important as increased efficiency is improved quality: larger units provide better opportunities to provide legal mediation, specialisation and targeted skills enhancement. Greater units also avoid more turbulence or turbulence-like situations, and actors avoid meeting the same persons in court as often as they do today. It gives higher levels of independence, and it better facilitates the inclusion of possible critical issues in the district courts. The government simply wants the same good offer throughout the country. Finally, I mention that Halden is supporting an extension of the legal systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1136	It should be said that before the government adopted joint management at Halden and Fredrikstad district court, the former sorenner at Halden district was clear against a merger, but it is another dish. The Council of State answers basically as expected, saying that efficiency is a major reason for the merger of four district courts, as the Council of State says. This is where I think there's a logical flaw in the story, because as we read the law, it's not possible to have more courts within one jurisdiction. The same was claimed by the Stable Representatives Tage Pettersen and Ingerd Schou in the Eastfold newspapers. But is it the case that the Council of State will take the initiative to amend the law of the court that makes it possible to have more courts in one jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1143	I perceive that the representative is more concerned with the use of words than with the realities. That's what's kind of weird. The fact that there are judges and courts where they are today – I don't know how many times I've said it, and how many times until I say it – doesn't seem to be important. But what you call them, it's important. Putting Bergen on the spot one hour and calling it Hordaland is the second hour, so it's an important debate, not where the judges are. I don't understand. We need judges where they are today. No judge loses his job. We get fewer wrestlers, that's what this reform is all about, and more flexibility. It's not just efficiency, but it's also important. When we see several hundred things waiting in queue some places because you have too much to do, it's about efficiency. But it's also about legal certainty. Legal certainty is important. When we know that we have courts, as I mentioned, as Valdres, with three and a half years' worth of work, you are vulnerable to sickness and to vacation. You don't have the ability to raise your skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1152	We are concerned about the details when we read the proposals from the government. We know that this government has been centralizing on a number of points, and that's why we're concerned with choice of words and details, just like you're in the world of the kiss. It's often important to bring with it what's written in small print. The representatives Pettersen and Schou write in a reader’s letter that: ‘we do not add to any main court of law in each court of law. All courts are assimilated and the sorenner shall have his presence in all the courts of the district.’.» The question is whether the Council of State agrees that there should not be a main court of law in each jurisdiction and whether a fraction of the frequency with which the sorenner should be in the various courts has been determined. And what is the connection between the travel activity of these judges and the sorenics and the effectiveness that the Council of State believes must be achieved with the reform of the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1164	It's very well connected. It is that a leader very often has more physical responsibilities, and that one must actually be present where the court is. It is not that judges should travel around – i.e. You can do that if you have to call some judges. That's how it is today, too. Lawyers' rights are, of course, in large geographical areas. So this is where everyone is going to be equidistant. They're not supposed to have one seat. And the scapegoats will have to travel to their courts and secure their presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1180	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1188	‘This year the National Health Institute has purchased approx. 1.2 million doses of influenza vaccines, distributed to municipalities to give to persons at risk. [[PHI]] The number of people who need a vaccine is 1.9 million. This year, pharmacies have been allowed to offer influenza vaccines, which are in addition to the vaccines that FHI buys. Many outside the risk group want the vaccine this year. Why has FHI not purchased more vaccines this year, and does the government consider buying vaccines from pharmacies or others to ensure that everyone at risk is offered a vaccine?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1195	There has been a record demand for influenza vaccines globally this year, resulting in limited market access. The lack is due to the increased global demand for influenza vaccines due to the coronary apathy and the fear of double infections, coincidental peaks and consequent capacity problems in healthcare. The target groups in the influenza vaccination programme, i.e. those at risk of serious complications of influenza disease and patients’ health professionals, account for about 1.9 million people. Despite the deficiency situation, the Public Health Institute has been able to acquire 1.2 million doses for this season’s influenza vaccination programme. These are considerably more doses compared to previous years, approximately 50 pst. increase from the 14th season. In Norway, a total of 1.5 million doses have been ordered. I am aware that the Institute of Public Health has tried to obtain multiple doses for this season for a long time, but has not yet succeeded. It is important that we secure vaccines for the most vulnerable and for health professionals. Due to the possible limited availability of vaccine this season, all doses both in the programme and in the private market are reserved for the target population for influenza vaccination until 1 December. If all vaccines go to these, we are looking for a vaccination coverage of 75-78 pst., which is the goal of the World Health Organisation. During the previous flu seasons, there were about 40 pst. of the target groups who took the vaccine. For the time being, 640,000 doses of vaccine are recorded in the national vaccination register and vaccination will continue until Christmas. This suggests that the upsurge of this season will be high – something I am very happy about. With increased corona infection in society, increased uptake of the influenza vaccination programme could limit the overall burden of disease and reduce the burden on health and care services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1208	I do not feel that the Council of State answered the question entirely about what the government is doing to secure more vaccines – about them, for example. have entered into an agreement with the pharmacies to purchase the vaccines available there. The pharmacy association itself says to the VG that they have asked to join the state scheme with which the doctors are affiliated, where patients pay only a small proportion of the costs and the rest of the vaccine is refunded by the state. It is unfortunate that people at risk have to pay more for the vaccine because they contacted the doctor too late. Determiners report that they should also have been more clearly informed to prioritise tougher among them in the risk group because it is now simply empty. Does the Council of State think this is a good thing, and is he concerned that the risk group does not even have access to the year’s influenza vaccine?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1213	That's exactly what the government has done about, because – although we are now opening up for the first time to allow pharmacies to set up influenza vaccines to facilitate access – we have regulated that they should also follow the same priorities. And this is the first time that the influenza vaccine is covered by the public. In Norway, in the case of former influenza vaccines, each person has always paid both the vaccine and the vaccination itself. So this is a major improvement in the situation, because if you take the vaccine from your doctor, you pay a 50% discount, which is part of the roof 1 scheme. If pharmacies are to be included in the corresponding system in the future, we may have to decide in future seasons, but this is the first time that pharmacies have had the opportunity to set up influenza vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1218	I am glad that the pharmacies have been given the opportunity to offer influenza vaccines this year, but now a large number of municipalities are setting aside for this year’s influenza vaccine and pneumococcal vaccine – well-tested vaccines that save lives. FHI recommends them to all over 65 years of age and at risk. Pneumococcal therefore causes pneumonia, but also blood poisoning or brain inflammation, and even with antibiotic treatment, the mortality of this disease is 20 pst. The vaccine, on the other hand, saves lives. What will the Council of State do to avoid a situation where we are empty of pneumococcal vaccines and influenza vaccines in the coming years, and to help those who need a vaccine also get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1223	It's doing the same thing we did this year -- buying more doses. Fortunately, we did it this year, so we have 50 pst. doses higher than those usual in the past. It is also natural to think that we should do that next year, because I believe that the start of the vaccination programme will increase in the years to come. We haven't had this problem in previous years, because we've had too many when as small a share as 40 pst. have been vaccinated. This year, when we have coverage of props and people are very aware of this, luckily, the coverage will go up. And there's a reason to think that it won't go back to the old level. Then it's the global situation that's going to decide if we're going to succeed, for the companies that produce the vaccine, want to distribute it fairly between countries. Therefore, it also depends on the total supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1232	‘The aim of the Labour Party is to have a residence and activity throughout the country. Living settlements and communities are part of the lifeblood of Norway, and help us to have diversity and opportunities to make the best use of our common resources. Therefore, it is important for the Workers' Party to have arrangements that make it attractive to live in districts. The Government of the Minister for District and Digitalisation has, among other things, cut the amount of commuting. Why does the Council of State think that cutting commuting is good district policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1239	I agree with the representative of Lauvås that living settlements and communities are important in order to make the best use of both human and natural resources. I'm dedicated to facilitating growth-intensive districts across the country. It's about people's ability to both work and live around the districts. There are several factors that affect people's commuting capabilities. Today, the general income for daily travel to and from work is deducted. The deduction is limited by a base amount and an upper limit. The deduction is generally based on the travel distance of taxpayers. It's true that the deduction is slightly reduced. This is partly due to an increase in the amount of the fine and partly to a reduction in the rate of the general income. Thus, reduced travel allowances are among others: a result of a broad tax settlement on Stortinget, which, as far as I remember, was also supported by the Workers' Party. At the same time, the minimum deduction of general income has been increased. The minimum deduction is intended to cover expenditure relating to the acquisition of income. Furthermore, the population has also received a lower tax. The government's tax cuts are sweeping. In the 2021 tax package, about half of the relief to people with income is less than NOK 700000. The government has invested heavily in reducing travel times and improving accessibility throughout the country. We have almost doubled the travel appropriations since 2013. The expansion of housing and labour market regions — increasing the commuting environment of cities and agglomerations with larger labour markets — is essential for strengthening settlements and positive developments in all parts of the country. I believe that it is important in this case to see a larger picture than only the representative Lauvås draws up. The financial framework of the general employee has improved considerably during this government. The government’s commitment to transport also improves people’s access to rural labour markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1254	I'm almost to be commended by the Council of State. It's one of the longest excuses I've heard, and it's not close to being able to answer a simple question about why they've cut the commuter discount a lot, and why she thinks it's good district policy. It's quite well done. This government has therefore supported Norway's largest and clearest centralisation policy for a very, very long time. The government has coerced municipalities and counties, it has removed the tax collector from the municipalities and has ensured that air routes have been shut down, centralized state jobs to the largest cities and at the top of the entire distanced money that went to develop jobs and activity in the districts. That money has given good results out there. Why has it been so important to deprive the districts of these opportunities to promote new jobs and good rural development?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1263	First, I want to get the representative Lauvås to tell me where he finds quotes, or who it is from the government who has said that cutting the commuting discount is good district policy. He quotes the government from it in his written question. At least I've never said that. Nor do I know that any other government councils have said that it is good district policy. The difference between the Workers' Party and this government is that we see people and families' finances as a whole, and then it's not just about the commuting deduction in isolation. It's about how we reduce the total tax burden on families and people. A normal family of children will pay 14 000 kroner less in taxes in 2021 than they did when the Workers' Party last sat in government. Then it will not only help to reduce the amount of commuting by one hand, if you increase taxes and taxes, as the Labour Party does, with the other hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1270	State councils ask me if cutting the commuter deduction is good district policy. The working party has been against cutting the commuting deduction. It is the government of the state council that has cut the commuting deduction. It is not good district policy to do as the Council of State has done, to go in for and implement cuts in commuting. In addition, I have to ask the Council of State about the municipal settlement last year, which was the worst in 15 years. This year the government is following up with the municipalities in its proposal for 2021, which makes it even worse than last year. It's a minus budget that the government is now giving to the municipalities. Municipalities must cut off the services of their citizens because of the government’s proposal. Why do the district councils think that cutting municipal money is good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1279	In the written question, the representative asked Lauvås: ‘Why does the Council of State think that cutting commuting is good district policy?’ Then I expect him to hear that I have said it somewhere, and that is why I wondered if he could tell me where he had heard it, or if it was a question of whether I believe it. I am concerned that the commuters will get back and forth quickly to work, and that it will be possible to live and work throughout the country. That is why I am very pleased that this government, when we took over a hunger-fed sales budget after the Workers' Party, actually doubled the trade budget. There are many roads to the districts, and that means that we build together the housing and labour market regions efficiently. A large investment in transport, as opposed to what the Workers' Party did, and ensuring that the overall tax and tax burden on families is reduced, as opposed to what the Workers' Party did, is what matters in everyday life. It's the whole thing that matters, not symbolism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1294	‘Nesna is the second oldest higher education institution in North Norway. Unfortunately, the closure of teacher training at Nesna clearly demonstrates the need for a better education policy across the country, as a basis for sustainable local communities and good welfare services close to where people live. The Workers' Party will expand the education system and give priority to decentralised education. But what will the government do to strengthen the role of universities in regional development and practical research?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1301	The government has put competence policy high on the agenda for several years. The competence reform, learning throughout life, represents a heavy commitment to various skills-enhancing measures. Large funds are being earmarked for the development of flexible continuing training provision and for decentralised training provision. I am therefore pleased that we have a powerful State Council for Higher Education, which has so far been clear that decentralised education provision is important. In the state budget for 2021, the government proposes to continue the training commitment by 2.5 billion. to extend the capacity of post-secondary education, post-secondary schools, colleges and universities, as well as to measures of competence for the unemployed and on leavers. The county councils also have an enhanced role in competence policy. Universities and higher education institutions have as part of their societal mission to cooperate with local and regional social and labour life on education and research. That a community reacts when a place of study is laid down, I understand very well. But the universities and the university's study structure are not governed politically. It's the government that decides the structure. When Stortinget dealt with the structural reform in 2015, a large majority emphasised – I believe all parties except the Central Party, so the Workers' Party was also involved – that in the future, as it is today, it must be up to the institutions themselves and their governments to assess what an appropriate study structure implies. A good and attractive study offer can play a major role in moving and accessing skilled labour locally and regionally. The Storting Representative asks what the government can do to strengthen practical research. The education of the UH institutions shall be research-based, so that the training is based on new research. In professional training, practical research contributes to strengthening knowledge, quality and effectiveness in the workplace. The government is concerned with high quality and relevance both in education and research. It is the Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education, Diku, and the Research Council which publishes funds that contribute to labour-related education and practical research. Now the State Council for Higher Education and Research is working with a major report on the relevance of working life, which the government is planning to present in 2021. This Communication will address how universities and colleges are able to meet the needs of the labour market. It requires broader dialogue and more systematic cooperation between universities, colleges and businesses, both in the country, municipality and in private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1320	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I then record that she believes it is up to the study places individually to ensure that the total capacity of professionals in Norway is obtained as necessary. The District Industry Committee underlines that active policies are required to counter centralisation and warn that the removal and shortage of skilled labour is the main challenge for the development of District Norway. The Committee also points to and particularly emphasises the central role of the education system in the choice of place of residence and access to labour in the regions. We know that about 70 pst. stay in the region where they study. If you look at those who were born in the region, it's all 80 pst. I record that the Right Party Programme, for which I understand the District Minister has had a special responsibility in another role, says nothing about strengthening higher education in the districts. Then I almost have to ask: how will the government in practice follow up the sample recommendation for decentralised education in order to prevent relocation and develop competence in the regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1329	I am very pleased with the investigation we have received from the district industry committee. I very much agree with many of their conclusions, not least about competence and decentralised education. It is also important to ensure and develop jobs around the entire district of Norway. That is why I am pleased that the government has put considerable effort into decentralised education. On the specific question from the representative, Mr Sandberg, I would just like to confirm that we are continuing to do so. The government granted 100 million. kr for flexible training services. Fifteen universities and colleges were offered the opportunity to establish more flexible and decentralised services adapted to the life situation of many adults. This will help people to be more able to... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1334	In order to follow it up, the Committee of Competences notes that the shortage of skilled labour is particularly high in the health and care sectors and that the challenges are particularly high in the districts. In September, the National Audit Office’s report on manning problems in health firms found that there was a lack of quality of care for the midwives. Despite the increasing shortage of midwives, we know that the candidate target for midwives is unchanged from 2013 onwards. Recently, I noticed that the NRK reported that the maternity ward in Kristiansund has a shortage of midwives, but manned with temporary workers from so-called red countries, who are exempted from quarantine. My question is: does the Council of State see that lack of health professionals in the districts can also weaken preparedness under the pandemic, and what will she do in the government, if necessary, to counter such a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1343	What I am pleased about is that the increase we have seen in the number of public servants in recent years has come particularly in three sectors: it has come in the justice sector, we have many more policemen, it has come in education and research, and it has come in health and care, with health and care workers, as the Sandberg representative is in. Of course, it's important that we contribute sufficient numbers of midwives in the municipalities. This is why the government is also paying targeted attention to increasing the number of midwives in municipalities. For 2021, we've suggested earmarking 60 million. DKK for grants for the strengthening of the health station, school health and midwifery. We prioritise more midwives, and we also prioritise resources for the municipalities. That is why I am very pleased that the government provided support packages for the municipalities of over 7 billion. kr only for... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1348	Time's up! We must try to stay until we are assigned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1356	‘The Minister for District and Digitalisation has repeatedly expressed an incredible positive opinion on broadband coverage in Norway, but the coverage varies greatly. The densely populated areas have a coverage of 96 pst. The coverage in District Norway is only 56 pst. These areas, with the lowest population density, are at the same time the most expensive areas to be developed. What plan and time horizon does the government have in order to achieve full broadband coverage across the country, in order to avoid a two-part digital coverage in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1363	I thank the representative Langholm Hansen for the question, which I will try to answer. I am very pleased that the representative asks that question, because I am very proud of what Norway has done in terms of broadband and mobile coverage. Broadband, mobile services and the Internet are essential in our daily lives – for business development and jobs and for good public services. Not least we've seen it now, under the pandemic, especially related to the schoolwork and workplaces. Once I've said so positively, it's not for no reason. This is because developments have been very positive, both in the densely populated areas and in the districts. This government has really got speed on the expansion of broadband across the country. Investments in networks and services have increased. It was invested over 12 billion. SEK in networks and services in 2019 – over 4 billion. kr more than in 2013. It's important to be aware that almost 100 pst. basic broadband is offered by households in Norway. It's about using public portals, shopping on the Internet, using online banking, reading online newspapers and streaming videos – that's important. The figures on which the representative is present relate to high-speed broadband. When we took over in 2013, it was just 63 pst. of Norwegian households offering such broadband. By the first half of 2020, this had increased to 89 pst. by households. It's a formidable increase. The coverage has increased even more in scattered areas, and the coverage of fibre broadband in districts has increased from only 11 pst. when the government of Solberg joined, to 55 p.m. by 2020, i.e. a fivefold increase. A large part is built out of the market itself, but in areas where there is no commercial basis, it is the State that contributes. This government has allocated more to broadband development in the districts than the red-green government did. But we're not stopping there. We are continuing broadband development with full power, and I am therefore very pleased that we have just been informed that in the EU's DESI Index for 2020, Norway, together with Denmark, actually has the best network across Europe. I'm very happy about that. In the Digital Agenda for Norway, 2016, the government set the target for all households in the country to offer high-speed broadband in the long term. We are now working on a new big message, which is coming soon, about broadband, mobile and the Internet. There I will promise the representative that this government will set itself new ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1384	There was no way! In 2013 there was a slightly different technology than it is in 2020, so comparing 2013 with 2020 is not really sure if there is any hold on to these numbers. Societal enterprises, an employers’ and stakeholders’ organisation for local and regional social enterprises, have also calculated the amount of funding needed to achieve an almost full broadband deployment. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, 500 million have been allocated. kr for this expansion in the last few years. What the community companies say is that they have been based on the 1998 report entitled ‘Long-length broadband’ and they have come to the conclusion that 650 million have to be allocated. kr annually in order to reach targets in three years, for this is a matter of urgency. What does the Council of State think about these ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1391	I'm glad that we have a model that's market-based and technology-neutral, that works perfectly well, and that helps the market make such big investments as just last year, with 12 billion. kr. This allows us to also spend taxpayers' money on other necessary welfare schemes. What we've done is we've laid down a wire regulation, and we're providing for a broadband extension law. We're now making sure everyone has access to 4G, but we're also in the process of rolling out 5G all over the country. It doesn't mean much to the households, because it's not downloading Netflix faster that's the goal, but it's going to mean enormously to the industry. We're going to go from a four-field highway to an eight-field highway. That's why it's crucial now not only what's happening with mobile and broadband coverage, but what's being rolled out with the new technology shift that we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1398	Motorways, of course, this government is very concerned about – also digitally, I hear now – but I think the council is taking its mouths too full when she says it's the government's honor that it's invested 13 billion. kr in 2019. That's exaggerating. After all, it's only 300 million. kr, around the rain that has come from the government. So this is market-based, and this probably would have been done anyway. Governments pointed to the situation with the coronary apathy, and it is clear that both digital school days, restrictions on physical visits by friends and family, medical consultations and the use of home offices by workers have challenged everyday life. What will the Council of State say to those who do not yet have a usable offer, and which she does not have a plan to roll out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1407	I'd like to tell them that the government's priority is to expand broadband in scattered areas. Nor have I taken credit for what the commercial operators have built up. It's only to serve them in honor that they've spent 12 billion dollars. kr to invest in good networks last year. One important reason is that we have competition. This government has made it possible for us to have three players competing in the market, and it has helped us to be selected to have Europe's best network. My simple answer is that we use the means that the government has granted. In the current year, we have a record high budget of 406 million. kr. We'll give 264 million. kr to next year, which is nevertheless the largest allocation Norway has ever made to broadband. So this government is also rolling out broadband at high speed, not least in the districts, as we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1417	‘People experience under today’s government that service after service is moved out of the community and the municipality, and the distances to fix simple things are getting longer. What will the Council of State do to make services such as legal advice, legal assistance, passports, driving licences and other services more accessible to the inhabitants of the smallest districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1424	The government is concerned that people should be able to live and work all over the country. Access to basic and equivalent services is an important prerequisite for this. For this reason, the government has made great efforts to develop good digital solutions so that everyone has access to fast and efficient public services and solutions. Well-known examples of this are the transmission of data to the hub or tax haven. The government has granted over 700 million. to digitisation measures in 2020 precisely to lay the foundation for the exploitation of digital services by all in all parts of the country. Over 400 million. kr is this year provided in broadband development grants aimed precisely at improving accessibility and speed in districts. Thus, the digitisation of public services facilitates increased availability and quality. At the same time, in some areas there will still be a need or a desire for public services with a physical presence. They must then be organised as well as possible in order to make the most effective use of taxpayers' money. This is why the government has implemented the necessary structural reforms in e.g.: the police, the UH sector, the State Road Administration, the hospitals and the county and local authorities. With the police reform, we ensure that we have robust police districts, operational centres, major trade unions, police forces that can move out when events occur, but also sit behind the screen and follow the new crime scene, which is a major threat to children and young people today. The representative of Christoffersen mentions passport services as an example of a service that should be easily accessible. I fully agree with that. The police are therefore now in the process of acquiring a mobile passport vehicle which will help to make it easier to get passports for those with a long journey to the nearest passport office. In the case of free legal aid, you have equal access to it regardless of where you live in the country. In addition, each municipality has a Conciliation Board. They resolve disputes through mediation and are a good alternative to ensuring legal certainty for individuals. The state road service is an example of another department that has worked a lot to digitise and develop self-service solutions. The aim is to achieve simpler and more accessible services for the user. A number of services in the area of driving licences and vehicles can now be performed from home without having to show up at the traffic station. It's just picking up your cell phone from your pocket, and you can solve it easily. An example of this is the digital sales message of a vehicle. These are simplifications both for the public and for us as users. For those services that still require attendance, such as driving tests and vehicle checks, there shall still be an available offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1441	I thank you for your answer. Now, not everyone in Norway is digital yet. For some I think 'robust' is really a synonym for 'away'. I have also registered that the Council of State, as chairman of the Right Programme Committee, has stated that whoever needs help should be seen and heard and understood, the system should not be put in front of the user, but vice versa. There are many people who experience that there is quite a long way between life and learning, and we have heard earlier today about the closure of district courts, county offices, prison services, land change rights and passport offices, fewer Nav offices – with reduced opening hours – the lifting of government staff guarantees in small offices, users who cannot reach them on the phone, and case handlers are unable to get hold of them. Governments themselves know the mobilisation in Hallingdal against the closure of the Gol tax office in 2017 despite strong local resistance and increase in the number of visits. Does the Council of State think that these are good examples of putting the user in the center of the districts as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1446	It's a very depressing story story The Workers' Party has about the districts. We also see this in the so-called district pledge to the Workers' Party, which should be the largest investment in 50 years. What I think is gratifying is that the Workers' Party has now realized something very clever, namely that it is the broad district policy that is important. The narrow, easy-to-understand and simple district policy on subsidies and development funds is not helping growth. Now it is that not all the things the representative says lead to correctness. We're going to maintain all the courts, and I don't think people stay in the district because there's an office there, when they can still make things easy on the phone. The most important thing is to have good welfare services available. The most important thing is that people can have a job. If it can't, people can't live around the country. Then we have to provide decentralised education, we have to provide access to skills, and we have to make sure that jobs are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1455	Thanks for the answer. Now I guess I asked most about Right Policy. I really know the politics of the Labour Party quite well. One point in our effort in the districts is that the Workers' Party will establish local neighbourhood services centres across the country, making everyday services easier and more accessible to people. Right-wing government is doing the opposite, and an important driver behind the centralisation of the ETA is the so-called ABE reform, flat cut in the hundreds of millions of people, which means that many communities are relatively barred both for state jobs and for services to the population. Employees are under increased pressure, the possibility of finding good individual and local solutions is weakened, and my question is: Will we see more of this centralisation policy, or does the Council of State see that this is wrong in the place of the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1462	The global megatrend, which has remained for 60 years, not least under the Workers' Party in government, when more people moved to the big city, is not something we can fix overnight. It happens all over the world. But we're concerned that people should be able to live and live throughout the country, and the district economics report, now presented, points out that the government's district policy to contribute to the creation of jobs works. People need a job to go to if they're going to live in the district. And they must have good cultural services and good welfare services. That's why yesterday the municipal minister and I launched the start-up shot to develop a strategy for cities and cities. We think having strong cities and towns will also help the surrounding world and the districts, where you have the welfare services, where you have the jobs, and that it is for the best for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1472	‘The largest industry in the number of jobs in Lofoten is the tourism industry. How will the Council of State, which is responsible for regional and regional policy, contribute to ensuring that the crisis of the industry is within because of covid-19, not lead to relocation from the region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1479	Travel life is an important industry, not least in North Norway and Lofoten. It is an important district industry and is the cornerstone of many small communities. It contributes to high value creation and employment across the country. In North Norway it contributes to jobs, it contributes to housing. North Norway has been successful in developing the industry, including: North Lysturism, fishing tourism – I can mention in flang. The Lofoten e.g. has been able to claim in a demanding international competition for the most paid tourists. It's nothing but impressive. But now the industry is hard hit by the pandemic, like the rest of Norwegian society and business. The tourists won't come, things will be quiet. It's bad for every company owner and employee, and it's bad for the communities that frame it. For the government and me as district minister, it has been important to make sure that as many as possible of the tourism businesses – which went so far as the Korona – also survive the crisis, and are ready to welcome guests from all over the world when everyday life is normalized. Travel is one of the industries the government may have spent the most time discussing and finding solutions for, because it is such a diverse industry. We're going to continue building skills in the industry, we're going to continue to focus on the advantages that travel life in Norway has developed over the last few years. Travel life shall continue to create new jobs and lay the foundation for living communities in the districts. That is why we have close dialogue with the tourism industry, so that we can put in place effective measures to help travel businesses, their employees and affected districts through the crisis. I must be allowed to say that I am impressed by the government's Minister of Industry, Iselin Nybø, who has worked around the clock for months after month to do what she can for travel life. Just before summer, we gave 600 million. kr directly to the municipalities and municipal industry funds. The municipalities in the Nordic region had a total of 75 million. SEK for travel life. Travel life needs more action. Therefore, the Stortinget has now decided to increase the regional investment grant framework through Innovation Norway by 80 million. kr. We have provided a guarantee scheme for aviation, exemption from airport charges – for Avinor to provide an adequate flight offer in Norway – and we have provided a compensation scheme to help the range of travel businesses we have. We are also pleased that VAT has been reduced. We are committed to continuing to develop travel life in such a way that we will have a powerful district travel life that is ready to accept guests when the pandemic is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1496	I thank you for your answer. In recent years, the Lofoten has had a better population development than many other districts, because the exciting development of travel has attracted young workers, who have also lived in the region. Now there are many employees in the travel life of Lofoten who are on leave, and companies like Arctic Guide Service, XXLofoten and Hattvika Lodge say they are afraid to lose good competence. People who have been on leave for a long time look around for a new job, and you can be at risk of people moving. The Monday crisis package agreement does not provide wage support, nor does it increase the allocation to carry out development work. We know that what has been made available for development work has been widely applied for and granted. For the Workers' Party, activity is important, and we know that the tourism industry wants to work with sustainability, become more digital, work better with interactions with nature and the local environment and develop new products. Will the district minister commit himself to putting in place policies on how we want travel life to evolve, and use the pandemic to facilitate development work, not passive permitting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1507	I am very committed to it and am therefore pleased that we have put in place a package that is so effective with a wide range of measures. I am also happy when I hear municipalities and travel lives that change themselves. I was recently in Finnmark and visited Hasvik, who used funds from the government to a joint project to raise the travel businesses in South Island. They received business network funds from Innovation Norway and have converted the entire tourism industry, for example. Big Fish Adventure, which in May decided to figure out how to turn the challenges the pandemic gave them, to something positive. They started a new branding process: social media investment aimed at the Norwegian market. The result was a better summer season than ever before. It shows that there's not just government funds that are the solution. It is also about the ability to turn around in the midst of a difficult crisis and think about how to develop to strengthen itself towards the international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1512	It's going to be an important idea for me to say that wage support could have helped these companies that got four good weeks this year, and that are used to having several months of income. A week ago, I asked a question about the situation of the destination companies, because their situation worries me. That's not how the minister got hurt to say, that it doesn't matter to them if the travel life has customers because the destination companies are in the office. They often run tourist information, where they both sell goods and services, and they live among others. by contributions from members, who are now a travel life without income. The Act of the Economic and Social Committee deals with grants to companies with a fall in turnover, imposes tax obligations on them and disqualifies most of the destinations. Destination companies are members' closest advisers when crisis packages change all the time, new support schemes come and go, and not everyone is just as well immigrated in association with Nav and banks. What does the Minister think is the government's main measure to prevent the destination companies from getting away with this pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1523	I think the representative realized that I was trying to figure out the difference between hotel beds and a destination company. But enough about it. I have also explained the funding mechanism that makes it necessary for the business and destination companies to receive support from many of the travel companies as well. Therefore, they depend on the travel life going well, as the representative also points out. As I said, there is a set of measures presented by the government, ranging from changes in the law of leave, reduction in the employer's fee, pay obligation, extension of the daily allowance period for those on leave and cancellations to reduced VAT. That list is very long. And then we have a very diverse business life in Norway. From the government we try to be as much in dialogue as possible and help everyone, but that there is a heavy time for the destinations too, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1533	‘The size has made clear decisions that the accompanying service should be in place in areas where birthers have more than 90 minutes of travel time to the nearest food supply. Nevertheless, the accompanying service fails in large parts of District Norway. In the Orkdal region, six midwives in the accompanying service were recently redirected to the maternity ward at St. Olav’s hospital, resulting in lower safety for natives in Orkland, Hitra, Frøya and Heim. What will the Council of State do to ensure the follow-up service of all those entitled to do so and to ensure the security of local birthers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1540	Ensuring the safety of local births is important for the government and, in this context, the accompanying service is essential for the safety of feeders living around the district of Norway who have a long journey. Regional health businesses have been responsible for the accompanying services for pregnant women since 2010. Health Directorate’s Guide ‘A safe food supply. Quality requirements for maternity care’ assume that there is a need for accompanying services where there is an hour and a half of travel to the place of birth. In 2019, regional health enterprises were entrusted with the task of monitoring the accompanying service. The survey shows that health care businesses have largely been provided with the accompanying service. Somewhere there's been a lack of follow-up service. That's not good enough. The task of identifying the follow-up service has been followed up with a new mission for 2020. There is a clear message from the health authorities to get the follow-up service in place. The main measure to ensure a good follow-up service is to contribute to a sufficient number of midwives in the municipalities. With closer follow-up of pregnant women, we can capture multiple pregnancies with complications and pregnancies where there is a risk of birth complications or that the birth will happen quickly and unexpectedly. The government is therefore focusing on increasing the number of midwives in the municipalities, and for 2021 we have proposed earmarking 60 million. kr of the grant for strengthening the health and education services for midwifery. The government's bet produces results. This is also how we ensure women in the districts with a long journey to the birthplace resulting from midwifery. Health Mid-Norway reports that St. Olav's hospital has been working for several years to improve midwife preparedness and follow-up service in the island of Trendelag, Hitra, Frøya and Heim. There are increasing numbers of births — happily — in the Hitra and Frøya districts, and municipalities are in the process of recruiting a sufficient number of midwives to organise their own watch regime. It'll be good for pregnant women on Hitra and Frøya. Health Mid-Norway hopes that the preparedness and follow-up service for Hitra and Frøya will be in place within a short time. The background to the temporary change, to which the representative Kjerkol refers in his question, was that St. Olav's hospital needed midwives in the maternity ward during this period, and then a challenging situation arose. The follow-up service is important for the safety of pregnant women. Regional health firms are responsible for providing accompanying services, and clear leadership has been given to put this in place. There is something the Minister of Health follows closely up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1553	Hansen – no, Kjerkol my ego!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1558	President, dear child has many names, but I just sound like my own! In Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, more than ten municipalities lack a secure follow-up service. In Finnmark, half of the municipalities lack follow-up service. At St. Olav's hospital, which was also mentioned by the Council of State in his reply, Kjell Salvesen, the clinic manager, says that he has to call the midwives from the districts to maintain what is called a proper health service. Is that how it should be? Mr. Salvesen also said that he wanted the debate to be welcomed. Should it be that city and country stand up against each other? Is it supposed to be so vulnerable in the birth departments of the cities that the clinic managers have to pick up Earth’s midwives from the districts? Is it to facilitate an equivalent service? In fact, I think the district minister should answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1573	If people are to live throughout the country, even in the districts, they must be safe when they are to be born. Therefore, city and country should not be set up against each other, so I am very happy that we have a health minister who has given such clear and clear leadership to get this in place, and expect it to come into place. Because it shouldn't be like this. For the current case of the representative at Health Mid-Norway: for the current period 25 September 2020-25. October 2020, Health Mid-Norway established a 24/7 watch regime on Hitra and Frøya with two local midwives right in those days this was a problem. Individual arrangements were agreed with pregnant women in Heim and Rindal during the same period, and preparedness and follow-up services in the four municipalities were therefore well planned during the period when other midwives were relocated to St. Olav's hospital. This meant that it was possible to ensure the safety of the birthers right at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1580	The reason for this situation was two medical reports at the St. Olavs Hospital. It's so vulnerable. There are 77 municipalities that lack this service. The working party is well aware of the scheme. We introduced it in 2010, but the Solberg government is now no longer able to fulfil the right to a good follow-up service than it was in 2012. Is that good enough? I hear the Council of State say that she is very pleased that the Minister of Health is concerned about this. Yes, how busy has the Minister of Health been when we are now in a much more difficult situation than we were ten years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1587	The government is very concerned about this, because it should be safe to get pregnant and give birth wherever you live in Norway. The main measure is to ensure good follow-up services. It contributes to a sufficient number of midwives in the municipalities, and therefore this government is committed to increasing the number of midwives in the municipalities. The population shall be confident that they will receive assistance whenever they need it, wherever they live. Therefore, we still need to have a decentralised hospital structure that is close to the food supply, and we need a well-developed ambulance service. This government has considerably strengthened the provision of municipal health and care services. The assumptions around our country are different. And then we have to do these problems in a slightly different way. But it is not that the city and the land should be set up against one another, and that it should not be safe to live in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1597	‘The US Marine’s new overall strategy includes, according to the media, a network of mobile American bases on Norwegian soil. These shall be used to ‘close Russian submarines inside the Norwegian Sea’. Is it in Norway's interests to force a nuclear submarine war into the Norwegian Sea, how does the government believe that US military bases on Norwegian soil are not contrary to the basic policy, are the EDI locations referred to in the LTP, thought as part of this new strategy, and are this new strategy part of some of the ongoing negotiations between Norway and the United States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1604	Thank you, Mr Moxnes, for your question. I can reassure him that the government does not consider it in Norway's interest to force a submarine war in the Norwegian Sea. However, Norway, NATO and the United States together need to have a good understanding of the situation in our neighbourhoods. We also need to make a strategy visible with our allies that can address security policy developments and respond to some of the challenges we see there. There's increased military activity, and there's increased strategic signaling in the northern regions. Russia continues to modernise its military forces, exercise and test activities are increasing to an extent, and the complexity of our neighbourhoods is increasing. It is therefore important, as I said, for us and our allies to have a good understanding of the situation – we need to know what is happening. The new strategy of the American Marine Corps is under development, and it is too early to conclude by what the concrete impact of the changes will be on our region. What's clear is the American Marine Corps is cooperating with the Defense. What is equally clear is that cooperation is important for Norwegian security. So far, we have recorded that the rotational exercise and training of the Marine Corps, which started in 2017, is changing. They will continue to practice and train in Norway, but more periodically, to varying extents and more closely related to Norwegian training and practice activities. We base our security policy and NATO membership on deterrence and tranquillity. I must be allowed to thank the representative of Moxnes for his contribution to both deterrence and tranquillity by explaining that the US Marines think strategically and in the future. The bases mentioned are bases to be used in crisis and war. We don't want yours. When we then get help in Parliament to communicate that there are plans for a future and a worst-case scenario, that is good deterrence. When we can at the same time get the calm representative Moxnes to say no, this does not challenge our basic policy – it is firm – and that it is Norwegian authorities who decide what commitment allied nations should have in Norway in terms of both military practice and training, we also get a good dose of reassurance, because then we are told our big neighbour in the east that we have a good grip on this, we are predictable, and we do what we have done since we joined the NATO alliance: we build a good defense with our allies – good deterrence. Then we also get communicated good calm here. I am very pleased that the representative is moving his association in a more NATO-friendly direction with the debate he is going up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1617	Probably the skin was sold there before the bear was shot, to say it like that, as far as the Council of State's opinions on the Red's view of NATO were concerned. It is good that the government does not see it as desirable to force a nuclear submarine war into the Norwegian Sea, but that is what, according to the US Marines, is the concept of “expeditionary advanced bases”. This is the purpose — to be able, from operating areas in Norway, Iceland and Greenland, to shut down Russian submarines inside the Norwegian Sea and keep them out of the North Atlantic. What I'm asking is whether this is something that will be or have been negotiated between the Norwegian and US authorities. If so, would the government say no to such a concept and mark disagreement? Will the Stortinget be informed, or will we be informed when the matter is settled behind closed doors? What can the Council of State say about those questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1624	What we can say is that it is not secret that NATO is building a defence strategy that should be able to stand up to Russia's defence. They'll shut the Atlantic into what's called the GIUK gap. It will disrupt the lines of communication and supply lines across the Atlantic. I must be allowed to point out once again that the bases it is talking about are bases and a strategy that the US Marines put in case of crisis, conflict or war. There is nothing we are negotiating about now. We're not going to have a crisis, a conflict or a war. That is the objective of our deterrence and rescuing policy. There have been questions about this being part of the negotiations we have now with the Americans on a defence agreement. No, it's not. It is also not part of the EDI that we have presented in the long-term plan. This is a strategy that the US Marines are working on to be able to point forward as they now change the concept of their capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1633	What it might then be interesting to hear an answer to is what the government thinks about the strategy, which, according to the media, is just shutting down Russian nuclear submarines inside the Norwegian Sea to prevent them from entering the North Atlantic. We can get an answer to that from the Council of State. It does not hold to say that the base policy is only firm, for these bases shall be equipped with long-range missiles capable of threatening Russian aircraft and ships at a long distance. They shall enable the US Marine Corps to search on their own for Russian submarines with drones, sonar buoys and listening cables. This is, of course, American upgrading in Norwegian territory. When we talk about basic politics being established, I think that when we have the Americans present in Norwegian territory, we become a game of words. Does the Council of State think this is actually suitable to ensure reassurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1642	The representative of Moxnes is picking a little selectively from that strategy, because it is not a strategy that the US Marines are putting forward for the defence of Norway. It's a strategy that the US Marines set up globally. They're going to change their strategy for how they're going to operate around the world. I have to say again that this is a strategy that the US Marines say should apply in the event of a crisis and conflict. Then we are in a different situation, and then we must have close contact with our allies. At the same time, nothing has changed. Basic policy is the rule of the Norwegian political authorities – it is firm. Now that we're changing the concept of our allies, we're not changing that fact. That we're doing things differently with the US Marines now than we've done before comes from the fact that the security situation is different. It comes from Russia's demonstration of its basic defence, where they try to place themselves strategically and prevent communication and supplies across the Atlantic. We have to have a counterpoint to that. That's what we're working on in the NATO Alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1658	The question has been withdrawn. We go to question 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1668	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is directing the issue. The question will be raised by the representative Arne Nävra.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1675	‘Since the 1980s, there has been a ski pass on the road in the Gjevillvass Valley. It has been the most important ski island in Oppdal, an offer to the youngest, the oldest, the disabled and the races. 13 out of 115 landowners have been given access to the ground for breaking, against the will of the others. The municipality has now regulated ski jumps on the road, but the plan is known to be void in the wider sense following the dubious use of the regulation on impact assessments: maintaining a ski jump on the unbroken road requires an impact assessment, considers the court. What does the Council of State think of this as meaning for the ability of municipalities to ensure open-air life through a regulatory plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1682	Norway has large natural and open-air areas that we will take care of and facilitate physical activity and well-being in line with national targets. The government has therefore given guidance to the national expectations of regional and municipal planning that municipalities should use spatial plans to facilitate outdoor life, inter alia. by creating path and loop schedules. Outdoor life is important to all of us, and I agree that there should not be extensive procedural processes to enable municipalities to secure paths and ski paths for the public. Nor is there a normal requirement for specific impact assessment for such organisation. Under the Planning and Building Act, the requirement for specific impact assessment only applies where a regulatory plan can have significant effects on the environment and society. In the question from the representative, reference is made to a confession about a ski run in the municipality of Oppdal. In this case, the municipality's regulatory plan has been used as a basis for expropriating a right to incubate in order to secure a ski run. In the summary, the court considered that sufficient investigations had not been carried out in the regulatory process. In the view of the judge, this was a procedural error which invalidated the regulation plan. This finding is not valid, and it is therefore not correct for me to comment on the matter in detail. Nor can I comment on whether the matter should be appealed against. As the case stands, it is up to the municipality itself to decide whether the judgment should be upheld in the legal system. Regardless of the outcome of the case from the municipality of Oppdal, the feeling will not affect the work of the municipalities in creating spatial plans to ensure the interests of the outdoor life. The issue of the impact assessment for the relevant regulation plan from Oppdal municipality was assessed in accordance with an old regulation. A new regulation on impact assessment was adopted in 2017, and the provision in question has been deleted. In the current regulation, the measures regulated by the Municipality of Oppdal are not subject to specific impact assessment requirements nor to such alternative assessment requirements as have been addressed in the notice in question. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the adoption of spatial plans, and therefore the municipalities that are responsible for ensuring public interest and safe travel and well-being in open air areas. I am confident that the municipalities will take this responsibility. The government is continuously working to ensure good and efficient planning according to the Planning and Building Act, so that the municipalities, among others, shall have the possibility of ensuring open air life through spatial plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1695	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I respect that he cannot comment on the matter in concrete terms. But that's how the KU regulation is given by the government, designed and managed by the Ministry of Local Affairs, and it's the Department and the Council of State that may be the closest to responding to the interpretation of the regulation, at least on a general basis. Does the Council of State think that using a regulatory plan to ensure an existing skier, which has been on an unbroken road for 40 years, is covered by the KU regulation – we can say on a general basis – which is intended initially to be applied in case of major intervention? That is what impact assessments are meant to be. This is an existing situation where the option, a broken road, is at least as extensive as the regulatory plan is intended to ensure. I also see that the Council of State refers to the fact that it is a previous regulation that has been used. Does the Council of State mean that it could have been a good idea to use the new regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1704	The key element of the Impact Assessment Regulation is that plans and measures that can have significant environmental or societal impacts should be assessed in a consistent manner. In some cases, it will be necessary to assess whether the measure has significant consequences for the environment or society. It's very difficult for me to go into, whether or not a thought-pronounced scapula has it. Here I am confident that the municipalities themselves will be able to make an assessment of what will have a significant impact on the environment or on society. But on a general basis, I can say that I'm too skiers. We're going to have a little bit of trouble with that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1709	Yeah, that's right. I think the Council of State is quite right about that. I just hope the council doesn't lubricate away. But there's a point here that the municipality has just been able to secure this ski jump and give the outdoors an opportunity to continue at the same level of activity as before. For some, this may seem a little bit petty, a little ridiculous, maybe a little insignificant, but this case means a lot to Oppdal, to the municipality and to the outdoor life locally. It means very, very much. So is my question to the Council of State, because it shines through the fact that the Council of State may think it was a somewhat strange legal decision – so far: Does the Council of State feel that it is desirable to clarify the interpretation of the law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Supreme Court? Does the State have any means to support the municipality in such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1718	It is not my job to assess whether the municipality should appeal this case further. I have shown how the rules are on a general basis, and I am very pleased that SV is so concerned with the autonomy of the municipalities and the municipal autonomy as the representative here shows. In many other questions, his party has been very skeptical that the municipalities should decide too much for themselves, and on the contrary, that the state should decide more locally. Here we see a completely different attitude. I am very pleased about that, because it is precisely this kind of interest that the municipalities are concerned about being able to secure, for example. outdoor interests and nature and environmental considerations. That possibility should be absolute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1723	It's a shame we don't have another minute, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1728	We go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1736	‘How will the Council of State ensure that the crisis in the maritime industry does not lead to relocation from the many good communities that depend entirely on the local yard and the shipping company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1741	Maritime nutrition is an important industry that contributes to the creation of value added, jobs and housing across the country, and especially along the coast. Shipyards, equipment providers, service providers and shipping companies are key companies in many communities. That's what we want to keep going. Maritime nutrition is now going through difficult times and has been hit hard by the coronary apathy. The government will facilitate living communities and growth throughout the country. We have therefore provided measures to help Norwegian industry in general and Norwegian maritime industry in particular, as a result of the corona situation. It has been granted in the revised budget and in the third crisis package over 1.4 billion. kr for actions aimed at activities in the Norwegian maritime industry and the development of green shipping. This includes 744 million. SEK for a yard package for the period 2020-2024 and 635 million. kr for the development of green shipping. The government wants to help maintain activity and jobs in Norwegian maritime shipyards and suppliers. The yard package will give new assignments to both the yards and the supplier industry in the years to come. At the same time, we want to facilitate Norwegian maritime companies being well equipped for the future, and contribute to a green transition in the maritime industry. Green shipping activities contribute to growth and jobs along the coast. Maritime industries also benefit from the general measures, such as the extended period of leave, loan guarantee schemes and deferred and reduced taxes and charges. Last week, the government presented a compensation scheme for the costs incurred in connection with the entry quarantine for foreign workers. It will be an important measure for large parts of the yard industry, which has had and continues to have high costs of quarantine for its employees. We have provided measures to ensure that businesses and jobs survive, while looking ahead and facilitating a green transition in the industry. The government has been pursuing an active maritime policy for the last few years. The Government has continued an attractive shipping tax scheme, strengthened the Maritime Research and Development Programme, established a scheme under the GIEK for the construction of ships in Norwegian shipyards and put offensively on green shipping. The government is now following the situation in the industry closely, and we are considering measures on an ongoing basis. Our goal is to have a competitive maritime industry and jobs along the coast, even after the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1756	Thanks for the answer. In view of the recent events presented to the Storting, in the compensation scheme, etc., it is difficult to see that there are measures other than the compensation scheme for quarantine for foreign workers directly affecting the maritime sector. As a starting point, there is no doubt that the situation is demanding. In a report Menon presented in August, they assume that up to 60 pst. of Norwegian workers may have lost their job or may have disappeared during 2022. We hear about opportunities for $10 billion to disappear in sales, and maybe up to 20,000 employees to be gone – a pretty dramatic situation. When the Council of State now says that she is following the situation closely and is considering measures on an ongoing basis, my question is: Will the Minister of Industry take the initiative, and if so which?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1765	It's right, as the representative says, that there's a difficult situation. This is because the market out there is currently lacking. That's because the cruise industry and the yards that have had a mission within it, now of course look a little different at things than they did before the pandemic occurred. This is because we have a high offer on the offshore side, probably there is more capacity on the offshore side than what is needed. We saw that when the oil dropper came last, it has not come all the way up again where it was, and will probably not come all the way up where it was. We have, as the representative is involved, recently put forward a system of compensation for the large costs they have. It has been well received on the yards. Then we have to think in the long term, of course we have to consider other measures, but this is what we've put up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1770	Measures taken by the Government in relation to, for example: compensation for non-resident workers and quarantine, only helps those who have activity. Those who have no activity have not received any help from the government – that's what's the problem, if you don't give up now. The offshore is mentioned, where there are too many, and that many of them should never sail again. We have proposed in our alternative budget a recycling of offshore ships, just to get the activity going and to get the activity going. We also say in a verbal proposal that we ask the government to quickly initiate dialogue between the parties in order to find good solutions that can require the conversion of the offshore fleet, and we want to give Enova the task of establishing a plan for the application of the battery package to the largest possible offshore ship by the end of 2022 – i.e. measures to ensure that we also reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the activity on Norwegian base. Does the Council agree that there is an urgent need for action to put an end to the activity of Norwegian shipyards right now — in addition to what has already been proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1779	Part of what is proposed will take some time before it comes into action, precisely because there are big decisions to be made by different shipping companies. Among other things, the ship reconnaissance regime for short sea shipping is 75 million. kr and the loan facility of 600 million. measures to obtain a greener fleet, but which require investment decisions from shipping companies which necessarily take some time. In addition, we have provided public upgrades and new buildings, which are important for the yards here and now. These include: vessel of the Skold class to the Maritime Defense greater than 500 million. kr, a new seagoing vessel to the Marine Research Institute is 110 million. kr, and there are several conversions. The action that the representative mentions on the condensification of offshore vessels is an action that also poses some challenges. These are expensive vessels, and they are often highly loaned. Contemplating them is not just right ahead, there are also some EEA issues that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1789	‘It is set at NOK 25 million for a temporary scheme for travel life on Svalbard, but the scheme is still not in place. Enterprises need rapid access to liquidity to get through the winter season. When does the Council expect Svalbard companies to receive support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1796	The government has, as was said here, proposed to establish a temporary grant scheme for travel on Svalbard. It was adopted by the Stortinget on 9 October. The background to the government’s proposal was that Svalbard has been subject to more stringent infection protection measures than the rest of the country, that travel businesses on Svalbard have a very limited local market, and that Svalbard holdings do not have access to local and regional resources made available to mainland businesses. The establishment of an application-based grant scheme takes time. Throughout the year, the government has been working on bombing the fastest possible way to organise support schemes for business, so that otherwise viable businesses do not go bankrupt due to the corona virus. We have established many large and general rights-based schemes. The feedback we get is that these are schemes that have taken many and contributed to the survival of businesses. Apart from re-establishing a general compensation scheme, recent aid schemes have had narrower target groups and objectives to meet those most affected. These are application-based schemes that take time to design, and they impose requirements on AIFMs other than rights-based schemes. The Government has been concerned that the grant schemes being established should not overlap but complement each other. The grant scheme for travel life on Svalbard is now at the ministerial conference. It shall then proceed to open consultation. This is the ordinary procedure, but we shorten the deadline in all processes to make the funds available as soon as possible. The timetable involves the opening-up of the scheme to applications in December and the availability of the funds to the aided enterprises during the month-end of January/February.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1807	The fact that things take time with different arrangements may be the ‘understatement’ of the times from this government. The subsidy schemes for business generally take too long. You're in deficit all the time. When it comes to Svalbard, it's a very special situation, and you've had time to figure this out. So we're in mid-November, and there's still no clarity on how to manage this money. There have also been several enquiries from Longyearbyen – both from the local government and Visit Svalbard – without having received a response from the government on how to manage this money. So I ask again, what's the reason why you haven't given them an answer? They have sent a letter since August, but have not heard anything. Why have you spent so long responding to a very vulnerable environment on Svalbard?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1814	First, I must say that I do not agree with the representative's description that it is the «understatement» of the times that things take time, because never before in history have so many support schemes been put in place with as much money as we have done since March this year. It's working on bombs in every department to get our business through this crisis. We have to go far back in time to find something that has been similar dramatic for the whole of Norwegian business. As far as Svalbard is concerned, I feel that we have had good dialogue. We've been in contact with Longyearbyen local government about the management of this scheme, and as I'm familiar with it, they've said they're willing to take on that mission. But this is a regulation that we have to have out at the hearing, and that we have to get in place. Once we get it in place, it will also be easier to answer all the questions that are out there and that are related to the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1821	After all, you have sent quite a number of enquiries from Longyearbyen without having received an answer. Then there came a NRK case on Friday that was quite critical to the handling, and on Monday the local government received a letter with some questions about how to manage a scheme. Anyway, it's been a very, very long time. We are in a very special situation – a difficult situation for everyone – but infection protection and compensation must go hand in hand. It is not clear to this government to follow up. When it comes to business, you're always hanging on the back. So I ask again, what dialogue has there actually been in the last few months with both Visit Svalbard and the local government from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1828	There has been dialogue both from my side and from the department, without me going in now and mentioning all the times we have been in contact. But as I said, there has been dialogue with Longyearbyen local government about this scheme in concrete terms. I have been to Svalbard myself after the summer vacation. I understand that it is frustrating to travel on Svalbard, just as it is frustrating to travel in the rest of the country as well. The general arrangements that we have worked to put in place will also apply to the business and travel life of Svalbard. Now we have a separate order that is aimed at Svalbard. It was among the recordings I got when I was up there, because the situation up there is so special. It's a scheme that will be managed by Svalbard, as I said. It's been important to me that it gets local government, because it's those who know the challenges best, and it's those who are best suited to managing the scheme. I'm very happy that it seems to be taking care of the administration. But we have had dialogue and contact with both industry and different actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1839	‘What will the Council of State do to ensure Norwegian airlines through the Coronapandemy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1844	We have had close dialogue with the actors since the closure began in March, and the government has worked hard to put in place large and small measures to remedy the situation. At an early stage in the pandemic, the government introduced a number of measures against aviation, including: the purchase of a minimum offer, several exemptions, including exemptions from airport and passenger charges, and an aviation guarantee scheme of 6 billion. kr. In addition, aviation has benefited from changes in permitting legislation, reduced value added and employers' taxes and deferred taxes. The Government has now proposed adjustments to the aviation guarantee scheme to extend the availability of the scheme by half a year and to extend the duration from two to three years. The agreements with the airlines on a minimum offer have recently been extended, and the government has provided an additional number in the state budget for 2021, based on the needs of the airlines. proposes a budget of 1 billion. NOK for the purchase of a minimum offer and additional compensation for FOT routes. After the agreement with the Progress Party here in Stortinget this week, this amount seems to be even higher. Overall, the country’s extraordinary contribution to aviation in Norway so far in 2020 amounts to 14 billion. kr, an amount which will increase with the proposals and adjustments currently available. The government has wanted to treat the three companies that have flown in Norway before covid-19, i.e. SAS, Norwegian and Onkøe. We have therefore focused on general support schemes. The Norwegian market appears attractive, we expect new players to enter the market, and there is an important need not to introduce anti-competitive measures. All airlines are strongly affected and challenged by the pandemic. The government continues to monitor closely the development of the market and the situation of the airlines, and we will continue to assess the need to adapt existing measures or take new action if, when and whether it is deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1863	I thank you for your answer. The centre party's involvement in this is with all three Norwegian airlines, but it's clear that the remark recently has been most related to Norwegian. It was a theme earlier today when the Prime Minister was in Stortinget – and both answered questions and asked questions – but the Prime Minister said that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Transport had had repeated rounds with Norwegian. Then I wonder: In Norwegian, the boss is Jacob Schram. How many meetings has the Minister of Industry had with Jakob Schram this cottage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1870	It's a very concrete question that I don't dare say the exact number on. We've been in constant contact with Norwegian and with Jacob Schram. It's been in the form of physical meetings, we've had digital meetings, and there's also been a lot of phone calls. The exact number I dare not stand on the speaker's chair here in Stortinget and say, but there has been extensive contact. Norwegian is among the individual companies I have had the most contact with lately. I am busy having good dialogue with aviation, and those who have asked for meetings have got meetings. We've used, as I said in my post, 14 billion. kr on exceptional measures for aviation. But Norwegian is a company that is also in a special situation because of the financial structure, the ownership structure of the company, and I find it hard to understand that the Center Party uncritically later on to want to invest capital into that company.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1877	It would have been an advantage for this government if they listen more and fantasize less, because it's not like the Center Party has ever said that we're going to put money uncritically into Norwegian, but we've said that we want to scare the three Norwegian airlines through the crisis. We note that the Norwegian airlines have not received a single crown in support. One has received the purchase of supplied services, one has received guarantees, one has received some reduced fees, but unlike almost all other industries, one has not received support. Then it's a little weird to get into debt for this kind of thing. My question to the Minister of Industry is whether she shares the objective of all three airlines surviving the coronary apathy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1884	I'm concerned that we're going to have an aviation after the corona pandemic, and I'm concerned that we're going to have competition after the corona pandemic. But I am concerned that one has to assess the individual companies according to the situation they are in. As the representative Pollestad says, the Center Party has been out saying that they want to save Norwegian. This means that there are no incentives for creditors, for owners, to do something to help reduce the debt, to join in and capitalize, because the central party has said that the state is setting up with the oil fund, costing what it will cost. There is no reasonable use of taxpayers' money. We're talking about a company with over 40 billion dollars. kr, nearly 50 br. kr, in debt. I wish Norwegian well, I think Norwegian has served the Norwegian air market well. They have been an important player for us, they have been an important part of the competition situation in Norwegian aviation, and I hope they survive. But my job is to assess the use of taxpayers' money, and in this situation it has not been going into the company with capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1896	‘After the liberalisation of the taxi industry on 1 November, several taxi centres have cut off standby at night. The county councils may grant exclusive rights to drive taxis in some places, but this only applies to individual trips. If the exclusive right is granted to persons other than those who have contracts for organised transport, patient travel or school pillows in the area, then those who are engaged in the contract will not be able to offer individual trips in the same area. What will the government do to ensure a good taxi offer in the districts in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1903	I thank you for the question. I would like to facilitate the best possible taxi offer in the whole country. The counties are the closest to assessing the need for taxi transport within their territory. The county authorities have therefore been given a tool in the new taxi regulation to ensure satisfactory transport. The county may, where necessary, grant one-rights in municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants and less population density than 80 inhabitants per square kilometre. The award of a single right may, where appropriate, be combined with financial compensation for the service. If the market does not offer a satisfactory supply on a commercial basis, the counties may grant one-rights in one or more municipalities. Universities shall be established in a contract and shall be awarded after open processes. The maximum contract length is five years. The operators who have a contract to carry out scouring or patient transportation will be able to compete for the award of a single-law contract in the same way as other actors. The county councils may coordinate within the existing legislation, for example: school pillows and the award of one-off dishes. Furthermore, county councils may cooperate with healthcare professionals on the coordination of one-off rights, schoolwork and patient transport, if appropriate. By opening up to the granting of one-rights, the government has arranged for county municipalities, which are closest to assessing the need for local taxi transport, to ensure a satisfactory taxi offer also in the districts. The drying industry is like many other industries in a demanding situation as a result of the outbreak of covid-19. I have invited the actors in the industry to a meeting this month to right their assessments in the light of both the changes in the rules and the situation as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. Of course, this is an industry where we follow developments in the future very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1918	I thank you for the answer, but I'm afraid this does not last. From the Workers' Party we are now very concerned about what is happening to the taxi industry, and I think I can say that unisont – from all municipalities, from all states – is now concerned about how the new legislation will take effect. Then the county councils can grant exclusive rights in the municipalities, and of course it can be coordinated, but in a state with many municipalities – and it is in all the counties – it will only be in some places the same company that runs school kissing and patient transportation, and that will also be able to enjoy exclusive rights. So it will only be in very, very few cases that it will be the same company. I think it is very unfortunate that the government is pushing through such a reform. The drying industry is at risk of being wiped out in many places. My question to the Minister for Transport is: Does there have more instruments than the exclusive right model?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1925	It is clear that there is a real disagreement about this matter in the Storting. The government chose to postpone the reform for four months due to the covid-19 outbreak. Just what goes on in one-rights is one of the most important tools we have in District Norway. In the situation we've had now, it was, for example. on patient journeys not necessarily coordination in the situation until 1 November. So that's not going to be the situation we had before 1 November, and that one we have after 1 November, is going to be so different. But my point is that here it is possible for the county councils to use this tool if they want to. I understand that it also wants the county councils to do, not least in the district municipalities. So I think it's too early to say anything about the effect of this reform. It will be seen later, and it is precisely the offer and the request that we have made in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1932	Well, there will be a significant change for the companies that currently have patient transportation, the new system will not be able to run single trips in the municipality that has exclusive rights – if that company has not won the exact same assignment. So it's going to be a very big difference. It sounds as if the Minister for Transport does not take this on board. Here in the city there's a lot of dross, almost on every street corner, here there won't be any problem. But how will this be in Hurdal, in Rendalen, in Nesseby – how will we manage to ensure a good taxi offer there in the future? I am amazed that the Christian People's Party is involved in this, and I have a final question to the Minister of Transport: in which parts of District Norway, in which municipalities, in which counties – where has the government been told that it is a good model to liberalize the taxi industry in District Norway like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1937	I think we should be honest and say that this is an industry that has been in a demanding situation even before 1 November. There is a need for a new regulation, and we know that ESA has also pointed to the regulation that we had before 1 November, so we had to do something. We had to, and then we have opted for liberalisation, but also to ensure that our needs can be met by the one-rights model. So the county councils can put in contracts and put in leads. The question from the representative Myrli also goes on with this offer, for example, at night. It can be fully regulated by the county councils in the agreements and contracts they enter into. So it's important for me to signal that we're taking this, of course, seriously. We're following this industry very closely. I'm having dialogue with industry and industry, and I'm going to have to keep going, just because I have now had a significant change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1947	‘District business is increasingly alarming a concern about poor accessibility and more progress and race, and the population is increasingly alarming about their own safety due to the state of the county road network. An estimate shows that the maturity of the county roads increases by 3 billion. kr every year. How does the Council of State think can improve the accessibility of districts and provide business and citizens with greater safety in the form of necessary road safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1954	I thank you for the question. In Norway, we live in a long country with a lot of racetracks, and we don't want people running with their hearts in their throats. Therefore, safe and safe roads are very important. In the case of the county roads, the county councils are the owners who finance and manage the county roads. The county councils themselves prioritise resources for operation, maintenance and investment on the county road network. The responsibility was clarified by the regional reform when the county authorities took over the administration of the county roads from the state road system from 1 January 2020. There are developments in free means, i.e. framework grants and tax receipts, which are decisive for the county councils’ ability to invest in and maintain the county road network. From 2014, a significant part of the growth in free income has been allocated to county municipalities according to the need for upgrading and renewal of county roads. The former ear marked an addition from the Ministry of Transport's budget for pedestrian and pedestrian lanes on the road. These were included in the framework budget for 2020. It is suggested that county councils have increased real freedom of action in order to prioritize and adapt their use in line with local circumstances. The Ministry of Transport has two earmarks of state roads in the State budget. The budget for 2021 has proposed 20 million. kr for repair on county roads for timber transport and 100 mills. kr to county roads that are important for the transport of food. These funds help to improve the development of districts — especially for business. I follow the development of the county roads carefully, and I want to do so, among other things. assess the need for measures related to the county road network in the forthcoming national transport plan for 2022-2033. The representative, Leirtrø, also refers to the slowdown that increases year by year. That is also my understanding. But we don't have good up-to-date numbers of this either. The last holistic review is actually from 2012, and I also think that we need to get an overview of the real needs of all the states associated with this issue. I think a lot of people see that there's a lot of new roads built, a lot of new highways built, and often the contrast to a part of the maintenance run we see on the county roads is very big. Therefore, it is important for me to be clear that this is a problem I want to address in the next national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1967	The numbers – 3 billion. kr every year – are figures from 2017, which the Road Traffic Information Council made Oslo Economics investigate. In the current national transport plan, the figures may be from 2012 onwards and are estimated to be between 70 and 90 billion. kr. After that, the counties have been given the responsibility to cover the tunnel safety regulations. There's a $7 billion missing. DKr, and only in North Norway do they have 16 billion missing. kr for racial protection on the county roads. Westland is even worse. Regionally, geography is challenging, but the risk of accidents is now significantly higher on county roads than on national roads. I hear the council say you can get back to it in connection with the new NTP, but how are we going to get those numbers? It's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1980	I think the numbers that the representative Leirtrø comes with are the same ones that I would use to do this, but the State Road Service did a holistic review in 2012. We know that the county got the roads from 2010, and I think the efforts that many states have made as veigerators are good, but there are very big challenges associated with this area. Getting a real review and seeing how we can get in the right direction on this issue, I think I'm very important. It's probably always going to be a aftermath, both on the national roads, on our railways and on the county roads, but I think it's very important that we can reverse that trend from the fact that the maintenance run gets bigger and bigger, that it gets smaller and smaller. I am constructive about the ideas that the representative of Leirtrø comes up with, and I would like to say for myself that it is important for me to address this challenge in the national transport plan, which comes in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1987	This was mentioned by the Council of State by free means of the counties. The feedback we receive when we are out — including in the work on the National Transport Plan — is that the states report a change in the income system of the regional reform as ‘challenging’. They have not been fully funded for new tasks, many of which are also coming to the next year, and their income framework has been reduced. Although the budget for transport states that funds for county roads are increasing, the reality is quite different. Asphalt is crumbling away, there are deep road tracks, and there are no means of bridge maintenance, precisely because the tunnel safety regulation has a deadline – it doesn't have bridges – and the districts are losing competitiveness if we don't do anything very quickly. Are there any plans to increase the pot to the county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e1992	I feel that this question should be addressed to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, as he did with that responsibility. But it is clear that as Minister of Transport, I know a clear need to address the challenge that the representative of Leirtrø is addressing, because it is real and important. We know that the slowdown has probably increased. To what extent it has increased, I'm not going to come up with very clear leads, but I think there's a need to get a real review of this, and also then to come up with solutions so that we can go in the right direction. I want to say that on all the infrastructure, whether it's pipeline or road, there's always going to be a certain lag, but we'll see that on just the county road network is lagging behind. I also want to say that the county councils, after they became veigerists in 2010, have shown a great commitment to the problem and have done a lot of good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2002	‘The coastline is very important for the districts along the whole coast between Bergen and Kirkenes. Today it sails with a heavily reduced offer, and only between Bodø and Kirkenes, which creates major problems especially for freight on the coast. The majority of the population believe that today's offer is too poor and that it needs to be increased. How will the Council of State ensure that the coastal route expands its coastal supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2009	I thank you for the question because the coast route is important to many communities along the coast. I would very much like to see all eleven ships and daily departures on the coast. This is, as you know, something that the Hurtigruten does not think is economically valid, as much of the income base is gone in today's situation with coronary apathy and travel restrictions. Therefore, given the low demand for the day for coastal routes, the Hurtigruten has only sailed with two boats for a period. On 12 November, the Stortinget decided that the government would have to set aside additional funds, so that up to three additional ships can be deployed between Trondheim and Kirkenes to ensure that calls were made every other day. Of course, the Ministry of Transport will follow up the decision and have called the suppliers on the coastal route to a first meeting of this week on the requirements of the contract, including production in 2021. It will take some time to clarify, as this is a complex situation, for example. as a result of the great loss of income on the coastal route and of Havila Kystrutten's delays in the construction of new ships. It will also be necessary for the Ministry of Transport to have dialogue with ESA to ensure that negotiations with the companies can be concluded within the framework of the procurement and state aid rules. In addition, suppliers need time to mobilise ships before they can be put into service. We are working hard to target new additional agreements, so that we can put in place an increase in production on the coastal route as soon as possible, and my wish is to do so from 1 January 2021. Then we follow up on what lies as the lead from the bulk of the population in this case. We started immediately after the decision was made last Thursday, but, as I say here, the natural thing will be that the change will take place from 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2018	Thank you very much for your answer and not least for clarifying the time perspective in what is, of course, important for many. The working party has been concerned that the coastal route is going all the way between Bergen and Kirkenes, and that is to keep a satisfactory supply of goods along the coast. The fast route has said to us that the cost of going the whole route is about the same as going a reduced distance, as it is now. The costs are largely related to being taken out of circulation and manned. Will the Minister help us get a better offer of goods and passengers throughout the route, from Bergen to Kirkenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2025	As I read the decision from Stortinget, it is clear that up to three additional ships will be deployed between Trondheim and Kirkenes. Today there are two ships going from Bodø to Kirkenes, and that's because we have an agreement for goods that are in debt from Tromsø to Kirkenes. I mean that in the conversations that are now, we actually have two options, and there are up to five ships from Trondheim to Kirkenes or up to five ships from Bergen to Kirkenes. We have a dialogue with the actors, and I don't have a final clarification on the table now. I would also like to listen to reports from Hurtigruten and Havila Kystruten on this issue in the conversations we have now. So even though the decision in Stortinget was «up to 3 extra ships between Trondheim and Kirkenes», we also consider Bergen-Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2030	I am pleased with the last Minister says that he also assesses the entire route, because that is the best offer, and that will be the best offer. But I want to point out the freight forwarders along the coast that are now struggling. Some of them have no calls. That is, there is no good over the berth, and then of course there is no income either. For some of them, it's pretty dramatic, and bankruptcy can be a fact if you don't get done anything. If there is no sailing between Bergen and the Churches within a reasonable time, will the Minister see to it that the freight agents, i.e. those handling the goods on land, receive compensation so that they can survive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2035	We look naturally enough at the health, and I believe the most important signal from me today is that we are now in the process of looking at how to get more calls on the coastal route in dialogue with the actors. Clearly, we are also concerned about what is happening in the ports and the activity that is there. The decision of the Storting will, for some of the ports, mean a significant increase in activity. The reason why we prioritised Bodø – the churches when we just put in two ships was that we sense that the coast route is important for the whole coast, but especially important for North Norway, and especially for Troms and Finnmark – and also because of the agreement we have today that goes on freight. It is the freight section that is important first and foremost when the passenger base is so small, and therefore, when we had to make a priority, we chose to give priority to Troms and Finnmark in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2045	‘A broad alliance of pilots, traffic managers and sailors strongly warns against introducing English-only language requirements into the scope of maritime traffic centres and on the Norwegian coast. In a joint opinion of 9 November, Norsk Losförbund, NTL Kystsverket, Parat Kystsverket, Norsk Sjöoffisersförbund, Norway's Fiskarlag and Fiskboot express that the proposal for a new language requirement of the Kystsverket will significantly impair maritime safety. Will the Council of States share this concern and will the Council of States ensure that the possibility of communicating in Norwegian/Scandian is maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2052	I thank you for this important question. The maritime traffic centres are among our most important maritime safety measures, and good communication on VHF work channels is crucial for the safety of maritime traffic centres in service areas. The proposal to introduce a requirement for the use of English language in the VHF work channels of maritime traffic control centres is based on maritime safety considerations. Clearly and intelligible language is important not only for safe communication between the maritime traffic centre and the individual vessel, it is also important for all vessels in the water, which are also obliged to listen to the VHF communication of the maritime traffic centres, to receive the same information. It is important for maritime safety that everyone has a common picture of the situation. Estimates from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency show that foreign shipowners and navigators sailing in Norwegian waters have increased. In 2019, 73 pst. of registered calls to Norway ship where shipowners had foreign citizenship. The increase in the number of foreign shipowners and navigators updates the need to set language requirements for communication on the working channels of maritime traffic control centres. It is not uncommon for vessels to have crews of both Scandinavian and English-speaking navigators. As long as two languages are permitted, a vessel may communicate in different languages during one and the same voyage. In the case of such sailings, Scandinavian communication may result in not all of the crew on board the vessel being provided with relevant information. It has therefore assessed that the practice of communication in both Scandinavian and English may increase the likelihood that information that is important for maritime safety will be provided in a language that is not understood by all involved. Scandinavian seafarers today have very good English skills. Under both Norwegian and international law, an already required officer in charge of a ship to have sufficient knowledge and understanding to communicate in English. This is a matter that is now being heard, and it is the Coastal Works that have sent it out. On the basis of the proposal sent out by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, there is a security boost. This is now listening. It comes to the government at some point, and we will of course decide on it, but I understand that the proposal has at least been sent out on the phone. We'll listen to those who make recordings, and take a careful and thorough assessment before we land on a final decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2063	It is precisely the consideration of maritime safety that makes it a broad alliance that has now moved out and strongly warned. They represent the pilots, they represent the traffic controllers, and they represent those who sail along the coast. When assessing safety, a person should really take on board the clear message both from those operating the centres and from those who are users. They give a completely different picture from what the Coastal Agency presents, and show on the contrary that it is Norwegian and Scandinavian that are the dominant languages of very many maritime traffic centres today, and that one is able to find the combination between using Norwegian, Scandinavian and English when needed. Why is one not willing to take over the very clear signal coming from both pilots, traffic centres and those sailing along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2070	I would like to listen to what they say with such a broad perspective on maritime transport. I would like to take a meeting about it, listen and actually go into the matter, but I do not want to stand here and say that we have taken a real decision. When our professional body, the Coastal Agency, points out that introducing this English-speaking requirement would be good for maritime safety, it is natural for us to assess it. I'd like to have a dialogue. I also want to say that when we get numbers saying that three-quarters of registered calls are vessels with foreign nationals, we have a need today. There is already a requirement for English language today. On ships on national voyages of more than 500 gross tonnes, there will already be a requirement for English language today, and there is no ship that does not require English language, which will bring it with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2077	This is about how to get a most accurate, accurate and effective communication in an emergency. In many contexts, it is important to provide the information quickly and precisely. The ability to communicate in their own language when all the Norwegian and Scandinavian leaders involved are much better than the prohibition to use Norwegian and Scandinavian and say that one can only use English. For example, if one looks at other countries, a Norwegian captain who is going to have a fairway test in Germany must be able to speak German. In the Netherlands, there is a requirement that a person must master and receive basic safety information in Dutch. Does the Council not see the point that it is important that one along the Norwegian coast ensures that Norwegian languages are taken care of, that those using Norwegian languages have the opportunity to use them in emergency situations, and that one strengthens the requirements for those sailing along the coast to be able to use and master Norwegian languages?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2084	As I say, on all ships over 500 gross tons of English language requirements already today, so there is no new requirement for English coming here. It's actually so that those who already have an English requirement should use it. Three quarters of the vessels have foreign nationals. Yes, I hear that one in Germany can demand it, but we're a nation that has a language that we can't expect all foreign citizens to master or manage. The most important signal I want to give is that it is maritime safety that should decide it. Yes, it has value to be able to speak its own native language, but it also has great value that what is being said is understood on a ship that will be able to handle a real situation. When we go into this matter, I would like to meet with the actors who have now expressed themselves clearly, but my birthright will be that it is maritime safety that is decisive for the decision that we finally fall upon.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2094	‘Norway has invested in one of the world’s most advanced research ships, ‘Dr. Fridtjof Nansen’. Because of the coronary apnea, the UN Food Organisation has canceled everyone until June 2021. [[FAO]] Norad owns the ship, and Norway finances the activity. The vessel must be used in order not to mature. I have previously asked for Dr. Fridtjof Nansen’ may be used for research missions in Norwegian waters. I saw the Council of State as positive, but it is rumored that one has still not managed to reach agreement. When and how will the Council of State find a practical and economically realistic solution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2101	I have asked Norad to look at the options for alternative use of Dr. Peacekeeper Nansen" while it is now grounded under the pandemic. In August, it became clear that the vessel is not able to implement the Nansen programme because of the pandemic. I can also inform the representative Grung that Norad now has an intention to enter into an agreement with the Marine Research Institute to lease the ship for research purposes in Norwegian waters until June 2021. The parties are expected to agree on a lease fairly quickly. The research ship «Dr. Fridtjof Nansen’ is an incredibly important part of Norwegian development policy. Under the Nansen programme, it is carried out as a common research pillar in cooperation with African and Asian countries. As we know very well, given the commitment we have to what has developed and sailed out of Bergen City, it is a research ship that monitors fishing resources, plankton and pollution in the oceans in a way that our cooperating countries are unable to do themselves. It provides the necessary capacity development, there is important research for the research and management environments there, which is a crucial prerequisite for responsible resource management. We therefore need this in order for these countries themselves to be able to contribute to the development needed to combat poverty and achieve the sustainability goals. So normally there is no «Dr. Fridtjof Nansen’ in Norwegian waters. But we're not in a normal situation right now, and that's also the background for us having to go through the contract work that's there. The ship’s activity is based on an agreement between Norad, the Institute for Marine Research and the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO. According to this Agreement, the vessel is placed at the disposal of the FAO from 2017 to 2022. After some good and – let me say – necessary rounds of FAO, they have been positive for the ship to be used for other purposes during that period. Operation of ‘Dr. Peacekeeper Nansen’ is covered by funds from the aid budget and is reported as official development aid. Thus, according to the Financial Regulation of the EEAS and the OECD Development Committee’s Reporting Directive, the use of the vessel must have growth and well-being in developing countries as its primary purpose. An alternative use of the ship within Norwegian borders means that expenditure does not qualify for development assistance. Such use would therefore require another form of financing. The government is committed to making the best possible use of the capacity of our research ships. It is an obvious advantage that the ship is used in Norwegian marine research instead of being idle in port. So the conclusion of the lease with the Marine Research Institute is imminent. There are now only some legal conditions, as well as the rental period and the rental sum, that need to be concluded, and both parties are working to get a good lease in place. In any case, the ship will now have a workshop stay up to l5. January, so rental is at the earliest available from 16 January next year. There is a laying space due to the fresh water tanks on board which makes it difficult to use it in any other way now. I am very pleased that we are approaching an agreement, so that the ship can carry out research in Norwegian waters during the period it cannot be used by the program.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2118	I'm glad that now it looks like we're landing a deal, but we're coming from the same city, and this amazing ship has now been lying to the harbour in the middle of Bergen, inactive, from April. We also need activity for our students in Norwegian waters. We need more knowledge, and I am sure that very much of the knowledge that we can use this research ship to acquire can also contribute to poverty reduction, addressing climate change challenges, which these countries also have, etc. The question is: is it the FAO that has taken so long? We also need legitimacy for our own means of assistance, how they are used. Are those who have really been behind and made it so difficult to be a little more flexible and action-oriented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2127	What is related to the shipyard's maintenance of the freshwater tanks, which means that we can't get it out again before 16 January, is not something we can do with. But to be sure that we follow the legislation adopted by the Stortinget on what the aid money will be used for is incredibly important. That is why we have had to review the agreements and follow up the agreement we actually have with FAO at the time of writing. Now it's going to be all right, and hopefully we're going to have a very fast deal that clears up what the economy in it looks like. But the representative is absolutely right. Getting used to the boat, getting information and using it for research, that it's not at the dock, has been my and everyone's wish since we saw that that's what could be happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2134	Thanks for the answer. Then are the following follow-up questions: if it turns out that the Korona situation makes it still impossible to be in international waters, as the intention is, after June 2021, can we get into dialogue on an extension, so that we can prevent a new round and that we have learned from the regulatory work that has now been carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2139	First of all, I really hope that we've come further in terms of the pandemic, but it's unpredictable, and we don't know what it looks like through 2021. Now we've at least gone up the boundaries with FAO. Hopefully, we'll have an agreement between Norad and the Marine Research Institute quite quickly, and then I think it'll be much easier to make sure that we can have the ship at work as well as possible and as long as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2147	‘It has been more than six months since the coronal pandemic hit Norway, and record numbers of workers became unemployed. Now we are experiencing again an increase in infection affecting the labour market. It is important to make effective use of the time needed to improve skills to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to return to work. How many unemployed persons and persons on leave have now been given access to relevant skills?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2154	I thank the representative for a good and important question. For the government, it has been important to make it easier for the outpatients and the unemployed who need it, to get up-to-date or new skills in the context of the coronary eruption. Funds have been allocated to a number of training measures aimed at increasing the skills of employees, unemployed and on-the-job. I see it as a question of how many lay-offs and unemployed people are being trained either by Nav as a labour market measure or by the choice of day-payers themselves to take training in combination with daily allowances. As mentioned above, the government has been committed to broadening the scope for enhancing competence for both the unemployed and the outsourced quickly and flexibly in the exceptional situation we are currently facing. As of 20 April, therefore, a system was put in place whereby the unemployed and the outlaws themselves can choose to take training without the prior approval of Nav, and without losing the right to a daily allowance. If you participate in self-selected training, this is reported to Nav via a report card that all unemployed and permitted beneficiaries have to fill in. However, this information is not included in Nav's procedural and statistical systems as the notification cards are now processed. Therefore, it has not been possible to obtain information on the number of trainees and the number of trainees actually involved when training is started without Nav’s approval. Then it is important to add that through the Education promise of 2020, more places of study have been set up, more vocational schools have been set up and more professional programmes have been programmed, as well as having a digital career guidance guide that anyone can use, including anonymously, and we have our own measures to enhance the competence of vulnerable industrial clusters. These measures have led to an approximate 55000 additional places to be used for the persons on leave and on leave are available. The State budget for 2021 proposes to extend this temporary arrangement until 1 July 2021. Work is now also under way to develop permanent legislation to combine daily allowances with education. Training may also be provided as labour market measures to unemployed persons and persons with reduced working capacity. The number of trainee action participants has remained relatively stable at 12 000 to 13 000 participants per month in 2020, with the exception of a regular seasonal reduction in the summer months of June, July and August 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2169	It is true, as the Council of State says, that considerable funds have been allocated, and this is facilitated by legislation. The question is whether the systems make the most of those who need it, whether those who have not completed higher education or lack basic skills, are being used effectively so that they are stronger in working life at the end of the crisis. If we don't know who, what and how many, we don't know if the measures are taken. But I'm worried. When I meet businesses and employees, they tell me about a reality where it's up to the individual to find and navigate skills. Without guidance and follow-up, people are left to themselves. Then I would like to ask: what follow-up is there permised and available people get to be able to navigate in the offer of skills measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2178	Let me first say that I share the representative's concern that, in particular, those groups like this. do not have a diploma in place, do not receive the offer. That's why we've both given more money to the county councils to straighten out the possibility of taking this, we've made changes in the loan fund, which allows adults to get extra loans for living alongside basic education, and we're, as I said, working with a permanent code where some of the things we're looking at, is whether it's going to be easier to combine day money with the kind of basic knowledge that it's very important to get in place to get a job. For the follow-up of the persons on leave and on leave, first of all, there is an information to be provided by Nav. I can say that I have met with the parties where some of them have mentioned that it is too difficult to find this information. It's a signal we've given to Nav, that it must be clear and easily accessible. In addition, we have Competence Norway, which is a directorate of the Department of Knowledge that has created this digital career guide, but which also has many other opportunities to easily manage and get an overview of the offers, such as: a custom web page.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2185	However, the question is whether a hard-pressed Nav has time and resources to follow up each one of them, and what needs and opportunities he has for the necessary skills measures. I would also like to draw attention to the BIO funding scheme. In the past, it was the case that, rather than having to permite, training could be used on a company basis. In this way, the need for the company and the employee could be seen together. As the system works now, large industrial companies say it's not a real alternative. The funds are too small. Then I wonder, is it a misguided government policy that we should not be able to use competence measures rather than permitting? Now it is the states that administer the scheme, but the scheme must be followed up, and there must be enough resources to make it a real alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2194	Let me first just answer the first comment, which concerned whether Nav has the capacity to follow up. The paradox of this question is that I don't have a concrete number of how many people have used education, because we've said that Nav doesn't have to map it. Normally you have to apply to be allowed to take education if you go on a day-to-day basis. There we have said that we ignore that requirement, so that anyone can do it, and that has been the purpose, that of making it easier. Nav, of course, should be able to provide information, but it is therefore the competence of Norway as a separate directorate responsible for developing both the policy of competence, the provision of continuing and continuing training, and also for establishing good information channels. They are doing very well today, but they are also working on several new measures. So to the BIO funds. It is a system that is strengthened, and it is quite right that I also get good feedback from the states that it is a popular scheme, but that they want even more money for it. We have also received feedback from industrial clusters, such as: The Kongsberg Group, which has said that this is not enough money. That is why we have set up a separate sectoral programme scheme for exposed industrial clusters, such as the United Kingdom. Kongsberg Gruppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2206	‘The scope for cutting emissions has never been greater. 8 out of 10 will make more climate-friendly choices in everyday life. It gives the authorities high expectations. Negotiations on international rules on emissions reductions in maritime shipping under the auspices of the IMO have been ongoing in the autumn of this year. Norway has led the negotiations. I have received signals that Norway has in closed meetings countered the fact that climate requirements for ships should be in line with the Paris agreement. Can the Council of States ensure that Norway has been a consistent driver of the most ambitious climate policy in the IMO negotiations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2213	Firstly, I believe that there is a strong political consensus that Norway should be a driver of good and ambitious global agreements on greenhouse gas emission reduction and, of course, also applies to the IMO’s climate requirements for international shipping. The driving mandate has been the basis for Norway's work in the IMO for many years and was later laid down in the Government's Green Shipping Action Plan. Green shipping is, of course, an area of activity for the government, and we have seen extensive measures to reduce emissions from shipping nationally. I look forward to presenting to Stortinget our further efforts in the coming climate plan when he gets ready. Of course, it is in our interest that international shipping also undergo a corresponding green conversion by adopting ambitious climate requirements within the IMO. It is important to address the climate challenge, and it is a good industrial policy, not least because it provides a market for green maritime technology, among other things. from Norwegian maritime clusters. Then I would like to stress that it was Norway that suggested that the IMO should establish an overall climate strategy with ambitious targets for emissions traditions, and it was we who led the negotiations that set such targets back in 2018. The Member States of the IMO included, inter alia: some to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping by at least 50 pst. by 2050, compared to 2008, and a vision to phase out greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping as quickly as possible this hundred year. In the climate strategy, it is also stated that the IMO climate negotiations are based on the Paris Agreement's temperature target. It's important. The IMO framework for climate-friendly and environmentally friendly shipping is based on common legally binding requirements for shipping. This means that the requirements are not based on voluntary efforts or on any differentiated contribution between countries. So when IMO member states adopt requirements, for example: improving the energy efficiency of a group, applying the requirements throughout the world and to the fleets of all countries. There is no doubt that this will work thoroughly with an offensive regulatory framework that will contribute to concrete spills, not least on Norwegian initiative, and I am pleased that this is happening. Norway has led the negotiations on the follow-up to climate strategies. For the first time in the negotiations, there is a hearty presence of international environmental stirrers. They have to deal with their proposals in the same way as the Member States, and in a year where the world has a pandemic and where a great deal of international environmental and climate diplomacy has stopped, we have conducted global negotiations within the IMO with new emission requirements, and we are very pleased that has happened. When it comes to the content of the requirements on the table, it is a framework containing binding energy efficiency requirements for both new and existing ships. It enters into force from 2023. But this is just the first step on the road to phase out greenhouse gas emissions. More is going to happen. Yes, more needs to be done in the years to come, and I can assure you that Norway will continue to be the consistent driver we have been for climate change in the IMO, as it will have been until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2234	I am uncertain whether the Council of State has understood the seriousness of this matter on my part, because it is a real concern I have, based on what international press writes, and what international environmental movement conveys. The Council of State is clear that he believes Norway should be as ambitious as possible and say what is on the table, but not what is Norway's position in the negotiations at the time we are in. The reality is that IMO negotiations are becoming a failure, and according to both environmental organisations and international press, Norway has contributed to such weak climate rules that we risk increasing emissions due to the overall growth of shipping as such, and not down by 2030. My question is still what is Norway's position? Because it is not supposed to be secret to the Stortinget specifically what proposals Norway supports in the negotiations that are on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2241	No, I think Stortinget is well aware of – through the answer I have just given and given before – that Norway has very ambitious positions in these negotiations, that we have been in front of them to find a place in general, that of course we are working for and want one to cut out as quickly as possible, that we should have strict demands, and that we should be able to ensure that international shipping also does its part in order to achieve the important temperature measurements in the Paris Agreement. Right now there is a meeting of the IMO Environment Committee meeting between 16 and 20 November. As far as I know, there's also a press in place, so there's nothing secret about what the different countries express, or what one goes in for. I can in some ways not do anything about the fact that the representative Bastholm has heard from someone that Norway does not have ambitious enough positions, but I can at least confirm that we have ambitious positions, and that we are a driver in these negotiations, and they are fortunately moving forward step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2248	I find it a little unsatisfactory that I have to wait for the international press to write about Norway's position, when I have invited the Council of State to a dialogue on what is Norway's position in those negotiations. In concrete terms, for example: Reported by the international press that Norway has allied itself with Japan, i.e. supports Japan’s proposals, which will contribute to weaker requirements for international shipping than those such as: is on the table by counter-proposals from Germany and Denmark. One specific question is, do we want to be part of the group that meets the most ambitious requirements? Then, as I understand it, Germany and Denmark are countries that have made proposals that will have requirements for open standards, for example. to the type of fuel that will provoke the replacement of some of the marine technologies that will not otherwise be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2253	I have to admit that I do not have a detailed overview of all the proposals being put on the table from all the countries in these discussions. In general, however, Norway is associated with the most ambitious countries in order to get the most ambitious demands. Then it's like in such processes that one has to be some, and all countries are forced to jeopardize themselves in different contexts in order to achieve unity. But there should be no doubt that our overarching policy is that the Paris Agreement's temperature targets are at the root of the IMO's work, that we are a driver, that we must make strict demands, and not least that we must have strict control of compliance. I am happy to come back to the representative Bastholm. If she has specific questions about individual proposals, I would like to help answer them later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2263	«In response to written question No. 291 confirms to the Council that the level of ambition of the government for new buildings of the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate, which will be the heart of the sea town of Bergen, has been reduced by 330 million. crowns in relation to the previously stated level. This, of course, reacts to the political environment in the West and business in the region is also concerned about these signals. Why is the government's eagerness to adjust so strongly when the opposite happens on other state building projects as government quarter to 36 billion? crowns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2270	Let me first underline that I have great expectations for the planned new construction of the Marine Research Institute and the Directorate of Fisheries. Good research and management are central to the growth of the marine food industry. A new building will mean a lift for both floors and facilitate them to do their job better and more efficiently. A construction project will often evolve along the way in terms of both content and costs. The cost estimate underlying the decision to investigate a new building was about 2.9 B.C.E. kr in today's crown value. After this, Statsbyggen has further developed the project on behalf of the Ministry. The cost of land costs and user equipment has increased. A few more functions have also been introduced, including: interlaboratory. In the last State Building report, the cost estimate was approx. 3.5 B.C.E. So I'm going to go up from 2.9. So I'm going to go up from 2.9. The cost estimate underlying the project is below 3.2 billion. kr, and is therefore still clear about what had been taken into account in the choice of the concept. It is important to have good cost control in such construction projects. Where necessary, changes must be made to keep costs down, while respecting the purpose of the construction. One of the changes that have been made since Statsbygg presented its latest report is that built for a lower growth in the number of employees up to 2040 than what had been taken into account in the draft elections, i.e. an increase of 80 employees instead of 213 employees. This is in line with the government's policy of limiting the growth in the number of employees in the country. The representative Njåstad draws up a comparison with the government quarterly project. First of all, I can express my opinion on the new construction of the Marine Research Institute and the Fisheries Directorate in Bergen, which are the projects for which I am responsible. However, I can assure you that the government is subject to good cost control for all construction projects. Each project has to be assessed separately and proper cost control must be carried out at the same time as ensuring that good construction is carried out in order to fulfil the objectives and functions set for the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2283	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which is quite similar to what I got on my written question. It is such that a now plan the maritime capital for its magnificent building for approx. Three billion. So one on the government quarter is going to be 36 billion. kr. I think everyone sees here there's two different further ones in there. And when one sees what one uses at Ås, at the lab there, for about 7 billion. kr, I believe that the maritime environment feels down-prioritized. My question is: does the Council of State think that it represents the commitment to what we will live on in the future, what is the industry of the future, that one uses poor 3 billion? kr on a large building in Bergen, while one can use over 7 billion. kr at Ås, for an industry dependent on subsidies, and one can spend nearly 40 billion. In the city on the government quarter? Does the Council of State think that it is in line with the importance of the industry in the long term in order to generate values?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2292	I would first like to say that for the government it is a goal to get the most back for the money no matter what kind of construction project it is. Large exceedances are not desirable developments, cf. such as: happened at Ås. At the same time, it is quite right to point out that Bergen is both a blue capital and the main seat of two very important institutions for Norwegian fisheries and seafood, namely the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries. It is absolutely necessary to try to achieve a co-location in order for them to carry out their mission better. I think it is a good thing that we have now made the decision to put in the work for the project, so you can get the planned project properly. So it is that regardless of the project, the goal must be that we get the best possible construction at the lowest possible cost. There must be no goal of spending as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2303	It has never been my ambition to spend the most possible money, but I thought it should be in the style of the function. Here's advanced research, there's advanced functions to lie in the building. We have great ambitions, both the Council of State and I, make us believe, that we shall live more of the blue in the future. Then we need more research options, one needs better management. I note that one downgrades the number of annual works to be located here. So that's my last question: is the idea that one should deal with fewer researchers and fewer administrators in the future, or is it planned to move functions away from Bergen to other places? Other batches, for example, propose: to move more to Tromsø. Is it part of the government's plan? Or is it clear that these functions should lie in Bergen and not be weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2310	It was a long and comprehensive question. There are no plans to move the headquarters of the Fisheries Directorate or the Marine Research Institute out of Bergen. So on a general basis, it can be said that there are certainly many government functions that could have been performed elsewhere than for example. in Oslo. I'm sure we'll agree on that, too. I believe that it is right to have an active attitude toward such things and the entire state spectrum. So it's important to say that it's added up to a growth of 80 employees. It's not a reduction, it's a smaller growth than what was originally foreseen, so 80 instead of 213. In addition, it may be said that the use of a normal office has changed. Today, of course, there is a lot of use of home offices, but also office landscapes and other ways of reducing office space are important to reduce costs. The laboratory functions themselves also need to be reviewed, but they are extremely important to have the project carried out satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2324	It's the same theme. ‘The government came one year ago with a marine strategy, Blue Opportunities, which clearly described that the sea will continue to be Norway’s main source of jobs, value creation and well-being in the future. The Marine Research Institute was highlighted as one of the largest marine research institutes in Europe. The Directorate-General for Fisheries is a global leader in the management of marine resources and co-location will further strengthen the sphere of competence. Why, however, does the Council of State choose to cut the project and weaken our leading marine knowledge environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2333	I thank you for the question and can fully join the representative, Grung, when she highlights the important role of the Marine Research Institute and the Directorate for Fisheries in research and management of the resources we have across the coast and in our marine areas. I'm really very proud of the work done by marine research and the Directorate of Fisheries. There is actually a bottom plan in Norwegian fisheries management, which is based on knowledge and science. The planned new building will mean an uplift for both floors. A new building will provide modern and appropriate premises centrally located in Bergen, and a co-location will facilitate better cooperation and more efficient operation. In addition, it will be an important urban development project for the city of Bergen. The marine research institute will have several new laboratories which will be able to perform tasks that are not possible with today's facilities. A construction project will often develop along the way – I have said it earlier today – in terms of both content and costs. The cost estimate underlying the decision was about 2.9 B.C.E. kr. After this, State Building has developed the project, as mentioned earlier today, so that the cost estimate that is now on the basis, approx. Three, two, two, three, two, three, two, three, three, two, three, three, two, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, two, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, It has to be repeated that it is important to have good cost control in large construction projects. If necessary, measures must be taken to keep costs down while respecting the objectives of the construction. One of the changes that have been made is that you dimension lower growth in the number of employees, i.e. 80 instead of 213, and, as you mentioned earlier, you might get a different type of office space in the future, more efficient land use than what we've had with the type of offices. I can assure you that the government has the same high ambitions for the planned new building now as when we started developing the project. One of the project’s performance targets summarises this well: research and management shall have functional areas that provide quality, capacity and efficiency in deliveries. This target is firm. The newly built project will significantly strengthen the competences of the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the Institute for Marine Research — and not a weakening, to which there is some indication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2348	Thanks for the answer. At least I've learned that in times of crisis it may be important to invest even more in knowledge, because there is a lot of uncertainty. But the OECD has been very clear, and it is reflected in the government's communication on maritime strategy that the marine industries have expected a doubling of growth. If there is one area where Norway is really positioned, it is just the marine industries. Governments have probably been visiting and seeing more research on harvesting further down the food chain, and we have climate-related challenges, against fisheries management, etc. So what are the ambitions of the Council of State to position Norway, in terms of taking advantage of the uncertainty that is now, but at the same time ensuring more value creation – if you don't focus more on knowledge than it seems now, when you have to reduce the number of posts because there are state research positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2355	I would first like to say that this government has invested considerable resources in marine research and has had an increase over the years in the appropriations for marine research. This is because science and knowledge must be at the bottom when we are going to make decisions within the fisheries management. I think Norway is internationally recognised for what we have done in terms of fisheries management. The reason for this lies in the knowledge that both the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries have built up over the last hundred years. That science and knowledge is, of course, the bottom line of further development of the fishing industry and, to the extent that the aquaculture industry is also involved, and it can also help these industries to become forever renewable industries if we manage it properly. The State budget also contains concrete proposals for strengthening knowledge acquisition through a project called CoastWatch, under the direction of marine research. It is also granted approx. 300 million. SEK together for a new coastal research vessel, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2362	It is quite right that marine research and the Directorate for Fisheries have expectations that the basics that marine research really develops can help to strengthen fisheries management. So co-location is very important in the work that is going on right now. But then I heard in a previous answer, and now, you think the cell office is out. But the corona may have shown that the cell office is coming back in. You might want to take that into account in what's happening now. The closing question is: What kind of dialogue? All of us on the Hordalands bench have reacted to the fact that when you finally have to have a new state building in one of our most important industries, there should be some such rope things – we have cost control, no problem with it – then there should be something where we should save ourselves because it is to be added to Bergen. So the last question is, what kind of dialogue is expected to have with the environments in view of what is realistic, so that we get the flagship we're actually expecting, in the most important area of research?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2371	I want to say that I don't think that this has increased from 2.9 to 3.2 billion. kr, is saving yourself to find, to be completely honest. It's a significant amount, and I think it's a mission not to spend more money than you have to. At least you have to get the most back for the money without going beyond the purpose. It is not desirable to have large exceedances in public building projects, and one of the most important things we can do then is to spend time and resources on good planning in advance. So what is now allocated to the project is a first step in a really significant allocation of about 200 million. kr for the pre-project for this building. Of course, those who are going to use the building are involved in planning and gnawing this project, which of course will be in dynamic development, like other projects. But I think it is a good thing that we have made a decision to start a pre-project, and we have very much faith that this will be a great project both for Norwegian research and for Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2378	With that, there's case no. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-18.ana.ud265e2392	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
