ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e72	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting, and it is deemed to be adopted. There are two applications for a permit. by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative of Hanne Dyveke Süttar from 1 December until further notice from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative of Hadia Tajik from 1 December until further notice These applications shall be examined and accepted without delay and shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Rogaland, Julia Wong, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Hadia Tajik's leave from 1 December to 18 December for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Northern Ireland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen 1 December and until further notice For Rogaland: Tom Kalsås 1–18. December
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e120	Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Tom Kalsås are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e127	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy this week, and will consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e140	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e145	On behalf of Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, I will put forward proposals to put in place return cases concerning children and young asylum seekers with long residence periods, pending clarifications in the legislation on residence permits for strong human reasons or particularly linked to the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e150	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e194	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 4 and 5 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e224	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e231	The Financial Contracts Act is one of the most central laws governing the financial industry. Today’s Financial Contracts Act was adopted in 1999, and since then we have experienced a financial crisis, a digitisation revolution and a large increase in consumer credit. In recent years, there have also been five EU directives requiring amendments to the Financial Agreements Act, and on this basis the government has decided to create a new and updated law. One of the main aims of the law is to make the text of the law more comprehensible to ordinary people. Several non-statutory rules are also written into the law. This makes it easier for ordinary people to enforce their rights. One of the main measures of the law is to facilitate the digitisation of the financial industry. This makes services easier to use, and the lower costs of banks will lead to lower prices for consumers. At the same time, the law takes into account those who are not yet using the PC and the Internet, for example. part of our elders. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen an explosion of fraud via BankID. The new law states that the bank which has granted loans to the wrong person must, as a general rule, cover the loss instead of the victim. This gives the bank an incentive to create safer solutions for lending. Norwegian customers have incurred more and more consumer debts in recent years. The consumption debt in Norway amounts to 150 billion. And of this, 30 billion is going to be. kr defaulted, i.e. not paid in time. The law we are adopting today is tightening up bank lending practices, so that fewer people end up in debt. I would also like to say a few words about the views of the Left in this matter. This law is a great victory for consumers. The consumption debt of the Nordics has exploded in recent years. I received an e-mail from NORFinance yesterday, offering NOK 500000 in unsecured loans at a very high interest rate. In a weak moment, many people agree to such offers. Therefore, there are now record payment problems, although banks make good money on the loan. And of the 150 billion. Nordics have a consumption debt, which is now 30 billion. kr overdue. The banks are now required to reject persons who are unlikely to be able to repay their loan. Banks must now start to examine their customers more closely before they issue loans, instead of current practice, where loans are accepted in a few hours, and banks make money on higher interest rates and charges. This is a victory for all future people who do not end up in a debt trap because of today's law. Together with stricter rules to issue consumer loans, lower collection fees, previously adopted debt registers and a law now full of consumer protection rules, I believe that the government is now taking many important steps for consumers. In recent years, hundreds of people have been victims of BankID fraud. The fraud leads to the bank issuing loans to the scammer in the victim's name, and who has to pay the loan back? It's often the victim himself. This year a woman had to sell her apartment and move from her daughter after someone cheated her for $2 million. kr. Several hundred people in Norway have probably been affected by this injustice in recent years, and we politicians have to take some of the blame. When we opened up for signing via electronic signature, we did not do a good enough investigation into what the consequences could be. The legislative proposal we are about to adopt today is correcting this. From now on, banks must bear most of the loss if they lend to the wrong person. In this way, victims of loan fraud are protected as much as people who have lost their account, where banks already have to cover most of the loss. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 and 2 on behalf of the Right, the Party of Progress and the Left and the proposals No. 3 to 6 on behalf of the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e254	The representative of Solveig Schytz has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e259	For the Workers' Party, the essential element of this proposal for a new Financial Agreements Act is the establishment of a stronger protection for consumers through, for example: strengthening the customer's claims protection. The financial sector has undergone major structural and technological changes since the adoption of the existing law in its time. New products are constantly being offered, which for us consumers can appear to be both complex and unwieldy. Since the current financial law came into force in 1999, Norway has been experiencing a financial crisis, a period of oversales of different financial investment products, such as high risk unit trusts with smaller insurance elements. Over the period of pandemic in the last half of the year, we also see that digitisation is being stepped up in a lot of areas. Both nationally and at European level, there has been a need to change the risk position in the contractual relationship to the benefit of customers. A more active supervisory authority and enhanced legal requirements are therefore essential. An important purpose of the new law is precisely to ensure a good balance between the service provider and the customer. The rights of the consumer must be clarified and the obligations of the provider must be concrete and transparent. The fact that financial undertakings have significantly more knowledge than the consumer of the services offered is natural and it may be difficult for the consumer to discover any contradictions of interest. The consumer – that is, you and I, President, i.e. ordinary people – may have poorer assumptions to assess the risk, costs and return potential of some financial services, and there may be little room for testing and failure. Some decisions, such as the admission of loans to the purchase of housing and the choice of pension product, are taken a few times in life and can have a significant impact on the private economy. Today it is such that regulations on the marketing of credit prohibit the marketing of credit in the case of door sales. The Labour Party considers it necessary to introduce a corresponding ban on the marketing of social media credit on the Internet. At the hearing, this also appeared to be a point made by several of the authorities that made their views known. Unsecured credit is marketed mainly through social media and television. Social media can directly target potentially vulnerable people who can get into lasting debt problems via such services to a much greater extent than previously-higher marketing strategies. We also know that social media are places where very young people, including children, are actively present. The Labour Party believes there is a need for such a ban and will ask the government to draft a bill. Digitalisation has made the use of electronic signature more and more common. This is an effective tool, but many disputes have also shown that older legislation cannot regulate all types of borderline cases. The working party considers it important to ensure that the consumer is well protected, which addresses various new issues related to the use of such tools. It is important to clarify that it has not been intended to make the consumer's liability more stringent in the new legislation. In the proposal for a legal text, § 3-20 starts by ramming up what a customer can be held responsible for, namely a description that the bank may require the customer to cover the loss the bank has taken if the customer has done something that the bank believes is irresponsible. The Workers' Party believes that an opposite starting point should be used and that the financial institution is initially the one that has to lose if the customer has been defrauded. We believe that this is both a good consumer policy and a good legal position. Furthermore, the original proposal can be understood as allowing for even more stringent replacement practices than we do in Norway in all other claims. The Labour Party does not consider this to be a desirable political development. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank in particular the Consumer Council and other Hearing Officers for their good feedback and good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e280	First, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee and, not least, the case spokesperson for the work on this matter and for the cooperation. It is a joint committee that is behind many good and important legislative changes that make it safer and better to be a banker in the digital banking quarter. A comprehensive and necessary renewal of financial agreements has been envisaged, which mainly provide better protection for consumers than at present. A more complex and digitised banking quarter also requires legislation to protect people from fraud and debt that could lead to economic ruin. The new financial agreement will improve consumer protection against fraud and misuse of electronic signature. This method of fraud is an increasing problem, and the Centre Party is pleased that its protection is now strengthened. The new laws do not mean that responsibility disappears from the consumer, but rather that the amount of money lost depends on the consumer's diligence. That way, people are being prevented from losing large amounts because of fraud. The centre party is pleased that a joint committee has been behind new regulations that ensure consumers, such as: becomes his or her bank card. Professional parties are now more responsible, and consumers are more secure than before. Unfortunately, debt is growing among the Nordics, and then special debt related to consumer loans. The centre party is pleased that the new law replaces a non-repudiation obligation, which means that the banks can no longer lend to consumers who are unable to borrow their loan. In the case of the transfer of claims, so-called change in the creditor, the general rule today is that it can be done without the consent of the indebted person. The central party, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, believes that this must be banned, as long as the indebted person does not give his consent. It is unfortunate that the debts of individuals are traded between creditors, which may lead to more aggressive collection by customers, from the company that buys the debt. There is an aggressive marketing of credit loans among others. Many take out loans with sky high interest rates, which can lead them into a debt spiral. The centre party believes that the ban on the marketing of door-to-door credit must, of course, be extended to social media, where the way from advertising to getting thousands of dollars in credit loans is very short. The central party, together with the majority of the committee, believes that the third paragraph of Section 3-19 must be removed, since it is unthinkable that consumers should lose the claim against a financial institution if they themselves have not discovered that they have been cheated or lost due to other errors of the financial institution. Furthermore, we point out that it is usually the financial institution that first notices fraud or errors, and that it may be a little wise if an institution gets an incentive not to alert the consumer appropriately. The requirement that there be an absolute 13-month period for individuals to report claims if they suspect fraud or other errors seems to be poor grounds. The central party believes it is important that a consumer does not lose the right to a claim against a financial institution because of an absolute deadline. We therefore believe that the third paragraph of Section 3-19 should not be attached. For the Centre Party, it is important to ensure that the consumer does not come out worse after the legislative proposals in Sections 3 to 20 and 3 to 21 than they do in the current law. The Party therefore supports the proposed amendments to these paragraphs together with the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e303	It is an important consumer law Stortinget has to deal with today. The new Financial Contracts Act will regulate services that we all use and depend on – both loan agreements, payment service agreements and account agreements. The current Financial Agreements Act dates from 1999. Much has happened in this area since the current Financial Contracts Act was adopted. The provision of financial services has increased, and there have been major changes in terms of payment solutions, the ways in which agreements are concluded, and the ways in which we otherwise relate to the bank. The financial market is demanding to deal with consumers. Products may be difficult to understand and the financial market is characterised by information asymmetry between the customer and the service provider. We rarely enter into some types of agreements and agreements may have a significant impact on the private economy. The new law will provide for enhanced consumer protection. Particular attention has been paid to clarifying the obligations of service providers and the rights of consumers. I would also like to stress that the new law contains important measures to prevent debt problems. At the conclusion of credit agreements with consumers, the service provider will be given an explanation obligation, a rating obligation and not least an obligation to refuse the loan application if it is to be assumed that the customer will not be able to meet its obligations under the agreement. Hopefully, the new rules will lead to more liability for credit providers. Abuse of electronic signature has been a topic that has received considerable attention in legislative work. I am pleased that the Committee emphasises the need to provide victims with better protection. In practice, we consumers rely on using digital solutions to access financial services, and the digital solutions bring significant savings to industry. At the same time, service providers have completely different opportunities to take action to prevent abuse than the customer has. There is therefore a clear need for new rules that give banks greater responsibility for the risk of abuse posed by digitisation. It may not be the case that it is primarily the customers who are to bear this responsibility under the personal and financial burden it entails for the victim. The new Financial Contracts Act is comprehensive and contains a number of important provisions of great practical and economic importance for the industry and for us consumers. I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees with most of the provisions of the bill, and that the committee supports the purpose of the bill, namely to strengthen consumer protection, a better balance between service providers and customers, and that we have a law that is better adapted to today's financial market. This has been a demanding piece of legislation with clear contradictions of interest. I believe that the Committee has made good sense and that we are now getting a modern financial agreement with good solutions to complex issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e323	If someone owes you or me money, we have to try to get that person to pay us back. We have taken the risk of borrowing money ourselves, and then we have to owe ourselves if it was a bad decision. In the ultimate consequence, we can seek help from a debt collection agency or a lawyer; however, we cannot go to aggressive cash collectors with uncertain reputation. Why does the government think it is right for financial corporations not to do the same risk assessment as ordinary people do? In other words, why should such companies be able to sell their claims to aggressive collectors instead of having to deal with debt collection companies and lawyers, as ordinary people must? Is there a difference between Jørgen Hatter and King Solomon, or should we also make a prohibition for rich financial corporations against selling overdue and defaulted claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e328	This is a value chain, and I understand that the institutions to which it refers are professional institutions that don't sell to aggressive torpedoes, which were the representative's initial remark, but that sell it to underlying companies where incurring claims is part of a business model. So this is what makes the financial market just go around, that you can transfer receivables, and that they're driven in. But they operate according to the laws, regulations and assessments required by the law. And they think we're good enough, we haven't seen the need to make any further changes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e333	Then probably the Labour Party and the government disagree a little. But over to another theme: The government has on several occasions expressed concern that the debt of the North is now at a historically high level, and that they are concerned that the default of consumption loans is increasing. Why don't the government and government parties want to dampen the consumption loan pressure by limiting the possibility to advertise such debt on social media, where we are basically all, but especially young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e339	It is not that we do not want it, it is that today this is regulated in the marketing rules we have. So the question is, are we going to further regulate this? Now we have to draw up regulations for this, and this could be one of the things we're assessing, but it's simply not. The term ‘social media’ does not have a clear content and we should have a legal language that is both predictable and comprehensible to all, both consumers and industry. So it's simply not, but we're worried about evolution, and we have to look at how we can limit the possibility of spreading the message of cheap loans to a very expensive money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e349	The Financial Contracts Act is about consumers’ rights and obligations. It is definitely an important law in which obligations and rights are just made clear. For us, it's about finding the balance between the private responsibility and the industry's way of operating its store, and what we've tried through our proposals. I refer to these proposals and take up proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e354	The representative of Kjell-Børge Freiberg has addressed the proposal to which he referred. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e361	I'm not going to tail out this debate, but I want to go a little bit closer to a few of the proposals. The Labour Party believes that § 3-19 should be removed from the legal text in its entirety, because it sets an objective limitation period of 13 months after the signing has been completed. In that case, the customer loses all his ability to claim against the financial institution after that period has expired. This seems completely unreasonable and is also strangely designed, as the customer does not have a claim on the bank. The bank, on the other hand, has to require the customer to pay for the loss. Then it does not seem that the Labour Party will have a majority in this Chamber for our proposal, and we will then vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the government parties to amend the same paragraph. As I explained in my main post, the members of the Workers' Party believe it is important to ensure that consumers are not placed worse after today's legal status and application, and at the same time we understand that it has not been intended to make the consumer's responsibility more stringent. All the time we do not seem to have a majority in favour of this proposal, we will also vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals of the government parties in this matter. The amendments to §3-21: The Workers' Party believes that the entire third paragraph should be removed from the legal text. This justifies these members that the legal text as it stands could represent a more stringent compensation rule than we have in most other areas. There are no good reasons why a consumer should be given less protection under the new bill than is currently available under the general rules on compensation. Unfortunately, then, the Labour Party does not have a majority in favour of this either, and we will therefore vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the government parties. As the President is aware, the majority of the committee is not necessarily the same as the majority in this Chamber. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that the Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way on items Nos. Three, four, five, six.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e374	I did not get to thank the committee properly in my previous post. That is why I take the floor again to do so, because I would like to stress that there has been very broad cooperation in the committee and a very comprehensive work. Many have contributed to the fact that we now have an overall committee behind the adoption of an important law, and not least: we have a broad majority for important clarifications in the law. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e379	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. Case No. 6 and 7 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e410	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e417	The size currently addresses the framework conditions for future wind turbines on land. Wind power engages, and it is therefore good that the Committee has managed to reach agreement in essential areas where the government has not seen what was going on, especially in the municipalities that have experienced wind power plants. There has been a measure of the widest possible anchoring in order to provide the predictability necessary in such cases. I must also thank the Committee for good cooperation. I just have to say that coronary restraints make it more demanding to get to the good political processes, but we've done it. Wind power has evolved into a significant source of energy in the Norwegian power sector, but there are also increasing challenges to address different considerations. The Committee considers that there is a need for good, knowledge-based and open processes to balance the use of land, climate challenges, loss of nature, security of supply, access to renewable energy and the need for new jobs. The Committee agrees that the Planning and Building Act should be used as a basis for land clearance, that municipalities should receive a remuneration and that it should take a maximum of five years from the concession until the installations are in operation. The Labour Party had expected to have a majority in favour of a comprehensive plan of energy, climate, energy efficiency and industry in a context, both at national and regional level. 50 pst. by energy use is still fossil, and if we are to succeed in creating more jobs with lower climate pressures and meeting low emissions and climate requirements, we need more renewable energy and building down the silage to speed up the transition. But the government chooses to see it separately, with a climate announcement now before Christmas and an energy and business report to spring. The Labour Party also lacks support for more research on the consequences of wind power on nature, the environment, animal life and, in particular, health. We also need more knowledge of wind effects at different heights. The working party also expected to support how wind turbines can be used as much as possible in the circular economy. Waste from older wind turbines is a growing problem that our neighbouring countries, the Nordic Council and the EU are working towards entering the circular economy. There is no need for Norway to be in the back of this area. The Labour Party believes it would be wise to give the county councils responsible for economic and social development, climate, nature and outdoor life a more active role in the regional assessment of the need for wind power and possible location. We need the popular commitment to draw up plans for the widest possible short-range renewable energy, taking into account regional development and focusing on just nutrients, outdoors, nature and peripheral-central strokes. With this, I am promoting the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e434	The representative Ruth Grung then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e439	Since 19 June, when we debated wind power in this Chamber last time, the majority of the population has gone from being positive to wind power building on land to being negative. I understand that, because with a system of constitution that doesn't focus on local anchoring, indigenous rights and climate considerations or nature considerations, it almost had to go like that. The consequence is projects such as Davvi wind power plants, which are to be built in Norway’s second largest non-intervention area, where the expansion will have serious consequences for the reindeer industry, and the Haramsøya wind farm, where it has been given the baffle in the fact that the expansion can destroy bird habitats and push red-listed species against extinction. The government's wind power policy has so far failed, and we can say that Norway's wind power policy has been. It is based on the fact that large industrial plants are to be built on the peaks of the mountains and the vast areas where there is the most wind, but where at the same time we know that the natural interventions are unavoidable. But the time for such large wind turbines on land should be over. Destroying more nature now will only strengthen the climate crisis and eradicate even more species in ecosystems on which we humans are totally dependent. The Greens say no to that. That is why we are proposing today, together with the Swedish Government, to ensure that the development of wind power on land should not lead to the degradation of nature or to the weakening of indigenous rights. Nevertheless, the Greens are, of course, the Greens for wind power on land. The Greens are proposing today to ask the government to draw up a plan for small-scale wind power generation in ports, industrial areas and other areas where wind power can be expanded without compromising nature and indigenous rights. That's how we can get a lot more climate-friendly energy without destroying nature. The Communication on wind power puts emphasis on nature considerations and the rights of indigenous peoples more seriously, but is vague as to how it should be done in practice. The inclusion of wind planning and the construction of wind power plants in the Law on Planning and Building is good, but municipalities may also wish to reduce the nature of national protection. Therefore, this setting does not in any way ensure that nature is protected against wind power generation as it should. With regard to the Red proposals, we are voting for most, but of course we are voting against stopping all wind power on land and the proposal to limit power exports, which neither helps nature nor the climate. Otherwise, we shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 2 and 6, as well as the suggestions we're part of in the setting. With that I address the proposals I refer to, also our loose proposal to stop allowing – at least consider it – these noise agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e456	The representative of Une Bastholm then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e461	We are very pleased that we have finally arrived at a message that will now help to bring down the level of conflict as to what is involved in the creation of wind power on land. Following the release of proposals for national wind frameworks on hearing, which occurred in parallel with the launch of several wind turbines, the level of conflict has only escalated. I am therefore very pleased that the government took the initiative to submit a message, which will help to regain legitimacy in the processes. Through the bulk treatment, a good message has been further streamlined through several decision-making points, over which the size is invited to vote. One is an additional enhancement of local authority in the sense that we want municipalities to make positive plan clarifications through planning and building laws. It is no longer good to make waiver decisions. The decision has been formulated so that we ask the government to return to Stortinget with the matter. This is because we also see challenges in doing so, as a neighbouring municipality still only has the right to be heard in such cases, while a neighbouring municipality can get its share of the disadvantages, but not the income. The other thing we've got a hold on is the department's open-ended invitation to ask the government to look at how a local compensate for the creation of wind power. For those municipalities that choose to make their area available for energy production, it is natural that we set up a tax regime that also allows local values to remain. This will mean that it will be prudent for those considering the establishment of wind turbines and for municipalities. Another important moment, which we consider to be a large part of the back cover of the resistance we experience to wind power, is the time it has been possible to use from concession to start-up or to a set of equipment in operation. This also includes changes that would have been possible, both in terms of the number of mills, size and size. There is a great deal of understanding that such conditions are gross for frustration and lack of control. This is also a great deal of reason why local government, which has initially been in favour, has now turned around to oppose it. We are thus streaming both the design of the mills, where the concession must contain a limitation of height, distance from housing, etc. And last, but not least, we are much clearer about how to clean the plant, and that guarantees need to be in place. I am pleased that this work has now been started and ended on our watch. There is a broad consensus that the concession law that we have has not been good enough. I am also pleased that there is such a broad political consensus about the measures that now need to be taken. I feel confident that in the future we will get better and more anchored processes in the wind turbines. As I experience receiving this agreement from municipalities, organisations and businesses, they also see that these arrests we have got in place will get the debate on a better footing. This is absolutely necessary to put the legitimacy in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e482	Let me also start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter, and thanking all those who have joined us on good proposals. If we disagree with parts of the proposals under consideration, we all agree on the need to change today's regime. There has been a lot of trouble and despair out there, and it has been leading the Progress Party in our desire for a new regulatory framework. Therefore, it was essential that we were given a pass to move the treatment from the Energy Act to the Planning and Building Act. So when it was moved in the opposite direction and the Central Party deprived local authorities of the opportunity to control the processes, which were intended to be behind – justified by the faster handling of these issues – it could not go fast enough. But then some parties' attitude to wind turbines was completely different at the time than it is today. We had a Center Party that had a goal of 1,000 windmills. We have that in Norway today. The goal of the Central Party was 1000 windmills only in Rogaland. Today we all agree that it's not the speed of administration that's the problem. I am therefore very pleased that the Center Party is now joining this change. It will create a good and clear allocation of roles between energy authorities and planning authorities. We put forward a good proposal that addresses many of the shortcomings that today's legislation has, and that should facilitate good processes in the future under the direction of the municipalities. There are many different proposals for treatment, and I have received many requests to support more of these. It's not going to happen to the Progress Party, for different reasons. But the main reason is that we now want to give more power to the municipalities. They're going to have more real power, and we're going to be the ones to listen to the municipalities. I don't think there's going to be any better administration if there's going to be any bureaucrats and define what's wild-field, and what's not. As I said, we're going to give more power to the municipalities, without these being overruled by regional authorities in the next round. We've cleared up the code a lot. Future concessions are allowed a period of five years until installations have to be in operation. The construction distance, number and height of turbines shall be clarified by concession. Subsidies shall be eliminated and the tax burden on wind power increased and more favoured by local authorities. This is not a matter of concern to previously granted concessions, but a matter for clearing up future wind power concessions in Norway. I believe we are making decisions today that ensure good processes in the future, and that provide clear leadership for the builder, the landowner and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e499	In recent years, there has rightly been an increasing commitment to the development of wind power on land. In many places in the country, it is pointed out that the assumptions change from concession to construction. I have a lot of understanding that there will be reactions to it. The Centre Party wishes locally anchored development which preserves landscapes and natural qualities, takes into account existing industries and contributes to the income of the communities concerned. In practice, the development of wind power on land is not sufficiently regulated by Norwegian legislation. The Central Party has proposed several times in recent years that decisions on the development of wind power must be in line with local and local government decisions and that there should be no concession contrary to municipal governance decisions. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have repeatedly voted in favour of the Stortinget, and unfortunately it looks as if they are doing so today. I am surprised that the Progress Party today is voting for proposals we have promoted for local veto. Just a few weeks ago we could read in the media that the Progress Party had secured local veto to the municipalities in the negotiations with the government. Today, however, there is no proposal from the government parties or from the Progress Party that guarantees the municipalities the right to veto wind power issues. The centre party believes that municipalities need stronger and more predictable instruments, in particular to slow down land use in areas with obvious natural values. The centre party therefore considers that there are good reasons to allow land use in the Planning and Building Act with the local government as a regulatory authority, in contrast to today, where this is regulated by the Energy Act. It looks like there'll be a majority for today. But here again, the Center Party wanted a clearer decision. Technological developments have been significant in wind power in recent years, and the Centre agrees, in principle, that state-of-the-art technologies should be used in the development of wind power. At the same time, however, this implies that the intervention in nature and the installation itself will be completely different from that envisaged for the treatment of the concession application. The centre party therefore proposes that it should follow that the municipalities should also be given an opportunity to re-examine the case and decide on changed assumptions before the development begins. We believe that a comprehensive review of the Land Wind Scheme should address and present even clearer solutions to these issues. The case raises important issues related to local democracy and natural and environmental values, but also ownership of Norwegian power. With this I take up the suggestions from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e516	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e521	The world is facing two very serious environmental challenges. It's the climate crisis, and it's the loss of nature. Both will have a fundamental impact on our lives if we don't meet them with the strength and power that makes us turn them back. Half of our energy consumption is fossil. It needs to be reduced and replaced by renewable energy. At the same time, we must ensure the development of renewable energy that does not destroy our common basis of life: nature. It's not easy, but it has to be possible. We have to solve the two environmental crises in ways that don't reinforce one through the solutions we have on the other. For the past two and a half years, we've seen a tremendous commitment from many Northers to take care of our amazing nature. For someone who's been active in the environmental struggle for over 30 years, it's a pleasure to see such a great commitment to our nature. The resistance that has grown toward more wind turbines, and that shows our love for nature, is understandable and must be taken seriously. Even if some steps are taken in the right direction today, there is still a part that remains. SV had hoped that the Storting could have used the opportunity today to make a stronger ring around our threatened nature and the interests of our indigenous people, together. In fact, there are proposals for tightening the legislation by the government, and there will be some further tightening of the treatment in the Stortinget. Among other things, there is a consensus that municipalities should have greater influence by re-examining the wind energy issue also in the Planning and Building Act. But the Planning and Building Act does not provide nature with strong enough protection and a strong enough protection. Therefore, it was SV's hope that the government parties would have sought a broad settlement in the Stortinget today, a broad settlement that safeguarded nature, and that secured our indigenous people. Unfortunately, the government parties chose instead to cooperate with the party that wants the greatest and most degradation of Norwegian nature, the Progress Party. SV brought with it both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the MDG on a proposal here today that would have given nature much stronger protection, and is amazed that so-called environmental parties on the Stortinget could vote against these proposals today. In today's setting, it is quite clear that the willingness to take care of nature for our descendants is much greater on the red-green side than on the grey-black side, and I take it up with SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e537	The representative Lars Haltbrecken took up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e542	First of all, as Chairman of the Committee, I would like to thank the entire Committee for its work on this message, especially in the situation we are facing. I am also very pleased that it is such a broad majority of the message. As many people have experienced, there has been a lot of debate about some wind power issues and a lot of commitment. And it's good that people are involved in the expansion and loss of nature. There are others who have said that we are in a climate crisis, but we are also facing a major loss of nature, and we need to solve both challenges in the future. Then it's also about local democracy, which we need to take more into account. I am very pleased with the efforts that Liv Kari Eskeland from the Right has made here, and also Terje Halleland from the Advance Party. For the Left, it has been important to involve local democracy to a greater extent, to take back some of the power. It has been that an agreement has been reached with the builders, and then a jump over the local democracy that has come to the end of the process. We're going to turn that around now. It is also a fact that it was the red-green government that introduced in 2009 the concession law that created great controversy. There was a timetable for a large-scale expansion, and 50 concessions were given under the red-green government. Under the Right and Advance Party it was given 40, and after the Left came into government, it is given 3. It's not necessarily that there's a consequence of the Left in government, because it's been given incentives for development, but it shows that there's a horizon here between 10 and 15 years that's important to consider. Therefore, it has not been given that people should understand what happened before you see the windmills coming up, and they have also become both more and higher in the process. In 2009, the Progress Party was the most opposed to giving the mandate to the Energy Act and the NVE alone to grant concession, so it is no wonder that the Left goes into partnership with the Progress Party to reverse just the red-green legislation. That's when we take back some of the local power. It's a little encouraging to listen to the Center Party. Geir Pollestad is not in the hall today, but on the Jären it is built a lot, and it has become a lot of expansion in many municipalities with the Central Party rapporteurs. The center party is very concerned about how to distribute the revenues, so it's not like they're against anything, it's just that there's going to be more to the municipalities. For the Left, we have done so much on nature's behalf over the nearly eight years of cooperation with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, and this is a natural consequence of that cooperation. We're tightening up where one is going to do that, we're putting on to bring down the climate emissions, which has now fallen over four years, so this is a development in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e555	I also want to start where many others have started, by thanking for the cooperation and thanking for the high degree of agreement in the matters we are dealing with. A lot of that bottom of a common recognition that we need a code that is up-to-date on the evolution that has actually occurred on the wind power front. Our regulatory framework must be sufficient to raise the level of wind power from being in a development phase to becoming a profitable industry, and that is one of the reasons why the level of conflict in the development of wind power in recent years has increased. It also understands that we have had a regulatory framework and a technology development where the projects have changed, and where the time from a concession has been given, until the expansion has started, has become too long, and that the turbines have become bigger. There have been major changes to the project, which is a serious message that is now being produced. This is the starting point for the government's wind forecast. It contains many good tightening and preparation of the legislation. This message has been a good basis for legislation that addresses the challenges of large wind turbines to a greater extent and has also been a good starting point for the negotiations that have been here on the Storting. When we in Stortinget have negotiated this matter, we have made it clear that one should come with further tightening of the legislation. All in all, we now have a code for the planning and construction of wind power plants to be incorporated under the planning and building laws, which facilitates changes in concession treatment to ensure local and regional management, increased time courses, fewer changes in projects and more stringent requirements for builders. In the future it shall be such that in the concessions, the number of turbines planned and their height and a buffer zone shall be established for bus services or other activities around them. All in all, this is a change that gives greater local political involvement, and that gives more clarity to the rules – that one gets a more stringent and takes over many of the recordings that have been made in the process of this crash message. Another theme that is also addressed is that a call for proposals is now being made, where the government will come back with both local compensation for the development of wind power plants and a review of the tax rules for wind power plants. There is no doubt that it is important to put in place a tax regime that is far-reaching and that can more effectively compensate those who are affected by wind power expansion. In Stortinget, it has been agreed that a need to impose stricter requirements on the owners of wind turbines when it comes to clean-up and the greatest possible degree of restoration of nature after the expansion has been made. Builders will have to guarantee that before they start building up. All in all, Stortinget has taken on an important role in recognising that we need a regulatory framework that is up-to-date with the situation we are facing today. There the government has delivered a good message, and the cooperation in Stortinget has strengthened it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e574	For too long, wind power capital has been raging Norwegian nature and sending profits out of the country. People around the country have protested against severe natural interference in their neighbourhoods for no use. Many now have to live with constant noise from wind turbines right by the house or cabin. Today, the Storting stands united behind a series of restraints for future projects, but it is still too little late. Red believes that we need a full stop to new wind turbines on land, so that precious nature and communities around the country breathe again. We come up with a series of proposals for the wind power communication. We want the Stortinget to give a clear message that nature takes precedence over wind turbines, and we want people to be able to say clearly no through referendums without the state being able to overrun it. We want to ensure that the nature surveys carried out are good enough and that the Environment Directorate is involved in the assessment of the impact studies together with the NVE. And then we propose an independent investigation. Let's do that, for example. because the municipality of Rogaland has undergone wind power projects in its counties and they found that turbines have increased in height from 120 metres to 200 metres without any new impact assessment, that the builders are authorised to make major changes such as increasing the power plant’s power output by a total of 50 pst. in a few days, even without an impact assessment, and that roads within and outside the site are not subject to any real impact assessment, which is therefore a breach of the impact assessment regulations. Then the ministry went through some projects after the Stortinget decided that the ministry had to do it. First, Tina Bru decided that most of the cases would not be examined because they had been decided. And secondly, it was the Ministry of Oil and Energy that even went through the processes where they themselves and their own directorate, NVE, have implemented them. It may not be so strange that no defects can be found when the belly examines its own handling of the oat bag. Therefore, independent examination of the contested projects and practices is needed in such cases over time. Otherwise, we're not going to be able to make the contractions in a new concession system real either. If the Progress Party and the Workers' Party will be on the side of the population, nature and not the wind power barons, they must vote in favour of the Red's proposal for an independent examination in the Chamber today – do not give way, show that you have a little spinal column. I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e587	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e592	Today, the size of the population will take important measures that will set a new direction for the development of wind power on land in Norway. In the future, much less wind power will be built on land and only where it is clearly desired by the municipalities, landowners and people. I think that's good. But wind power is about 10 pst. of Norway’s electricity supply in the normal year, and it is the result of a wild policy that has been the result of an overall increase. As the responsible state council, I need to emphasise just this. When the level of conflict is high, the fronts are steep and the words are harsh, it is important to remember the responsibility that lies with us politicians to stand up for decisions and stand up for politics. In the sometimes harsh debate on wind power on land, many people have experienced the feelings that are put into action: civil servants, employees in power companies, civil servants and women - ordinary people doing a job that is a direct follow-up to political decisions. Similarly, I would like to stress that the government takes seriously the commitment that has been made visible through popular resistance to wind power in many places in the country. In the relatively short time I have been an oil and energy minister, I have met several of these people, and it makes a strong impression on me when people cry over losing their nature as they know it. I understand that many strongly disagree with the decisions that were made, and that they would so much like to see them transformed. When we submitted Report. St. 28 for 2019 – 2020 earlier this year, there was a necessary adjustment of the price. It was quite obvious that we had to take a foot in the ground and a thorough political process about the way forward. In the Communication, the Government proposed significant changes and intensifications in the concession treatment of wind power. It's no exaggeration to call it historical contractions. The main measures of the Communication are aimed at strengthening local and regional anchoring, increasing the time span and far fewer changes in the projects. This is important, because in many of the conflicts we see around the country, there is a lot of frustration that the projects have changed a lot since they got their original concession. In my view, the government's proposal to set the maximum turbine height, the requirements for distance from construction and the tightening of deadlines are important. We also see that a lot of conflict is related to impacts on nature, the environment and the landscape. The government will therefore take more account of nature, the environment and its neighbours. We also know how important outdoor life is for the Norwegian people. We will require better impact assessments and further development of the knowledge base. We also want a better involvement of the reindeer. I understand that the proposals for tightening up have been well received by interest groups, municipalities and so far as the wind power industry. I look forward to working further with the Storting on the follow-up to the decisions taken today, and will remind you of the common responsibility we now have for making a comprehensive policy for wind power on land that is running over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e614	You're still 50 pst. of our fossil energy consumption, and we lack more renewable energy. At any rate, wind power on land is the most reasonable investment in wind power. But we have seen that when decisions are taken locally, it is challenging to see things in context, i.e. the need for renewable energy against the possibilities of developing local jobs, not least in relation to climate. The question is: why does the government not see the need to see the climate communication in the context of an energy and business report, which has been announced to the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e619	There is no doubt that we have some very demanding goals to achieve in several areas in the years to come. And it's quite right, as the representative also says, that using more renewable energy, bringing down our fossil energy use and electrifying more of Norway will be very important for achieving climate goals. But it's not like we don't know anything about this already. We know quite a lot about our expected power needs in the future, where we are today, and what is going on. It has not been many years since the Stortinget dealt with an energy message. It was the first energy message of over 17 years, so I agree that it was time for us to get an energy message. We are constantly getting new analyses that update the image, and I have also announced that I will bring my own big message to the spring that will look at just how we can have more value creation, more jobs and exploit the fantastic potential that lies in our renewable resources. So I really agree with the representative, but I also feel that this is something the government is already taking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e626	Thanks for the answer. The challenge is that when you are in times of crisis and need to change, there may be a greater need to see things in context. My experience is, at least when I'm out, that it's challenging. People, too, do not see the link between the three main areas – energy, climate and industry. I have a follow-up question. Now we are adopting a new framework for future development, but to what extent will those frameworks be based on the judgement of the matters currently under review?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e633	To the first representative, I fully agree that we need to see things in context, and as the years go by, it seems to be becoming more and more important in order to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. So I totally agree with that is very, very important. As far as the other representative is concerned, we are dealing here today with proposals for new policies in the field of wind power. It will not have retroactive effect on concessions that have already been granted. But now, of course, we must also continue to work on what is adopted in Stortinget today. The size has also come up with suggestions other than those contained in the government's notice. In my view, it has become a majority of those proposals, and we shall follow them in a good way. And of course we'll come back to that. However, the changes we are adopting today will not have a retrospective impact on concession proceedings that have taken place in the past or that are under review.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e641	I basically have a simple question. We have, through good cooperation, changed essential parts of the message that we received from the Council of State. We have gone through large parts of the message. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State happy with these changes, and what changes is the Council of State most likely to appreciate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e646	Let me start by thanking you for a nice question. I'll try to answer to the best of my ability. I am very pleased that the majority in the Grand Duchy has been able to gather on many of the proposals that we made in the big news. There are considerable intrusions there. It's a whole new concessional regime that's going to be the future. I think that's very good, and it's good that we've got a majority behind it. I also think that the majority of the Stortinget have negotiated several relatively good adjustments, although I must also say that many of them were also in the Storing Message from before. I believe that we are, for example, had significantly increased the time cycle, with turbine height requirements, etc. So evenly, I am very pleased with the majority who sign up for this matter, and I think that together we have made good changes for the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e651	Today, the power situation is quite different in this country than it was just ten years ago. It has grown a great local commitment to wind power generation, and that is what the centre party we should listen to. In order to bring down the level of conflict, we need to listen to those who are actually affected, and therefore the Central Party has several times proposed that municipalities should have a local veto right to say no. My question to the Council of State is why you don't want to judge it by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e656	I have to start by saying that there are quite a number of parties that have changed their minds about what is going to be Norway's wind power policy, during the last year, but perhaps no one as much as the Center Party. It is therefore possible, in the ultimate sense, to go to the use of a government plan, including what is proposed by the Stortinge today. That being said, it's extremely rare that you use such a type of tool, and I also think you have to be very careful about doing that, to have local anchoring, that it's wild locally, it's very important in these matters, and it's always been. The reason why the government did not originally propose in the big news that wind power policy should be introduced under the Planning and Building Act, for which there is now a majority in the UK, was that energy policy is a national responsibility and a national concern, one must see things in context. I think that is an important principle. Having said that, I'm still very concerned with the local anchoring, and I think we're going to find good solutions to what now has the majority of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e665	It is likely that today there will be unanimity around a few proposals that the Committee has promoted. Once again, the Law on Planning and Building also applies to wind turbines, and there are proposals to ask the government to explore alternatives to providing a guarantee of clean-up at the start-up of wind power plants. My question to the Council of State is whether she can promise that no new wind power applications will be dealt with until these changes are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e670	I have a lot of understanding that this is a question that many people might want answers to, not least the wind power industry itself. There has now been a stop in all concession treatment pending new policies. That's what we've been notifying you before. But it is also natural now that there are changes in the law, that we must work on what is adopted here in the Storting, and come back with it. It is not natural for concession treatments to be resumed until the new legislation is prepared and in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e675	I wanted to start by saying that the Green Party did not put on the Stortinget until 2013, and we have always been against new industries in vulnerable nature, including wind power plants. So then the council can take it with them. This wind power message takes a good step in the right direction despite all the concession conditions. I would like to thank you for that. It is good, as the report states, that natural diversity must be given greater weight. That's good, and it's obviously necessary as well. But the message says very little about how this should happen in practice. My question will therefore be what concrete action the Council of State intends to take in order to strengthen nature monitoring – the quality of it – and to ensure that wind power development does not destroy vulnerable nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e682	I very much agree with the representative that this is a very important consideration, and that is why there is also a lot of space in the Storing Message and is something we have seen that we need to tighten up. We are faced with a lot of difficult dilemmas about getting the renewable energy we need in order to cut emissions, but also about preserving nature. This is going to be more demanding in the years to come, I think, because the need is going to grow. We have to be able to see things in a context. We also know that building wind power, like all other buildings in nature, whether it's road, cabin fields, hotels, etc., also has a cost to nature. What we're actually proposing is to put more emphasis on this. The most important thing in this is the regional treatment, which will give greater opportunity to see things in a larger whole, an overall burden in a regional area. We have also proposed increased requirements for investigations, a more systematic use of feasibility studies and investigation studies and clearer terms set out in the concession, for example. for maximum turbine height. This is a significant tightening that will take more account of the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e691	Governments have called Red's proposal for an independent review of populism and have shown that in 2011, like the rest of Norway, Red wanted more wind power. The difference between Red and the Council of State is that we realize that the expansions have ruined Norwegian nature, and take the consequence of it by saying no to more wind power on land. Of the around 70 wind turbines we have per day, only a few have been tried in court, and we have examples of wind turbines where the impact assessment code has been broken. But these took the state councils out of the review that the ministry itself did this summer, where they have thus only evaluated five facilities. Why does the Council of State not agree with the Redt's proposal for an independent review of whether there have been breaches of rules and laws, as Mr Rogaland has demonstrated in several cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e700	Let me start by saying that it's nice that at least Red is honest that they've changed their mind, but it's not true that none of us have changed their mind. We are here today and have this debate because all the parties in the Great Britain have seen the need to make changes in the direction of wind energy policy. My point of referring to the plan of which the representative Moxnes himself was the author was just to stress that everyone had a rather different view of this ten years ago. If the plan that the representative of Moxnes had been fully followed, we would have had as much wind power in Norway today as we have now. In other words, it is a political responsibility, I mean, for all parties to take the consequences of the policy they themselves have been involved in promoting, even though they may not have been in the Storting, but they have now meant it. So to this independent review, there's a difference in being claiming that something is a crime, and seeing that something is a consequence of a system that has had a more liberal practice, a system that we're now tightening up. The review carried out by the Ministry has been thorough, factual and well-informed in the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e709	With that, the line change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e717	I would like to thank you for the debate so far and for all the good points. I would also like to make it clear from the point of view of the Workers' Party, given the short story of the story to Committee leader Ketil Kjenseth, that it is quite right that the Workers' Party did not want to include, but continues to grant exemptions from the Energy Planning and Building Act – precisely because, as the Council of State was also concerned, energy and energy supply are crucial for security of supply, for the development of renewable jobs and for our further climate challenges. Therefore, we will continue to maintain that the long lines are to be treated under the NVE, with the exceptions that are. But we see that most wind turbines are located in municipalities, and then it's wise, because we need the people with us in the decisions taken along the way. I also want to remind you that it was when the Workers' Party said we should base the Planning and Building Act, that there was a majority in the Stortinget. So then the government parties had the choice to stand outside or participate in the change, and I'm very happy that all the parties have supported it. When you are so concerned about local democracy, it is a little strange that the Left has been at the forefront of the regionally elected level, that they do not support the Workers' Party's proposal that, at the nationally elected regional level, there should also be a greater role in looking at where it is wise to localise future wind power plants, whether we need more wind power plants in relation to local energy supply and opportunities for regional development. We also have a proposal to develop a guide to the Law on Planning and Building, which specifically focuses on nature, in order to ensure that different municipalities have the necessary competence to preserve nature. We are not getting any support for that either. When it comes to solving the proposals, we don't think it's the amount of natural decisions that matter, but we believe that you're already in the position and in the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind, it's very clear that nature should be weighted more heavily than it is today. When it comes to independent investigation, the Storting has decided that the government should take a review, so we'll look at that review before we go for some independent investigation. We have also registered that one case has been brought before the court. It didn't have suspensive effect, so here we really have to look at the realities of the content. With regard to the Greens' proposals, we do not believe that there is a ban on the conclusion of private agreements. What we've been reacting to is the secret team. In fact, private agreements are quite smart, especially in development agreements in the big cities, it has been absolutely necessary to expand infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e736	It blows a strong headwind across the country, and it's not that weird. That's also why we have the case here at all today. And there are two reasons for this strong headwind: it's overrun by nature, and then it's been an overrun of local democracy. I've been around a lot of the country, especially in our coastal strips, and I've met the locals. I have looked at the natural areas that have been built-in, and I have come back quite shut. I've seen huge natural shaves – large areas. If you carefully read the KS report, it is established that approved concessions will mean more land degradation than cities, agglomerations and industrial areas combined in Norway. So there's a lot of areas that we're talking about. I've been told about terrible impact assessments, about miserable biological studies, about fast conclusions, etc. – this must have moved many of the representatives in the room – not to talk about the misery, if any, of the climate budget for the expansion. The NRK has done a fantastic job of digging out questions about greenhouse gas emissions in the construction and excavation of moors both in terms of traffic and in terms of wind power. It is sad to see that Norwegian environmental management is not stronger in development matters. With SV's different sales, this part will get much stronger into the processes, and so it's time. We should like the majority here in the Chamber to get the environmental authorities into the picture to a much greater extent – at all levels. And then to the overrun of municipalities and locals: I've met people with tears in their eyes around. They've been engaged, they feel desperate, and they don't feel heard and respected at all. This has been an ugly side of this concession treatment and the expansion that has taken place, and it is not worth a democratic state. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Two UN panels that warn us, as Mr Haltbrecken mentioned, and the Nature Panel says that wrong land management is the main cause of the loss of natural and species diversity. There must be a lot of people in the wind power industry today who are left with the feeling: Oi, we might have gone too fast. The concession treatment has been so poor that many of the expansions have been a service to the concept of renewable energy in this country. I think a lot of people are thinking about it today, and I also think a lot of the representatives here in the room are going to go into themselves. It may well be that one regrets some of the previous points of view, that one did not wake up earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e753	To wake up earlier, the representative calls for Nävra. We are now cleaning up according to the code that Ola Borten Moe and SV were behind when they were in government. It's okay to sweep for your own door before you're for an ephemeral check on other people's behalf. It leads me so far to the representative Borch's articles entirely introduced today, because when one has little to go with, only increases the volume. It is not unknown that the Center Party is using that tactic, but once again it is cleaning up according to the rules of the Center Party from the last time they actually managed – not just showing off – we are now actually running. We are also discussing another proposal today, namely the proposal that did not really take effect because the Labour Party and the Government Party did not allow the adoption of deferral of the concessions granted until the cases were tried before the courts. It was actually the time at which we could have dealt with a matter, and which would have allowed us to dampen the level of conflict in existing and ongoing developments. The selected Storting unfortunately went away. But then it's at some point in time that the Storting also takes on what one in sum gets. When one hears this wind power debate in isolation, it sounds like most of the parties aren't going to think that we need a lot more new power. But that's what they mean, everyone as one. After all, they will have a space between 10 and 15 TWh only to expand the electrification of Norwegian base – hundreds, if not thousands of new wind turbines. Because the exact same batches that are now trying to give the impression that they are against the development of windmills are against the development of new hydropower, against looking at the old protective plan to restart it, against looking at the possibilities of realising the power they need. They're against water, they're against wind, they're against nuclear power. They are left with one having to import coal power from Europe to electrify a Norwegian socket, if one is to take on seriously what they are actually saying in this debate. It's not like that. The decisions we make here actually have an effect. It would have been natural if one had agreed on the whole consequence of their own policies. We've got it. Wind power expansion is not viable. It has no popular support. It is not possible to continue at the rate that one has been in the last 10–15 years. The consequence of this is that we need to look at which sectors we can reduce our energy consumption. The expansion and electrification of the socket is one such, and hence the Progress Party has taken the consequences of it. And so should the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e766	There's nothing wrong with changing meaning as long as it's in the right direction, said former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. It might be like a talk to several of us after the debate so far today. All energy production affects its environment, and in Norway we have been so lucky to be able to expand energy that has not affected the atmosphere and climate with pollution, precisely because we have large watercourse resources. Their impact has mainly been on the area, the visual and the environment and life in and on these watercourses. But mentioning the degradation of watercourses as a single success will nevertheless make many look red. Conflicts have been a crossroads throughout history. The battle over the Alta expansion creates, for example, continued wounds and fractures, nearly 40 years later. A condition for Norwegian power development that has been a success is that the communities that have to live with the development of themselves have been paid through a rusty tax system. Yes, we have even received our own word for it – ‘power municipalities’. It has been an important part of the contract between the large community and the community that power should be owned nationally, as a Community resource, and that compensation should be granted to those who have intervened in their neighbourhood. The same basic conditions have not been present for wind power. Together with too much time after the concession was granted until the operation was started, there have been changes to e.g.: land use, visual appearance, the height of the project's en route and constant postponements, as well as poor local anchoring and value creation created a massive storm against the projects and this form of energy. Last but not least, the assessments and uncertainties related to the impact on vulnerable nature and the aesthetics of windmills in a raw and external Norwegian nature have created deep conflicts and mistrust of the entire energy policy. The centre party believes that the lack of local influence and influence as well as the lack of understanding of the feelings affected when establishing large-scale wind farms in spectacular natural areas are the cause of the deep and insurmountable level of conflict that has now been linked to wind power across the country. The current exception to wind power from normal planning processes poses major challenges to the rule of law, trust and legitimacy of decisions. Yeah, it's true that the Center Party was involved in turning the policy in that direction, but we've learned along the way. We have learned that communities need to be better represented. Municipalities have solid competence and long experience in dealing with complex planning, construction and land issues. There is nothing in the way that the municipalities can do this. The center party is happy that the setting goes in that direction, but we should like to go further. We believe that local communities in these kinds of cases should have an absolute right of veto linked to a concession in the context of a municipal government decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e781	I think it could have been clarifying both for the municipalities, for us here in this room and for the energy industry in general if the Center Party could solve a couple of things that might seem confusing in the setting that is leading. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and of the Centre believe that exemptions from the Law on Planning and Building must be passed on to large lines and hydroelectric power plants, so that only wind power plants are included in the Law on Planning and Building. They are the subject of such a proposal for a decision. At the same time, they are in another proposal asking the government to come back to the Storting and have compulsory energy facilities that are no longer exempt from the regulatory obligation. This also includes hydropower and grids. Power lines are a vital part of the Norwegian power system and are crucial for security of supply. It touches many municipalities and crosses several municipalities. The same applies also to hydropower, and in this way it may be necessary for this to be incorporated into the Law on Planning and Building and to be evaluated by the individual municipality. There are large plants. If such a decision were to be reviewed, large parts of District Norway, waiting to deploy transmission capacity, would lose potential potential industrial workplaces because one cannot produce the necessary infrastructure as efficiently as one does today. I think it might be appropriate to have an explanation from the Center Party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e794	There are several debates in the debate here, and I hear the Labour Party representative, Ruth Grung, invite to a debate on future renewables. Now wind has contributed to part of it, it's been built out, and as Councillor Tina Bru says, 10 pst is coming. by the power supply from wind. Today, we produce 150 TWh of pure renewables in Norway and are by far the largest in Europe. We're not going to be able to use everything, and there's currently no urgent need for new renewables in the next ten years. In addition, digitisation is coming upon us, and we need to spend a lot of time in Norway now. We're very far ahead, we're perhaps the most digitized country in Europe when it's going to use the energy we already have, more sensible. With regard to the plan that is requested, I do not see the great need to have an overall plan now, because this needs to be done in many areas, and in particular, digitisation is a great opportunity for Norway. The fact that we can store electricity in the car batteries, in the electric cars, is the next big thing, but also that we can have battery in the garage in addition to what we have in the car. Then the representative asks Grung from the Workers' Party why the Left is no longer involved. The government parties negotiated seven proposals with the Progress Party. They've all gone into it, so we did a considerable job before the others got into it, and it was important, among other things. to give the municipalities power from the start to the end of the process. They really didn't have that much power. The debate that the Central Party is asking for here, about a veto right, it falls with the new regime. That power gets one from the start, and concession matters can be denied much faster with the new regime than with today's. So that veto right will actually get the municipalities with the new regime. There is also a climate and natural calculator that Scotland has developed. Norway is on the move, it's mentioned in the message, we have to do a bigger job with it. The government should also do a job of setting a price on nature in some way. There will be a big debate in the future, and that is part of this debate. Yes, the representative Nävra, we've been looking at wind power plants, where I've been wondering if I'm in a hangar or if I'm in a wind power plant. For the purposes of monitoring and supervision of those intended to map and find red-listed species, e.g., the State shall check those operators more closely and more closely. Samonic interests are tightened up, they have a special duty to do better, and also the cleanup after the concession expires after 25 years. So the regional actors are much more involved than they've been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e813	I want to join all those who have pointed out that this has been both a good process and a good debate. And I think we should be happy about that. There is now a completely necessary price adjustment in line with the input and engagement we have seen out there. Substantial emphasis is placed on nature. Considerable emphasis is placed on local involvement. Concession policy is tightened in relation to both the time that can go from concession to concession, and the extent to which deviations can be permitted. This course adjustment is correct and sensible, and it is wise to learn along the way. I also want to stress that what we're getting here now, and the rather broad consensus that, after all, is, with some shades, marked itself as a quite sharp difference from much of the debate we're meeting out there, where there have been many who have engaged in such a way that you either have to be totally or completely opposed, and where there are no other points of view, all points of view need to be reversed in the same direction. That's the way this case is, like with a lot of things, that it's not always suitable, because we're going to have to balance it. All renewables require space, as has been said – hydropower requires space, solar cells require space, wind power requires space. We are going to need more renewable energy, which is why the Labour Party is concerned that we want a good debate on future power needs in the long term in Norway. We're going to drive new things with electricity, we're going to reindustrialize Norway with pure force, and we're going to replace a large fossil share that we actually have in our own country. Then we need a debate that takes all of these factors into account at the same time, and that is getting appropriate balances that are important. I believe that we have to a great extent made clear in this process, and that most of us have managed to refrain from the temptation to rely on the slightly simplified reasoning that has occasionally been emboldened by the debate out there. There's nothing wrong with the strong commitment, but when you -- here I actually agree with the Council of State, and want to say that -- turn your aggression against what you see as a misguided policy, which may well be wrong, against loyal bureaucrats in the government, against local people elected, against worksmen or municipal government representatives, as if they were to represent the hell themselves, it's something serious going on, and I encourage everyone involved in this debate to reflect a little about how that tone has turned out in the debate. That is why I am pleased that so many here realise that we need to take into account both local participation, climate – but also nature – and an understanding of where Norway should go in the longer term. Norway is a country that has been built on clean energy, and so do we in the future. Wind power is going to be part of it, but then we have to know how to manage it the wisest possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e824	On a day like today, it may be worth looking back in history and looking back at Norwegian environmental history. Norwegian environmental history has been marked by conflicts in energy development over all those years. It was the concerns of our beautiful footfalls around the beginning of the 1900s that led to the formation of what is today the Nature Conservation Association. In addition to the 1960s and 1970s, the battle around the hydroelectric expansions in Norway was great, both in Mardøla, where we got the first civil disobedience actions for Norwegian nature 50 years ago, in 1970, and the fight against the expansion of the Alta-Cautokeino river, which peaked in 1981. There has also been a dispute about the expansion of nuclear power, about gas power and now wind power. All these battles have led to great improvements for the environment in Norway. There's a reason we don't have any nuclear power plant in Norway -- it was the great popular resistance to it at the end of the 1970s. There's a reason why we've protected nearly 400 watercourses from power development -- that's the strong commitment to watercourse development. And there's a reason why the gas power plant that was planned and that was traveling on Kårstø in Rogaland is now disassembled – because you didn't see any use for it. All these environmental struggles have led to important changes, and it will also lead to this case. We should have wished today from SV's side that we had a stronger protection around nature. We would like the voice of nature to be better heard in the future, because we could have a change in the law that meant that those who want greater expansions in Norwegian nature must also apply to the environmental authorities for such a permit. Unfortunately, that proposal does not get a majority today, but I believe that such a proposal could have a majority in the future, as a result of which many are currently fighting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e833	The Government proposes that more emphasis be placed on nature and nature values, and what is contained as proposals is a series of stringent requirements for those considering the establishment of wind power on land. The fact that local authorities may say no to the establishment of wind power in the early stages of the process is both correct and important. Right has long been clear that it should be a local municipal wish if windmills are to be established in their own municipality. This was also pointed out by my colleagues in the previous consideration of the changes in the Planning and Building Act. The changes made in 2008, under the Central Party and the Workers' Party's government, led to the plan and building law no longer leading the process of wind power. Our government has been particularly restrictive in using government plans or in any other way setting aside local and municipal decisions. That's good. In future concession awards, it is important that one ensures that one has good regional planning on the ground. It has been absolutely necessary to clean up the concession process when it comes to wind power, and the government also had as its starting point to bring the level of conflict down and clean up. What they've got now is good. It's important that we further in the future get a great commitment around renewables in a totality. This shows the debate both locally and centrally that we can now have good prospects for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e844	Resistance to wind power on land is high and increasing in many places in Norway. It's completely understandable. People have experienced being overrun – one has not been listened to. A person experiences a built-in nature, and it does not get any significant compensation back, but on the contrary, the electricity price appears to increase because the flow is to be sent out of the country in the form of ever-new export cables. I record that the government parties and the Progress Party are the most busy talking about, not the snow that fell last year, nor the snow that fell in the past, but the snow that fell 10–15 years ago. But we have to discuss the current reality in which people stand, and it is under today's majority – consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party – that the massive resistance to wind power has spread around Norway. There is cause for concern when the Council of State in a row confirms that communities around Norway can continue to be overcome in wind power cases. There's no veto for the communities in here. Even more worrying is the fact that the government parties and the Progress Party do not wish to be part of the Centre Party’s proposal that local communities and stakeholder organisations be informed about potential development projects at an early stage. So on top of that, the government parties and the Progress Party will not be on a new basis in the Energy Act where it should read: «Concession may be granted only if the benefit of the measure clearly exceeds the damage and disadvantages of the public and private interests affected.» It's just this one has to learn from. If one is to be given a boost in the development of new energy in Norway, one must take care to bring the communities on board. One must ensure that communities are vetoed, and one must be careful to weigh the interests of both private and common interests in such a way as has been suggested, inter alia. The page of the centre party of the setting. Unfortunately, I am afraid, although some things are going in the right direction – there has been a massive external pressure that helps policy to move in the right direction – that there will still be major conflicts related to wind power generation in Norway, because one is not willing to clean up properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e861	Unfortunately, I have to answer the committee chairman. That's exactly what he's saying, that the message says that we don't need new power in the next ten years. But also here the changes happen quickly. There's a world outside the Oslo area. Westland, which produces 25 pst. of renewable energy, there is no real energy to establish new activities. Statnet has said no to all new industrial projects and business start-ups in the last year because they lack transmission capacity. It takes five to ten years to expand, and then it might have been more sensible to install some industrial wind turbines on Mongstad industrial base when you're shutting down the gas plant than to stop all regional development in the mountain area. The same thing I think is true of Haugaland, parts of Northernland, etc. Such a review and presentation of a total challenge to the coherence between energy needs for industry and climate, at both national and regional level, believes that the Workers' Party is absolutely necessary. Then we got a little visit because we have gone into the proposals of the government parties. That's absolutely right. The working party is a red control party, and in order to ensure broad anchoring and predictability we do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e868	The representative Gegelsvik was busy talking about the massive resistance to wind power happening on our guard. That's exactly right, but we've also taken the consequences of that. Once again, that's why we're here today and are discussing a big message that this government has put forward about tightening up this system. But the massive resistance is not a result of this government's policy. It is a result of the central party's policy and the central party's policy when they had the oil and energy minister under the red-green government. Just to refresh the memory, it may be worth recalling that in 2009, when the then oil and energy minister Terje Riis-Johansen gave the concession to build one of the most controversial wind power projects we now have, Haram wind power plant, he said that this “is an important step in the investment in renewable energy.” He pointed out that the wind conditions on the island were good, and that the plant was an important contribution to increasing security of supply in Norway. Also to another very controversial project, Tysvær, it was handed out concession by Terje Riis-Johansen, in 2008. The reason was that he was ‘very busy speeding up the development of renewable energy’. We have talked a lot about today's debate in that it is allowed to change meaning. Of course, change your mind. There are several people in this room who have done – almost everyone in this room, I would say, have changed their mind. What is the problem is so happy to overlook and not be willing to take the consequences of what you have thought before, to reconcile in a debate that has become very hard and very demanding. So there's a lot of talk about the significance of municipal veto. Last year almost no parties wanted municipal veto. I've been watching the recording from the Zero debate last year, and then I think almost all of the parties that were involved in that debate, said no, we don't need a municipal veto. But now the municipalities get practically municipal veto. But what problem is it really solving? Not in any of the most controversial cases have the municipalities been overrun, either with a government plan or that they have pussiness through a concession against the will of the municipalities. In almost all cases, perhaps with the exception of a single case throughout Norway, there has been a municipal opening up around the concession. And that's not so nice, because it was a crazy policy. There were strong political signals, not least from this house and from the government at the time that we wanted more renewable energy deployment, not least wind power. The centre party was given the green certificates, a collaboration with Sweden, which initially only led Norwegian electricity customers to pay money to build wind power in Sweden. And then, a few years ago, our government changed the depreciation rules on wind power to get more expansion in Norway. And we got that. Again, we have a common responsibility. The debate has become very hard. We have to do something about it. And we are now doing that together on policy, because, after all, there is quite a consensus about the political lines here today – that is good. Now we're on our way to getting a better debate and a better tone. But now the word change has to follow. Together, we have to take responsibility for why we ended up here, and point out the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e883	Let me first also thank you for the good cooperation we have had in the Committee on this matter. The various parties actually agree on many comments, but when you hear the debate, there seems to be a great conflict in this area. The truth is that the agreement that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have concluded with the Advance Party is considered to be a dream agreement for the other parties. That is what we hear in this debate. It is the civil side that has led in this. And how did it begin? It started with the government council Tina Bru delivering a message to this house that cleaned up the concession system. The only thing we heard from the left was reading and playing. Concrete policies, on the other hand, were very difficult to deal with. And that's what's normal. It's impossible to figure out what the Workers' Party means, about until we sit and vote in the main hall. With this message it is cleared up in the concession system, local democracy is strengthened, and a strengthening of local democracy is also the main point of the good agreement we now have with the Progress Party. The representative of Grung was up here and mentioned regional processes and that the government parties are, as well, against it. Then you have to ask: Has the representative Grung opened the message, or has it dusted down during serious reports on the development of the Workers' Party's opinion polls? Regional processes are one of the main points of the Storing Message that Tina Bru delivered to Stortinget. So to the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik: I would like to remind you that when Statekraft laid aside the plans for investment in Fosen in Trundellag in 2015, Marit Arnstad went out and said it was unsustainable if Statkraft would rather invest abroad than build wind power in Norway. And that's just a few years ago. The Socialist Left Party, which has been high and dark on the pulpit today, was afraid that the train had gone for wind power in Norway. This debate has changed – yes, in a short time – but it is the bourgeois majority, and the government parties, who have taken the consequences and implement and propose new policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e900	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e905	That is an explanation of vote. SV is going to vote against proposal No. 34, from Red, and it is justified that it also puts an end to smaller wind turbines, both farm mills and industrialised areas. So that's what we're going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e910	It's registered. The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e917	The tightening up we are now doing in the concession law for the future, the deadline that we have set for 31 December for the concessions given, together with the extension of the green certificates to 2021, and the reversal of the depreciation code, which is also in the agreement with the Progress Party, will now be a longer period in which no concessions for new wind power development are actually granted in Norway. And those who are coming are going to be very good for green industry. There's going to be less loss of nature, and we want a climate dimension, which is important. Then I have to take the representative of Moxnes from Red a little visit, because I fully agree when the Council of State characterises it as populist with an examination. Had Red – and SV – really meant that you should stop some concessions, they should have added a billion to their government budget proposals for 2021. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] None of those parties have, and they don't mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e924	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e929	It is good with a little temperature and a little debate in the storeroom, and then it is certainly right to answer the claims made by the representative Stefan Heggelund. It may be because I speak mountain language, but I think we were very clear after the group meetings in the Workers' Party, that the Workers' Party was early out saying that we wanted to lay down the Law on Planning and Building. And then there was also a majority in the Storting, because we have participated in a number of debates, and we have also got – clearly – that the Progress Party was of the same opinion. And in terms of regional: if he reads the setting, he sees that the Workers' Party thinks it's very good with the regional. But there is the NVE and the County that have the main role, while we believe that the elected level represented by the county should have a greater role in that company to ensure regional anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e936	You'll want to continue the debate after hearing the last speeches, but I'm going to make a little explanation of vote from the Central Party. We will subsidiaryly support VI and VII. We will also support proposal No. 5 in the vote, a proposal from the Labour Party, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens. In addition, we will support some of the proposals from Red. Several of the proposals from Red are good, but we believe that our own proposals and comments in the vote are better. But we will support the proposal No. 37, 39, 40 and 47.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e943	It's registered. Several have not asked to speak on the matter. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e963	The President will state that proposal No. 5, from Red, has been submitted within the deadline, but was published late due to technical problems. At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e972	We are dealing with a representative proposal from the Red on the legal consequences of breaches of law, rules and contract, and Red is promoting three proposals in the document. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre, the SV and the Christian People's Party, point to the importance of public funds being used for the benefit of the Community, and the majority point to the importance that when public resources are facilitated and partly or completely used on construction or other infrastructure, they must also benefit the public. The same majority emphasises that there are today consequences of breach of contract, for example: in the form of cessations of State aid, repayment requirements, etc. This majority also suggests that in today’s legislation there is the possibility of police reporting matters that are believed to be criminal, and that this is investigated and, where appropriate, brought to justice. A second majority – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV – also refers to letters from Minister of Industry Iselin Nybø, where it it shall be stated as follows: «More municipalities sold properties at lower prices than market prices in order to achieve the objective of full childcare coverage. Some municipalities have pre-empted the sale of the property as a condition of sale. It is within the jurisdiction of the municipality to decide whether such conditions should be included in transfers of property.» The same parties also refer to answers from the Minister for Industry, where the following is also stated: ‘I can also inform you that the Ministry of Knowledge has, among other things, sent a proposal for a regulation on the obligation to notify the sale and other restructuring of activities engaged in approved kindergartens. Such a provision would oblige the nursery to notify the supervisory authority and the municipality of the sale and other significant restructuring of its business. The aim is to provide the supervisory authority and the municipality with better control of the private kindergartens. It will also provide the supervisory authority with a better opportunity to examine such restructuring in more detail if there are grounds for doing so.’;» Then the Workers' Party, together with the Center Party and SV, has three proposals on the matter, and they are addressed. I will also draw attention to the fact that the Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e991	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e996	My children are adults now, but I am convinced that the best investment we made in our family when they were young was to join a parent group in our neighborhood who established and built a kindergarten in the community. It gave us a good, safe babysitting and a good network of parents in the neighborhood. In retrospect, the kindergarten we built has ensured hundreds of children a similar offer over the nearly 30 years that has gone by, and both price and quality have been fully competitive with the municipal offer. The freedom we had to build and run kindergarten was gold worth to us – not in economics, but in security for our children and the relationships we established in the community of which we became part. And there's opportunities we're going to fence about. However, private actors shall be a grant and an instrument that, together with the public actors, shall ensure the welfare services of society demand and depend on. They shall also contribute to the best possible well-being for each crown used. We agree. In the Right, we are committed to ensuring that both establishment, operation, investment and real estate services or sales are of course to comply with the applicable law at all times, and there is a great responsibility on the public authorities to follow up and ensure that the contracts concluded with private operators are durable and sound and that they are followed up loyally by the provider. I am not so happy with the use of the word ‘welfare profitors’. It has almost stamped the entire private part of our welfare service providers, and it will be wrong. But I agree that public oversight of the private part of the welfare service must be both adequate and good. Sectoral legislation regulating the penalties applied between provider and municipality must be effective and, of course, offences must be followed up. That's what it takes for the system to work and for us all to have faith in it. I am pleased with the public body that was set up and that has now mapped out the cash flows in publicly funded welfare services. They presented their report today. We need to ensure that the services provided are both high-quality and contribute to a socio-economic resource use. That is why I look forward to a thorough review of the report. I am counting on it to help provide us with a basis for assessing whether, and where, necessary changes are needed in the follow-up to the public-funded welfare services in the various sectors. And then we're going to draw more conclusions gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1011	Let me first stress that the Centre Party supports the ideal sector, and believes that small and individual private kindergartens and non-commercial and non-profit-driven kindergartens are a good and an important complement to the public service provision. I would like to stress that there is still a need to have better regulation and, not least, the management of the nursery sector, in order to ensure the scale, quality and not least the benefit of government grants to our young people. At the same time, it is important to have predictable framework conditions. The kindergarten sector has developed a lot in recent years, and this has resulted in some challenges that today’s legislation has not taken into account. Work is under way, including: by the government, which will look at a number of these issues, and the welfare service committee recently presented its recommendations. It was too much today. Furthermore, the proposal addresses a wide range of issues aimed at regulating the kindergarten sector. Some of them go very far, and some don't go that far. I think we're going to have the opportunity to debate this on the basis of the sample's report and recommendations for several rounds in the future. It is important to say that I believe that the ideal wish is that the profit should not necessarily be too high, but that you have an orderly relationship for those who provide a service that the public has requested. There are now a number of legislation that allows municipalities, and insofar as the county councils, to regulate matters when selling land and entering into contracts. These conditions are regulated by legislation other than the Kindergarten Act, but this does not mean that municipalities should not be aware of them. The central party believes that municipalities should assess, on a general basis, for example: to disclose indebtedness when selling property for different purposes, including kindergarten. Let me finally say that the Centre Party and SV have promoted a proposal that refers to, among other things. how the measurement of the grants to private kindergartens is calculated. We have done so with the background of the feedback coming from all over the country, which shows that the changes proposed by the government in 2015 have at least some structural content in them that could leave the municipalities with the most heavy-powered kindergartens, the kindergartens that have particularly resource-intensive kids, and that need an extra effort. We're going to do that, but it's necessary to have a balanced approach. With that, I'm going to deal with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1028	The representative of Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1033	First, I would like to thank the proposer for an important proposal. The representative Norunn Benestad was up and talking about how it was before, and I remember that too, and I've been working in kindergarten for many years. There were many small parent-run and ideal kindergartens, and it was because the municipalities did not take responsibility and built up kindergartens before SV got in place the nursery agreement in Stortinget. But after that, there have been major changes. It is not these small, orphaned, ideal kindergartens that are the majority now; they are a tiny minority. What's come in is the big international groups that are pure investment and property companies, so here's an understanding of the reality that I think the government is missing. What might distinguish the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is that on the left-hand side we know that it pays to own, that it gives security. Therefore, we believe that we should own plots together in the municipalities, and that it is foolish to sell away land and jobs that we own. It's stupid to sell away property, because it's profitable, and that's what investors know. How to make money in kindergartens? The answer is property. It has been: cheap and free plots, safe, public funding, high rents and many different corporate structures where dividends are not collected, but different types of group contributions. Finally, it is sales – to international financial funds. Yes, I hear there are people who don't like the word ‘welfare profitors’, but that's what this is about, and there are people who try to stick it on that someone thinks it's about ideal or parental kindergartens. It's simply not true. What we're talking about are these big companies. Therefore, it is important to make both the municipal sector and the public sector understand that ownership is a trick. Don't sell, build the sea, drive the sea! And when someone has acquired property and got it cheaply from the public, you have to secure the right to buy back, and at a lower price, and you have to put in place legislation that is similar to what we have today for the private schools. It is completely impossible to understand why there should be one code for private schools and dividends and one code for kindergartens. It's completely unreasonable, because it's the exact same thing, and it's the same tax money. I'm a very happy taxpayer, but I get pretty angry if my tax dollars are used for this. The tax money we pay for kindergartens is going to kindergartens. What we pay for health and care should go to health and care, and that is our duty to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1046	If anyone thought the president was running and nodding because she took a position on Karin Andersen's posts, it wasn't. She nodded acknowledging that the Bears Moxnes were wearing a jacket.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1051	So today we got the report from the welfare service committee. State Council Nybø claims the report shows that there is no so-called super-profit in welfare, but that is wrong. The sample says the opposite: they can't rule out super-profit in well-being. Either there's something wrong with Nybø's reading skills, or there's a politically motivated misreading of the report. We might get an answer to that in the lines afterwards. We want and believe that public-funded well-being should be there to serve the population, not to let some welfare profiters make money. We know that billions of profits in commercial companies are billions of losses of money that would go to well-being. It's either a superprofit or not. In addition, the committee writes about ‘hidden value transfers through overpriced consideration of goods and services sold by an owner, or another group company, to the company’, inter alia. «in the case of the rental of premises from own property companies», and that it may be «hard to prevent hidden transfer of value». [[...]] Red jobs in order for companies for commercial purposes not to provide welfare services, but, as long as they exist, violations of laws, regulations and contracts must be met with much clearer sanctions than they are today. If a person receives Nav support of around NOK 100000 without having a claim, he/she could be punished with fines and prisons. Infringement of the new EU Data Protection Regulation, GDPR, may impose fines of up to 4 p.m. the turnover of the company, but the unlawful collection of money from well-being often has no consequences other than having to pay back what has been defrauded from the community. Maybe you lose a contract. We saw it with the company Akademiet, who was cheating on money to go to the best of the students. Consequence: Pay back what you have stolen. Nothing else. They did not lose the state aid they were allowed to operate. We have seen the same thing when Norlandia has bypassed the local authorities' right to purchase properties, kindergartens, which they would have allowed the municipalities to have a chance to buy back, which in their time they were given free or heavily subsidized by the community. When they cheat around laws and regulations, there are no consequences for the billionaires who own the company. Some parties are so-called ‘tough on crime’, but never against the welfare professionals. There is now a need for effective and accurate penalties for breaches of the law and contractual relationship with the public with the Community's common tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1066	Following the 2003 kindergarten agreement, municipalities had to build up considerably more capacity to offer kindergarten facilities to all those who had the right place. Some municipalities chose to sell land at a lower price than the market price, in order to provide incentives to private people to build kindergartens. It has been an effective tool. The kindergarten sector is now almost fully developed in large parts of the country. The municipality determines which agreements you wish to enter into, and what conditions you wish to impose, for example: the right to purchase, as proposed by the representative, shall be governed by law. The government is committed to providing a good framework for municipalities to carry out their tasks, but there must also be room for municipal autonomy. The government is committed to having clear and sound legislation to ensure that government grants and parental payments benefit young children in kindergarten. The Barnhage Act provides, inter alia: the requirement to trade in related goods subject to market conditions. This means that in the case of leases concluded between parties having a community of interests, the parties must be able to demonstrate that the rentals are determined on market terms. It prevents the extraction of disproportionately high gains. The government is also following up consultations on the obligation to notify sales, closures and other restructurings in private kindergartens. It will provide municipalities and supervisory authorities with better control and opportunity to follow up on changes in the sector and that they do so in line with the requirements. The most common penalties provided for in the Welfare Services Code are correction or time-limited or permanent closure under certain conditions. Such penalties are also common in contractual terms. Fines may also be agreed upon in the event of a breach of contract. Breaks are often followed up by dialogue with the private actor, even under the authority of other sanctions, because it can be more effective to bring about changes. It also affects users to a lesser extent than the closure of a nursing home or kindergarten. Finally, I would like to say, as several representatives have been involved, that today's report from the welfare services committee has been presented. The committee has dealt with several of the questions up to today’s discussion. They propose inter alia: changing the system of funding for kindergartens and providing more flexibility for municipalities than they currently have. I will send the report to the hearing, and I look forward to both the hearing replies we will receive and the debate that comes after.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1089	The Council of State was concerned that she should send out the proposal of the Welfare Service Committee at the hearing, but the letter to the Committee also states that, among other things, the Ministry of Knowledge should: has sent to the hearing a proposal for regulation on the obligation to notify sales and other restructuring of activities engaged in approved kindergartens, such as: My simple question is, When can the Storting expect these matters to be dealt with? Can we have them before the sun turns next time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1096	That's right, that the representative is saying that there's necessarily a little bit of parallel running here. I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Knowledge is working on what they are responsible for, while other departments are working on their fields. The welfare service committee has seen a wide range, not just in the kindergarten sector. We are now submitting the report to the hearing. It's a big and thick report. There should, of course, be a normal consultation period on it. Then we have to decide on it afterwards. We have to see what comes in from the hearings. I got it last night, and it was presented today, so I also need some time to get into it properly. But the Storting must be safe and sound in its handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1103	The reason why the Council of State is here today is, of course, that this is about the legislation that finances the private part of the kindergarten we have. Although it may not be directly the matter of the Council of State, I wonder what is the government's idea about the funding system we have, which could lead to different ways of financing what is in public ownership and operation, and what is in private, especially with regard to the legislation on subsidies to private kindergartens. That's what's the funding base for the private kindergartens. I showed in my post the change that the government proposed in 2015, where it had previously been possible to exempt part of the most cost-intensive kindergartens from the average price, which is what they privately finance their services at. Does the government not see the need to look at different parts of the legislation on how to calculate the average price of the part financed by the private sector? Does the Council of State consider it appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1108	It is not certain that I fully understood the question, and it may well be that the representative gets a better answer if he asks it to the Minister of Knowledge. But the legislation is constantly working on it in general. What the welfare service committee has been looking at is, first of all, looking at some super-profit in these welfare services. They have a number of proposals relating to kindergartens in particular, which focus on funding and the possibilities local authorities have to regulate in the long term whether it is the public or private kindergartens they should have most of, to a greater extent than today, when they cannot enter and reduce private activity. We also see that there have been some sales related to property that have given good returns, but the difference in, for example, school and kindergarten are that, in the case of kindergarten, there is a much larger proportion of private activity than on the school side. It will have far greater consequences if we don't allow some degree of profit there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1115	The councils were talking about what I was wondering, so how to calculate the average price. I look forward to the debate that is coming forward, because it affects how private people can finance their services. The second question raised by the case concerns how the public should be able to handle pre-emption and reporting obligations when selling property from the public to the private, regardless of whether it is for private nursery or entirely other activities. It could be to doctors' offices, industrial parks and a lot more. What are the government's thoughts about what means you have today to publish and regulate it, and does the government see that perhaps you should consider tightening up these possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1124	I believe that the issue raised by the representative is the largest in the kindergarten area, because we were in a situation where the Stortinget decided – by a broad majority – that we should have full kindergarten coverage. I was a municipal politician myself at that time, and in order to do so we had to mobilize all the good forces that wanted to contribute. A large number of kindergartens were built in a short time, and a large proportion of the kindergarten sector has been seen by private individuals. Individual tatters have had a good profit on the sale of nursery property. Many got cheap plots, some didn't even have clauses attached to it. Some of the sales we see are land sold at a lower price than the market price, to build kindergartens. The Welfare Service Committee has proposed that we look into whether such sales can constitute some form of unlawful State aid to commercial real estate companies and not to economic or family activities. It will be part of the consultation round that will now take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1131	When it is possible to become billionaires in kindergartens in Norway, there is super-profit — there can be no discussion. But what I want to ask the Council of State is this with sanctions and reactions to crime. It's quite right, as the representative of Moxnes said in his statement, that there's quite a difference between how we deal with the violation of the rules in this area and how to do it in other areas. It's public money, all of it, so to say it like this, one steal is no better than the other. For this reason, there is a question of the government and the Minister of Industry's view of the unfairness of the fact that some people who don't get the wrong money should have lower penalties because they're doing business, and higher penalties because it's a social measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1136	First of all, I think you have to separate a little bit from the profit they're left with. The word ‘super-profit’ is often used in these debates. It is absolutely right that someone has made good money, especially on property. As I was in a previous line, the sample now suggests that we take a closer look at it. At the same time, the sample has not found that there is widespread super-profit in the welfare services sectors. It does not exclude that there can be a further return beyond what is normal return, but as long as we have private operators in an area, we must also accept that there is a return on the money they put in. If not, it would pay more to put the money right in the bank than actually to do business. It is true that the representative says: today there are penalties for infringements. It is mainly correction or total or partial closure of the establishment. But now we are also sending this report to the hearing, with the proposals that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1143	The sample writes the following: ‘The majority does not preclude the realisation of more returns in addition to normal returns in the various welfare sectors [[Superprofit]] [[...]] So today, the Council of State is pinning on VG: ‘Not super-profit in private welfare’. How is the conclusion of the sample related to the politically motivated misreading of the sample by the Council of State? That's the one. The second question is that the sample recommends addressing the problem of profit from orphanage property and its legal basis, namely to consider ‘if profits from the sale of these properties must be considered as unlawful public support to a commercial real estate activity’. The second question is: what does the government intend to do with this proposal from the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1162	It is said that the welfare service committee report is read with politically motivated misreading. There are questions about who is involved in politically motivated misreading, because although the sample does not exclude the realization of more returns in addition to normal returns, they have not found extensive super-profit in the welfare services sector. We will certainly have to discuss this up and down, but as long as we have private actors in these sectors – and I think we should have private posts in the welfare services sector as well – we must accept that they have a return on it, because if no one wants to be in that sector. Then they'll put the money in the bank, and that's not necessarily good for us in the long term. With regard to the proposal to consider whether such sales could constitute some form of unlawful State aid, we will send it to the hearing together with the rest of the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1172	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1179	It might be interesting to have a debate with the Minister of Industry on how to get those who have money to invest to invest in what is most important in the future. It might not be any further investment in property, which is what gives super return in these matters. There is no doubt that this has happened. If someone puts their money in the bank, they should probably be lent back to other businesses. SV believes it is much more important that we now manage to channel private capital into the green shift, put in place new green industry and jobs, and that the public should largely deal with the welfare tasks of the sea, in cooperation with the non-profit sector. I think it's important to stress it, and that's why the first proposal is about properties, which is what you've taken out super-profits on, how it's been handled both by municipalities and partly by the state, where you're eager to sell out and don't see that this is a common value it's important to take care of. I think it's not just ideological disagreement here, I think it's also an unwillingness to see that here you handle both the public and community property and what we pay out, in a way that shouldn't continue. Because it makes it expensive, because we lose a lot of money when we don't care for the community better than this. I also look forward to reading the report from this sample. Of course, I haven't been able to read it all yet. Then I will also notify that SV is going to vote for the solution that has been promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1188	I should perhaps take up the Red's proposal, so we can vote on it. Then it's all right with the record. Governments are wondering who is involved in politically motivated misreading. Well, I've quoted the majority in the sample, what they write in black in their report, namely: ‘The majority therefore does not preclude the realisation of more returns in addition to normal returns by actors in the various welfare sectors.’ [[Superprofit]] Now it should be said that Red is against the commercial ones, even if it is a so-called normal profit that is taken out. If it only takes 1 billion. kr away from the kindergartens, away from the good children, every year in so-called normal profit to these commercial companies, is Red against it. This money is taken away from the children – our tax money granted for the benefit of children – or from the protection of children or from the elderly who are in need of care. We're also opposed to whether it's so-called normal profit. So yes, we want a profit-free well-being like the majority of the population. There are a majority in all the parties on the left, far into the Christian People's Party, for profit-free well-being. That doesn't mean, as the Left always says in every debate, public monopoly. No, we have had private ideal actors in Norway since before the welfare state came. It's these actors, these private fires, the ideals, who are squandered by the fact that the big commercial groups come in with billions in their backs. They push over the ideal private ones, submit to them, buy up and monopolise the market, so that a few difficult commercial welfare profit companies remain. We see it in babysitting, in kindergartens and in the care of the elderly. That is the consequence of the policy that the Left so nicely talks about, which is about giving more diversity and more foundations. It is monopoly on the hands of commercial large companies that is the consequence of this proposal. What we want is to build on Norwegian tradition, where, together with the private ideal actors, the public provides well-being for one single purpose, namely to ensure the best possible services for users of services. Then it makes sense that if all the money goes unabated to ensure that the children have the best possible offer in the nursery or in child care, in the care of the elderly or where it should be, you do not take the money out. Whether it's super profit or just ordinary profit, it makes sense to think that the more that is used for the benefit of the users, the better it gets. That is the purpose of our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1204	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1209	Private service providers make an important contribution in many different services in municipalities, including those related to kindergartens. In fact, before health services make up the largest part, it appears in the treatment of the health care message. These are service providers that provide important services and are a good complement to community services. What the selection is pointing to and clarifying today is not a question of superprofit once and for all. One of the most important conclusions, I think, on the contrary, is that there's a missing number base. It is weak, and for the future, it should be much easier to carry out monitoring and analysis of private providers of publicly funded welfare services. Maybe there's a little bit of the problem here. I think that the debate on 'welfare profitors', which is a terrible word, has been an ideological debate with a lack of knowledge. That's the biggest problem. This is very unfair, and I'm looking forward to making use of the work that the selection has now done. A comprehensive selection suggests that action is taken to increase transparency on ownership, organisation and economics of private actors. I think that's important, but at the same time it's important that we improve this when it applies to our local authorities' own direct services as well. I look forward to the signaled hearing and look forward to a good debate on important services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1218	I took the floor for a brief clarification. There is a proposal here that is promoted by the Workers' Party and SV, which none of the parties have really commented on anything further in the vote, so I thought at least I should do it from the pulpit. The proposal is that the Workers' Party and SV want a funding system for private kindergartens that gives municipalities greater opportunity to regulate the kindergarten sector. Last week, Stortinget Innst was treated. 63 S for 2020–2021, where one really discussed some of the same content, but where, among other things, the difference. the allocation possibilities for municipalities to ensure a decentralised childcare structure and an adaptation of the overall needs of the municipality. Let me say that there is a very big difference in legislation that allows municipalities to make a balanced allocation, and that you have a funding system to put in place. For municipalities such as: Putting down a local municipal kindergarten, you'll have a funding system that won't allow you to set up a local, let's say family run, kindergarten. For the centre party, I would like to point out that we were in favour of the proposal concerning the regulatory authority related to the total capacity in the municipalities, the other week in the Innst. 63 S for 2020-2021, but we do not want to be part of this that is about having a funding system, because it goes much further, even though the intention is partly the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1227	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1232	To the right, it seems to have fallen with the word ‘welfare profitor’. But it's just a description of the consequences of the policy that the Right stands for and allows: that heavy commercial companies get to build billions of wealth on welfare money granted by the community, and that money that would have gone to ensure vulnerable children's protection an optimal offer, to quality in kindergartens and to caring elderly people, instead goes to the private enrichment of welfare professionals. It's no wonder that it's hard to track the cash flows, because it also says the sample itself: it's been very resource-intensive, they say, and that's because these welfare professionals have hard commercial groups split up into dozens of sub-companies that run complicated internal pricing using the best business lawyers in the country, just to get the most out of money by going around the system, even through pure fraud. So it's hard as long as we have them. Therefore, they should be out of well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1239	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1244	The fact that the Right does not like the word ‘welfare profitor’ says something about what kind of ideological stand they have, and that this is an ideological debate, where the Right believes it is entirely right that someone is doing business well-being. That doesn't mean SV. We believe that what we pay into taxes that go to care for the elderly and kindergartens should go to care for the elderly and kindergartens and not to profit from private businesses. There is a big difference, and the right is trying to do by pretending that this debate is also about the small ideal and parental-driven kindergartens and the ideal actors in well-being, is an attempt at pure derailment. For they have always been for, and it is those who lose now when welfare professionals are allowed to be risk-free actors, as they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1269	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1276	The representative proposal from SV’s representatives for the elderly is about ensuring the settlement of all people who are allowed to stay. The Committee points out that, when people are allowed to stay in Norway, it is essential for a good life to ensure a rapid settlement. The Committee points out that at present there are 15 people with particularly high health challenges waiting to be settled in a municipality. The Committee notes that the proposers point out that the financial support system for receiving refugees with special needs only lasts for five years, and after five years it is the municipalities themselves that have to cover care expenses. The Committee would point out that, in the light of this, the proposers are promoting a proposal in the document that: ‘The government is asking that people who have received a residence permit but who are not resident because the costs are not covered in the long term be settled as soon as possible and present any proposals necessary to ensure this, including improved long-term financial support schemes.’ The Labour Party supports the proposal. If we are to succeed in integration, we cannot have people who have been staying, walking on asylum receptions for many years. It is important for those people who are among the most vulnerable that they can get started with a stable and predictable framework for their lives. Everyone understands that this is also a bad integration policy. Fortunately, we live in a country where people with, for example, disabilities can also be participants in the world of work and society. Let us make sure that these people start learning the Norwegian language and become a part of the working life and community in Norway – that they can contribute. The opposite is not good for these vulnerable people, it is not good for integration, nor is it socio-economic. This is about people who have been given a stay and are going to stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1292	There is no doubt that the people we are talking about here are a particularly vulnerable group, and that the problems associated with their settlement are demanding. That is the broad consensus. Then the government has also signaled a review of today's settlement system with a view to making it more accurate and thereby shortening the waiting time. This review is based on research carried out by the IMFI, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs, the House Bank and the Directorate for Health. The result of this work is in the form of a report which should provide a good starting point for the signaled review. Already today, a systematic and targeted work is being carried out by the IMDi for this group. Through the cooperation agreement between the State and the KS, there is also a specific obligation for municipalities to participate in and find solutions that ensure the rapid settlement of refugees with particularly resource-intensive needs. In my opinion, continued close cooperation with the municipalities will be important and necessary even if the legislation is changed. We're talking about a relatively small number of people ranging from 10 to 15 people. In view of this, there should be room for tailoring in the work to be done to find good solutions for the individual. I'm adding this to do today. In particular, grants are granted under the current scheme over the first five years. Thereafter, municipalities receive the same grant for these persons as for ordinary citizens with similar needs. I suppose that as well as the time factor as the size of the grants becomes part of the overall assessment that the government has to make in its announced review of the schemes. With the signals from the government both in the integration strategy and in the letters from the Council of State to the Committee in connection with this matter, the government parties do not find it natural to vote in favour of the majority position. We look forward to the result of the work that the government is now in, and hope that the government along with the municipalities will be able to solve the housing issues that we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1307	There is no doubt that this is an important matter and a problem that has been known for a long time. It is a little special that the matter comes up at the same time as we have had an action going on from very many rapporteurs – from the Central Party, from the Workers' Party, from the SV and local politicians from the same parties – who have gone out massively and said that Norway should pick up more refugees to settle more people, because they want to help people, is their message. It is a good attitude to have, but that message falls completely through when the same parties refuse to settle as few as 15 people with great and special needs. People who are among the most vulnerable, and who had needed it most, they refuse to accept. Why do they refuse to accept them? Well, because they don't give enough ringing coins in the cash register. I can't believe that it's solidarity that drives the parties' struggle to pick up more refugees, when you don't want to help those who are already here, who need it most. I think the same parties really should be ashamed of this double morale. They stand out and say that they are the ones who want to pick up, they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who have responded no to several concrete requests from the IMDI to settle. If you just use people as a game to get money in the cash register, I'm a little bit concerned. I could imagine joining in on a proposal to find a better solution for these, but then I think that the parties that have gone into play must first show that they feel something with their alleged solidarity. This fell completely through when it came at the same time that the same parties, the same local politicians and the same rapporteurs refused to help those who need it the most. This is a game, and we can't be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1316	Norwegian municipalities do a thorough job of settling refugees, and most of them get a residence permit shortly after they have been granted a residence permit. Unfortunately, we have a small group, approx. 15 persons, which is an exception. Refugees with disabilities or other special needs are dependent on a comprehensive assistance offer, which will incur large amounts of expenditure from the municipality of residence in all years to come. It concerns very few people, but it has serious consequences for the few. They remain in reception for many years without the possibility of initiating the integration process and without the possibility of becoming part of a community. the financial support scheme for the reception of refugees with special needs for a maximum period of five years; After that, the municipality must cover these expenses itself. For those who come under resource-intensive users, the country also covers parts of the amount after that time, but the municipalities still remain with a million in proportion. Unfortunately, the local authority's share of resource-intensive users is also proposed to increase in next year's budget. This makes it extremely difficult to settle in particular families with more children with special needs, as the municipality will incur large additional costs for many decades to come. With an increasingly pressing local economy, it is understandable that municipalities are hesitating to say yes, as in the next round it will force savings in other service areas. An additional challenge is that grants 2 – the additional grant paid in the first five years for refugees with special needs – are paid in arrears. This leads to significant uncertainty in view of the economic impact of the first years as well. This can be solved by e.g. a prior grant commitment, as the government parties point out, but it will not solve the main challenge, which is the financing after the end of the five-year period. This can only be solved by taking responsibility for funding, even beyond the five-year period. The Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, therefore promotes a proposal by which the Stortinget asks the Government to ensure that refugees with special needs who have received a residence permit are settled as soon as possible and that any proposals necessary to ensure this, including long-term financial instruments, are made. It concerns few people and will be a small expenditure for the state, but it will be an impossible cost for municipalities to incorporate into a budget without going beyond other services. All batches on the Storting are concerned with rapid settlement, with the quick start of the integration process and with the shortest possible time of receipt after decision. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that not all parties support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1329	There are several people who remain on reception for a long time, but the starting point for this case, in which I have been very committed, is a family of five who stayed in 2007. This family now has three adult children with disabilities. The parents have lived, but not the children. In such a family, it is natural to imagine that parents and children would like to live in the same municipality, that it is important for both parents and children that they can live near each other. For a small municipality, this can be very demanding when the five-year period of grant is over, and that's why I've taken it up. I took it up when Trine Skei Grande was the responsible minister in the field, and she assumed that refugees would receive services in line with others, without any specific funding from the state. I hope that today's minister can take a closer look at this, because I don't think this is about a game or anything like that; this is just about that once you've got a stay in Norway, and that's what you get from the state, you can't live in the state, you have to live in a municipality in Norway. It is not possible to live anywhere other than in a municipality. I don't think anyone thinks people with disabilities are going to stay at reception for years. It doesn't bring anything good, regardless of whether you think there are many or few who are going to come. It is a reality that at least smaller municipalities have major problems with the cost of this, and that is one of the reasons why the Stortinget decided to oblige the government to come back with a new scheme for resource-intensive services, where small municipalities would receive an increased grant. The government hasn't delivered on that. They have made a temporary contribution to the discretionary grant, but there is no safe funding at all. For example, three disabled people can become a very large proportion in a small municipality, so there is a need for a special grant to settle. Whether it is to be done through the mechanism for particularly resource-intensive services, or whether it is to be done by other means, is not so important for SV. What is important is that we get funding in place, so that people with disabilities are settled as quickly as possible. And where there's family, it's important to take that into account, so that people get to live near each other. Special considerations must be taken into account in these cases. This may also mean extra costs for municipalities, because housing may also involve extra costs in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1340	Escape from the home country is itself a major stress, but some of those who come to Norway and stay have a greater need for follow-up and care than others. Then it is good to know that we can provide the necessary help and care in Norway for these so-called resource-intensive users. The municipalities around Norway do a good job of securing housing and the necessary follow-up. The municipalities undertake to do the job required, often for the rest of these people's lives. Today, municipalities housing resource-intensive users receive support for this work, but for a limited period of five years. After that, these end up under the ordinary arrangements we have for resource-intensive users. It makes sure that many municipalities refuse to accept these refugees. It is feared that resources will not go to and that users will in the long term constitute significant expenditure items in the budgets. We have to respect that. The research report ‘Statistical instruments for the settlement of refugees with special needs’ was initiated by the IMFI and presented earlier in the autumn. The report outlines possible solutions, and it becomes important in the government's work on a new integration strategy, which I understand is well under way. I have great confidence that the Minister for Integration is following up this work in a good way. I perceive that the will to settle refugees is great in several municipalities. We also see international refugee disasters causing rapporteurs to encourage authorities to bring people to Norway who can settle in their municipalities. Municipal governments that have decided to accept refugees from Moria, if only Norwegian authorities bring them here, are recent examples of this. At the same time, we need solutions to enable these municipalities to also commit themselves to receiving refugees we already have here in the country. Today, several users who are not prepared by municipalities to accept live on temporary solutions operated by the UDI. Expenditure runs regardless of whether they live there or they live outside the municipalities. The difference is that the government takes the bill. We have examples that someone has lived on temporary accommodation for seven years, which is in no way ideal for them. I hope and believe that a review of the integration strategy will focus on finding a solution that will protect users and ensure that the municipalities that take on this important commitment are given the necessary guarantees. It is necessary so that, in the future, we will have smooth and permanent settlements for all of these refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1357	I want to start by thanking the proposers for focusing on an important matter for us in the Christian People's Party. Some refugees with special needs experience particularly long waiting times before they settle. For refugees, there is an average waiting time of three to seven months before residence, but for those living in organised departments, especially in housing and care facilities or in institutions, the waiting time is considerably longer — often as much as two to four years after the granted residence permit. We know that the settlement of refugees takes place by agreement between the state and the municipality, and we know that those who wait most often are the people who have permanent compound help needs, which will require considerable resource use in the municipalities in which they are settled. Municipalities would like to settle refugees, but no one said yes to 16 disabled people who have been accommodated. That is why I am proud of the local efforts of Christian People's Party politicians at municipal level in this matter. They have mobilized in the big cities, and now cities like Oslo, Kristiansand and Trondheim have decided to accept two or more of these 16. Is it not good when democracy works, mobilizes and creates solutions? I have the sense of that. Although the Christian People's Party has taken the matter locally in its own hands, this is an alert to a structure that does not work. Therefore, I am satisfied, but I also have expectations that the government is now working to review that arrangement. The government announced in the integration strategy that they would review and improve the settlement system for newly arrived refugees. The Ministry is now in the process of review and special attention must be paid to the settlement of persons in need of extensive follow-up. There is a need to pool the knowledge base in the field and there needs to be some concrete recommendations for improvement in the settlement system. We in the Christian People's Party have mobilized locally in this matter. In the future, it will therefore be important for the Christian People's Party to contribute to a change in the system that has created consequences for people in need of comprehensive health and care assistance that is currently on the asylum recipients. We must ensure that the future of those coming to Norway with similar needs will not be a year after year of reception. We must ensure that coordinated health tasks are carried out in the past, and we must ensure good transitions between the reception and the community in order to ensure safety for individuals and their families, as well as for municipalities and reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1374	We have a settlement arrangement for refugees that works well for most people. The settlement of refugees takes place by agreement between the country and the municipality, and the IMDi, in cooperation with the KS and the county municipalities, requests selected municipalities to settle a certain number of refugees each year. The municipalities that are requested to settle decide on and how many refugees the municipality wants to settle. Although that system works well, the waiting time for some refugees who have a major need for organisation and assistance is too long. There's no doubt about it. Refugees wait on average between three and seven months from the date of the decision to stay until they are settled. The waiting time for those living in organised departments, in particular housing and care facilities or institutions, is considerably longer, often two to four years after the granting of a residence permit. The IMDI is constantly working on finding solutions for each of these people, but it is challenging to find enough municipalities that will settle refugees with a lot of help. We see that municipalities may have challenges for resource-intensive refugees that in some cases exceed the specific government grants related to the settlement and integration of individuals. In the case of residence of disabled persons and/or behavioural difficulties, municipalities may receive additional grants up to NOK 1361000 per year for up to five years. This is in addition to the ordinary integration grant. But it ends after five years. It is important to note that general support schemes for municipalities also apply to refugees. The Health Directorate’s grant for specific resource-intensive health and care services to individual beneficiaries applies to refugees, both during the period during which they trigger specific government grants and after those grants have ceased. I agree with the staging representatives that the waiting time in the reception sometimes becomes too long, and that it is unfortunate. I am also concerned about finding solutions that can help to speed up the settlement of these people. In the criteria underlying which municipalities are requested to settle in 2021, we have clarified that consideration should be given to whether the municipality can accommodate refugees with severe disabilities. I am also very happy to see that recent initiatives have been taken from some large cities to settle refugees who require special follow-up, who currently live at various organised housing facilities. The report ‘Statistical instruments for the settlement of refugees with special needs’ was launched by the IMDi on 14 August. The report points out that there are several reasons why persons with special needs have to wait a long time for their residence and make various proposals for action, both organisational, educational and economic. We have warned in the integration strategy that we will review and improve the settlement system for newly arrived refugees. We are in the process of review, and the Ministry will assess the measures put forward and also look at the financial support schemes in place and whether they can be better structured.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1390	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1395	I understand that the Council of State, which is responsible for the settlement, is concerned that those who have resided should be able to settle quickly. That's good. But for a few, as we have debated today, the system does not work well enough, because the municipalities are concerned about the costs. It's not that they don't want to be on duty, but it's about needy community economics. It's about feeling that they have the opportunity to follow up the people they're going to live, really. Then I believe that we, who are national elected representatives, cannot run the bar, we have to take responsibility. So what will the government actually do to make sure that it doesn't go two to four years after the granted residence permit, before anyone settles?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1400	I want to begin by saying that there has been a lot of positive about the settlement of refugees in recent years. The waiting time in reception for ordinary refugees without special needs, but also for those with special needs, has fallen. I think it's because the grant schemes have improved, and also because the municipalities have taken responsibility and have really put up with the work that has been done. But when we see that the arrangements we have don't produce good enough results, like this, when we see that there are people who stay for too long in reception, it's clear that we have to look at the arrangements we have, whether we can do them better. We work very closely with the KS on this and had a dialogue meeting with them no later than today. We have implemented this report, which has given us some suggestions for action, and we are now going through them and will make proposals on how to improve the settlement system. One important goal will be that we are just doing something to help this group better and make sure that the waiting time drops.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1407	Thanks for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that the municipalities are good. They're on duty, and a lot of people are doing well. At the same time, I sometimes experience that we who are elected to the public respond like bureaucratic machines. The point here is that we have to take responsibility. I believe that when we agree on this cross-political issue, we could have given a signal from the Stortinget today with regard to the foreign authorities, the municipalities and the vulnerable: here it is to be cleaned up, here we are to find arrangements that will enable the municipalities to receive the funding to settle these people. The proposal that we are going to vote on today is that the Council of States itself should review, find out what is needed to get us moving quickly. So why can't you just support it, because it would have given a good political signal to all those who are waiting for clarification from us politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1416	Now I am uncertain whether the representative defined me as an automatic bureaucratic machine. The point is that this investigation is already well under way. We have received the report, we are now assessing the measures. What the sample has clearly shown is that the financial instruments are important, but there are also several things that matter. We must also bear in mind that they have proposed some measures that have been tried before, without success. So it's important that we actually take some time to review the proposal and make sure that we take the measures that actually work. The fact that we all stand here and say that the arrangements we have are not good enough, and that we all say that we want to rectify those arrangements, I believe is a very clear and clear signal to the Municipality of Norway and not least to the refugees who are now in overtime waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1421	The council said something like that in its statement that there were many reasons why the people we are discussing today are not going to live. I disagree a little bit about that, because I think it's basically one reason, and that's the funding. I think most municipalities have the skills to snort a good deal for these people, but the challenge is funding. Does the Council of State agree with me that the main challenge is the financial obligations they face throughout their lives? And does the Council agree with me that the increased proportion of resource-intensive services currently proposed in next year's budget will further reinforce this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1426	There is no doubt that the economy is an important factor in the settlement of refugees, and that the grant for the settlement of refugees has been very good, among other things. helped to get a very high speed in the settlement of refugees. It has also made very many municipalities consider it very attractive to settle refugees. It's something that's seen as positive as well financially, as well as that of course I hope that many people also want new people. So economics is undoubtedly an important factor. However, according to the report we have received, entitled ‘Statistical instruments for the settlement of refugees with special needs’, one also thinks that there are other measures that will be relevant for reducing the waiting time for them and for us to ensure that they are settled. Then I think it is important that we look at all the measures they propose, and not just the financial measures. For some small municipalities, as Andersen also pointed out in his post, it's not just about economics, it's also about capacity, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1433	It is not just in the report that the Council of State refers to that it has been said that there is a need for change. It has also been addressed to the public by UDI Director Frode Forfang, and points out quite correctly that the government has expenditure when people are sitting on reception as well. So it could be about moving some money from one place to another to make this work. I also noticed in the last answer the Council of State gave now. I have reviewed the report to which the Council of State refers, and yes, there may be many points. However, the reporters conclude that if the State wants municipalities to take on the task of resettlement of refugees with major health challenges based on voluntary activity, the costs of the municipalities should be covered. Let's do it. That's what the report says. Then I hope that the Council of State also recalls that there may be different arrangements, but this is the conclusion of the report to which the Council of State refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1440	There is no dispute that the costs incurred by municipalities as a result of contributing to their settlement should be covered. In fact, through the grant that has been granted in recent years, very many municipalities have been overcompensated to receive refugees to settle them. Especially those who succeed in the integration work end up being overcompensated. What has also been said, as President, is that we have good arrangements today, but we should definitely see if they should improve, and the concrete proposal made by the Director was that we should extend the time for specific support from five to ten years. It is also among the proposals that we consider when reviewing the settlement system now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1447	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1466	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1473	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee for finding a common solution across the parties in an important matter. Then I would also like to start by thanking very much all those who work in child protection, skilled professionals who are in a demanding job, under great pressure, who experience a lot of heat and threats in their working life, but still go to work every single day to protect children. They deserve not only one-sided negative attention, on the contrary, they are among the real heroes of well-being and deserve a great thank you. The entire Committee agrees with the proposers that there are good intentions behind this proposal, which therefore calls on the government to set up a selection to study the Child Protection Service. It is quite obvious to us that we have a job to do to ensure that child protection works in the best possible way. It has shown a number of reports, such as ‘Traveling Washes the Eyes’ from the Health Inspectorate, the 2017 NOU ‘Failure and Deception’, ‘They think we’re shitkids’, which came from the Children’s Ombudsman this year, and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which have also been very attentive. So the question is, what should we do to improve child protection? Following the promotion of this proposal, it became clear that the Ministry of Children and Family will launch a Norwegian public inquiry to embrace wider than the institution's child protection. The majority also decided unanimously on 6 October to ask the government to set up an expert committee to improve legal certainty at all levels of child protection. For this reason, the majority of the Committee, all parties other than the proposers, believes that child protection does not now primarily need more reports and reviews, but that we are following up the many reports we already have in a more systematic and holistic way. In short, no more reports, we want action based on what we know. Instead of supporting the proposal for a representative, we choose to support the input that has come from the service partners, the FO, the trade union, the child protection educators, i.e. the employees' organisations, and the KS. They have suggested that rather than making a new report, the service partners should put together a plan for following up the knowledge we already have, in a systematic way, an action-oriented cooperation between the employees’ organisations, the KS and the central authorities. We have a good tradition of this kind of work in Norway, and we have good experience in reaping from it in other fields as well. It is also supported by the Children’s Ombudsman and the National Association for Children’s Protection, which will also have such cooperation rather than a new report, a new review. That is why the Committee unanimously supports this initiative. We ask the government to ensure that such cooperation is facilitated, that the central authorities are involved, and not least that the votes of the service users are collected and listened to. The last thing I would like to stress is that it is absolutely essential that those who are actually involved in this service are heard, that we succeed in creating better child protection. Such an initiative will also contribute to the continuation of a lively debate on child protection. This is not a sentence for the debate on child protection, but rather a new chapter, because we are asking the government to report back to the European Parliament on the results of cooperation, so that we can also continue to follow developments, promote proposals for new measures, keep the debate going. In sum, the Committee expresses confidence in child protection employees. We want to work with all the parties to child protection to take the knowledge we already have, see the whole of it, systematize it – and act accordingly. In 30 seconds, I also have to say that as an SV, I am concerned that if we first change child protection, there are three things we have to do. We have to listen more to the children, have more involvement in child protection, we have to have more employees at work, so that employees have time to listen to the children, and we have to do something about the market correction and commercialisation of child protection that has taken place far too much in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1494	Thank you to the President-in-Office and the Committee for a good discussion of this matter. Norwegian child protection must be one of the most widely discussed issues here in the Grand Duchy during this period, and the political differences have become clearer between the right-wing government and the Workers' Party. There are too many differences in child protection. The government's response to that is a municipal merger. Our answer is ear-marked positions. The political differences are also evident in whether commercialisation is a good tool for giving children good care in the field of child protection. The government doesn't think it's important, but for the Workers' Party, it's essential that this last safety net for children is public and non-profit. The working party knows and sees that there is a lot of good work done in child protection. Employees are in a good position to meet parents and children. Especially now during the pandemic, we have seen that child protection has gone a long way, and they have been dedicated to their work of reaching out to the most vulnerable children. So our starting point for the criticism is that what is critical is not chargeable to employees, but that it is about a system and a government that does not take responsibility. We have also seen a significant commitment from the media that has warned about hair-removing conditions in child-rescue institutions, and despairing employees who, in the absence of sufficient colleagues, are about to give up. The fact that Norway has repeatedly been charged with its passport in the European Court of Human Rights is also part of this. Exposure is good, for parents and children who are struggling extra, depending on the community’s contribution to getting their daily lives in a straight line. And for young people on the road, it's about the basis of a whole life, both for each and every one of them and for their families. The strange thing is that one government-ordered report after another has pointed to irreversible change needs without leading to significant follow-up. Both health and national audit reports on very critical issues on a regular basis. Employees and their organisations have repeatedly expressed that they are too few to do a good job, which gives great pervasiveness and too little help to too many. In all the hearings that have followed the child-restraint exposure, both the child-responsors, the ideal child-restraint actors and not least the child-restraint organisations have repeated the need for employees with more time to build trust and more involvement. Nevertheless, with very few exceptions, we have been told over and over again that it is just waiting, and there is a new law. The government obviously has a sea of time, unlike the children and families who need help. Today, when we are discussing child protection in Stortinget, it is again because child protection initiatives have been initiated by child protection representatives. During the proceedings, employees’ organisations and employers have proposed action-oriented cooperation between the parties. It shows with all due clarity that patience is on the verge of some of them in our society that are struggling the most. The Labour Party supports tripartite cooperation to strengthen child protection and would like to thank the initiative of the Trade Union, FO and KS in this matter. We also look forward to the results of the Workers' Party initiative and the Stortingen's decision to strengthen legal certainty at all levels of child protection. We believe that child protection is not suitable for tender and commercial operations, and are impatient to have the results of increasing the proportion of non-profits at the expense of commercial ones. The Workers' Party is on the Children's Protection promise from 2011 and therefore supports a commitment to more knowledge and quality, but also more employees and more time. The tripartite cooperation of which everyone boasts requires actual action, and here the organisations, i.e. one third of this tripartite cooperation, have taken a clear initiative because they want concrete action. And one must be able to ask – when we have a government that has been in power for over seven years – why this initiative has not been taken before, and why one has not talked better with the organisations to put in place actions that go on action and on good quality development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1515	We know that there are many capable people working in child protection, and we must not forget that there is a lot of good going on in child protection. There are many children and many parents who get good help. The number of children and young people receiving child protection has increased in recent years. From 2014 to 2018, the increase is almost 5 pst. It means that child protection is important and has a big role to play. In 2018, 55,000 children were helped by child protection. Most people get relief while children live at home. The children who cannot live at home live in foster homes. So most people live in foster homes, but we have about. 15 000 children living in foster homes or institutions, and the majority of them living in institutions. Municipalities have great responsibility and authority in the field of child protection. Care transfer is a major intervention in all families. There is no doubt that we believe the municipalities have to be able to manage this authority a little better, because we know that there is a great variation between the child protection services in the municipalities. The National Audit Office reports point out that many municipalities lack the assistance measures needed by children and families in the field of child protection. They believe that the offer is too slightly differentiated and that the problem is greatest in the small municipalities. Among other things, in the smallest municipalities they have the highest proportion of care transfers. The last report from the Riksrevision concluded that children do not experience hearings, nor do they have the opportunity to complain about services they receive from child protection. This may sound like a long description of misery, but it is important to bring forward the things that are not working, and that is probably also the point of this proposal for a representative. I'll come back to that a little bit. But I have to go into the European Court of Human Rights, which has taken several Norwegian child protection cases for treatment. These matters lie a while back. The Court of Justice has shown that the reasons for the choice of measures have not been sufficient and insufficient provision has been made for children to be reunited with their parents. The Ministry now carries out a review of these matters. The Centre Party has made a proposal to set up an independent review commission or a sample. At the hearing, it turned out that there was not much support for it, precisely because we have many reports. The SV representative mentioned ‘Traveling washes the eyes’, which is the department’s own report. It's a review of 106 care transfers that shows that we have a big job to do. The government has announced that they will put down a NOU, a Norwegian, public investigation of the institution's child protection, but that goes wider than that. Following the arrival of this representative proposal, Stortingen decided to set up an expert committee to review legal certainty at all stages of the service, based on the best interests of the child. That's how we have a lot of investigations and assignments going on, and I guess that wasn't the mood for us to have another investigation. As has been said from the Chair, we must take action. I would like to pay tribute to the FO, the Trade Union, the Children's Educational Association and the KS for what came out in the hearing on the proposal for the examination of child protection. They want action-oriented cooperation between the parties to work to develop skills and not least to address the overall challenges of municipalities. We wholeheartedly support that. There will also be a new Children's Protection Act, and we have pushed for a large amount of work to be done in the municipalities, namely that each municipality should have a state report every year on how the municipality works with child protection. We have not least invested in competence. Ninety million. kr is provided for the provision of continuing training for those employed in the protection of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1534	I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive work on our proposal for a representative. I know that all parties are committed to ensuring good child protection that helps vulnerable children and young people suffer from care failure. We do not always agree on the instruments, but we agree on the objective. Let me first point out that Norwegian child protection has competent and dedicated employees who are in charge of children and young people who experience care failure. Often, employees are in difficult and demanding situations. They experience a strong cross-pressure between client and system and between help and control and law enforcement. There is no doubt that there is a professional group in many difficult dilemmas, which at the top of it is exposed to threats, sheikhs and hate feelings. I don't think anyone contests the fact that employees' work and efforts are affordable, and our initiative to set up an independent screening committee that goes through the entire field of child protection, and that proposes improvements, is so absolutely supposed to improve the situation of employees, as well as that the proposal comes as a necessity after recent years of developments in child protection. Over time, we have received reports, supervision, media disclosures and judgments in the European Court of Human Rights, which in total paint a rather serious and worrying picture of the situation in the field of child protection. There's a lot that's good, but clearly a lot that can get better, which, in my opinion, different governments in the last 20 years are responsible for, and far from just the sitting. For there is reason to ask yourself now: Has the field been given the political focus it deserves, up through? Have we gone through – or do we – the right grips? We're not sure about that in the Center Party, and it could give a good answer to that whole review. This is going on, for example. a lift of competence and quality in the protection of children. Action and legislative changes have been taken for improvements. That's good. But is that enough? Is it more like patching or patching on a failure system that has been moving in the wrong direction over time? The various reports and inspections document continuous service failures and weaknesses, and the State Health Authority has also pointed out that the failure is so extensive and serious that there is reason to ask questions about the adequacy of the government’s action taken. Unfortunately, our desire for a comprehensive review of child protection has not been supported in the Committee and in the Chamber. Although I can understand that many people who work in child protection, as well as political parties, think there are enough investigations now, I believe that we had been served with such a comprehensive review of the whole field. There could be a golden opportunity to discuss the future of child protection constructively, based on a new, shared understanding. It's e.g. the proposal from the user environment that a two-fold division of child protection could have been assessed, i.e. both a supportive child protection and a separate child-responsive protection which intervenes in the most serious cases, such as taking care. Would there be an appropriate organisation to ensure more trust and less demanding roles for employees? Or would it be wiser for more regional child protection? We in the Center Party don't have the answers to this, and we're really afraid that no one else has the opportunity to make such big, overall assessments, because you have more than enough to put out fires and improve the system we have. But we believe an independent selection with a clear, broad mandate that systematizes existing knowledge, looks at renewal and change needs and presents suggestions for improvements, would give us answers and perhaps a new direction. However, a comfort when we are discouraged is that a total increase, following the promotion of this proposal for a representative, has ensured that we now have an expert committee to look at legal certainty in the area of child protection. Very good. In addition, during the work on our proposal, a very constructive initiative has also been launched by the FO, the Trade Union, the Children's Protection Educational Society in the Academy Association and the KS on an action-oriented cooperation between the parties that may perhaps take up some of the systematisation we in the Centre Party are looking for and want to see. We wholeheartedly support this initiative, as we do with most measures to better protect vulnerable children. Because when the state takes over the care and life of vulnerable children, it's our duty as big-time politicians to do what we can to ensure that our child protection is and will be the best possible. I finally take up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1559	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1564	I am pleased that the Stortinge today chooses to vote against this proposal from the Center Party, a proposal that could have led in the utmost consequence to a postponement of the entire Children's Protection Act, which is to be dealt with in the spring. The National Children's Association writes in its consultation note: To review child protection in order to impose a political loss on the government is the wrong motivation, and we in the Swedish Children's Rights Association will remind you that responsibility for the service must be assumed across party borders. Young people can be told that – yes, in fact none of the bodies that were called in to the hearing on this matter were particularly positive to the proposal of the Centre Party, because they know – like us – that we already know a lot about how the shoe presses in Norwegian child protection. At the same time, something good has come out of this proposal. The KS, FO, Trade Union and Child Protection Educators in the Association of Academics have a common desire to be brought together in a joint work in cooperation with the State, related to child protection and overall quality of service. That is what we in the Christian People's Party think is a very good idea. A joint effort will contribute to better cooperation between the most important actors in child protection, a systematic and holistic follow-up to key challenges, and an increased focus on child protection and the possibility of a more systematic change. The Ministry of Children and Family now has a new law to improve the legal security of children and families and to put the child at the centre of the solutions. At the same time, early intervention and prevention are also important elements of the new law. In this respect, we have already begun to take action. Several have pointed out that the quality of child protection services across municipalities is too variable. This challenge, we see, is why the government has now come to the fore for a state report that will help to get an overview and increase the quality of the municipalities by the state knowing what the municipalities need to do in a good way. Another important measure of quality development in services is the high level of competence. Almost 100 million. kr was included in the budget for various competence measures in 2020, and the proposal that has been consulted on master training requirements for the core tasks of municipal child protection is important. These funds will also be continued for 2021. In this year's draft budget, the government has several important child protection initiatives. We've put in $30 million. SEK 24 million to improve the health care of children in the field of child protection. SEK to rear-view protection for young people aged between 23 and 25 and SEK 8 million. kr to the Children’s and Young People’s Alarm Phone to maintain a 24-hour telephone and chat service. In addition, the government has granted 10 million. to further develop the Sámi Regional Centre of Competence to a Sámi National Centre of Competence for both State and Municipal Child Protection, Family Protection and the Local Emergency Centre. In other words, we work continuously to provide better child protection services. That being said, we are not blind because there are challenges in the field, and that we really need to work on improving the system we have. Child protection stands, among other things. In a difficult case, when it comes to both prevention and at the same time to those who have the power to promote a case of care takeover. Therefore, it is necessary to build mutual trust between child protection and parents. In places with very low conditions, capacity can be a challenge. This summer I visited the Child Protection Service in Bærum, which is one of the largest in the country. They have tailored their child protection service to their inhabitants. Their solution does not necessarily fit all other child protection services, because there is no one size fits all solution for child protection. These are just some of the challenges we face to ensure better quality in child protection, but we already know a lot about where child protection fails. That's why we don't need any more scrutiny. Now it's time to find solutions. This could mean that we have to bear to try a little, and maybe also fail, but just as fully be offensive and not give up. We're going to be able to offer those who work in the field what they need to give their children a safe and caring upbringing. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will continue the targeted job of strengthening Norwegian child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1585	Child protection employees have a very important and demanding job. Child protection depends on having the trust and reputation of society to reach children and parents in need of help. Several media petitions and cases dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights have helped to create a unilaterally negative view of child protection. I think it's important that we help nuance this picture. At the same time, we know that there are challenges. We are actively working on these, and in several areas we are doing well. There's someone who wants to draw a picture of nothing happening. That's wrong. It happens more now than in a very long time. The level of competence in the protection of children shall increase the quality of professional judgements and justifications. New digital procedural tools shall lead to better documentation and more systematics in the investigation work and response choices of the Child Protection Service. The new Child Protection Act shall provide employees with a better basis for carrying out professional and human rights assessments. These measures will help to improve legal certainty for children and parents. Child protection needs predictability in order to implement the comprehensive measures in place and, in particular, to reap the benefits thereof. I understand the intentions behind the proposal to set up an investigation committee to review child protection, but I am pleased that the majority of the committee does not support this. A new review would contribute to more uncertainty and more pressure on a service that has already been hit hard by tourovers and external pressure. I do not think there is a need for such a review either. We have already carried out a number of investigations and reviews of child protection practices. We know the challenge picture. What we need is to put in place the good measures and the good solutions. That's why I'm in favour of the Committee's idea of a joint effort with the most central actors in child protection. This will be useful in our work on systematising knowledge, following up challenges and taking action where the needs are greatest. That's why I want to follow up on this. I also follow up the Storting decision to set up an expert committee to assess the legal certainty of child protection. I think it's wise to sharpen the work against those areas where the risk and consequences of failure are greatest. It is natural to see this in the context of the NOU work that I have already announced, where the overall problem will be how municipal and state child protection can provide better quality and legal certainty in the most serious and complex issues. There is already a major effort to improve child protection, and we are now launching several processes to identify measures and solutions that can solve the challenges we see in the sector. This is going to make child protection even better to help the most vulnerable kids in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1605	Thank you for your input to the Council of State. I notice that the Council of State is engaged in tripartite cooperation. It was high time. It's true that tripartite cooperation is part of child protection solutions. We have been involved in many budget hearings where the social partners have pointed to the challenge needs, and it also has organisations in the field of child protection. When the Council of State now – finally, I might say – understand that tripartite cooperation is important, will the Council also listen to the social partners who have said that municipal child protection needs more earmarked jobs? If the Council of State doesn't think it's wise, I'd like to have a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1613	I can answer that very well. As I have stressed in this room very many times, I am concerned about good conditions for the employees, and I am also concerned that there should be more employees in child protection. There I believe that the municipalities have taken their responsibility, and they have had a huge increase. When you look at the figures from 2013 to 2019, which are the latest figures we have, there has been an increase of 1,400 employees in municipal child protection. I think the municipalities deserve a great reward for that. If you also look at the numbers compared to what were ear-marked positions, it's not necessarily that there would be more if you had ear-marked positions. As I have said, I believe that earmarked funds can mean that the municipality gets exactly that money. So they use them, and then they don't necessarily use anymore. The result has actually been that some of these years there have been more jobs than what was averaged under the red-green ones. I'm busy doing the same thing as the organisations, namely getting more employees, getting more competent employees, and getting them a better working day to secure the vulnerable kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1618	That's something I don't understand in the Council's reasoning and justification – his refusal to understand the need for more municipal child protection positions. Because it's not to do the employees a service, it's to improve the quality. That is what the trade unions report back. The measures taken by the government are good. We have supported most of them, but we have other proposals, and we have additional proposals that we believe should strengthen quality. All these proposals have been rejected by the government. In terms of positions and competences, we know, among other things. that it is difficult to get because it is such a big turnover. Large tourovers are associated with a lot of work pressure and too few employees, says the trade union. What makes the Minister not see that this is linked to the quality of the children who live their lives in child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1627	Then the representative must have interpreted me very incorrectly based on what I am replying to, because I fully agree with the reasoning that more employees, better time and better skills provide a better offer, legal certainty and ensure the most vulnerable kids. I fully agree with that. But there are different ways to achieve that goal. We have a strong commitment to competence. There are many of the initiatives we have announced, which are going to go on competence – new child protection law, Digi Children's Protection, what we're going to do at foster homes, we're going through, better cooperation between health and child protection, etc. So it's happening enormously. When I'm busy with more employees, it's because I think it's needed, and I think it gives better quality in child protection. My answer, however, is different from the red-green ones. At least when we look at the numbers from earlier, it's given more employees than when one had the earmarked funds. I am busy with several jobs. That's why we've given the municipalities good finances over the last few years just so that the municipalities can prioritize it. They have taken that responsibility, and they deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1634	I believe that all responsible authorities are doing what they can to achieve the best possible child protection. But we in the Center Party are concerned about whether there is enough systematized evidence to be able to make qualitative and independent assessments of whether we are properly organised in the future in the field of child protection. What does the Council of State think about that? Is it actively looking at alternative organisation and structure, or is today's organisation and structure the best we can have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1639	When I listened to the comments of the representative, I was a little uncertain – that's why I said that I supported the intention behind the proposal – because I felt that the post was more about looking forward to what kind of child protection we should have to offer to the kids, while I read the representative's proposal more like wanting to examine what was behind. And I agree more with what the representative said in the pulpit, about looking forward. When we put down this sample, we're going to make a mandate, we're going to have a composition, and I'm going to do that, even if I wanted to wait for the vote and that the debate had been in Stortinget, to see it all together. When it comes to legal certainty, I think, as I said, that the most complex, complex issues, the most vulnerable kids, are one of the things we need to have a strong search light on. When it comes to landing the mandate, there will also be a freedom within it to look at different solutions. But anyway, when I've looked at different models or been in these debates, I see that one might solve some challenges, but then the new one is created. So this isn't just easy either, but this sample I'm sure will add much to this debate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1648	Thanks for the answer. I believe that an investigation will provide the best basis for looking forward, but this is a difficult field. I mean by the proposal to extend a hand, and I have to say that I reacted when the Council's political colleague from the Christian People's Party now raised a claim from a hearing body that the Central Party has promoted this proposal alone, in order to cause political loss to the government. I have encouraged time and again in interviews, in debates and in the committee – and also in good dialogue with the ministry – that this is a proposal to lift the area and to look at a common solution, so I wonder whether the Council of State shares the view of its colleague that it was well said that we alone have promoted this proposal in order to impose a political loss on the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1653	I have great faith in the representative, and we have had many good meetings and discussions to create together the best possible child protection, so I am absolutely sure that this proposal is promoted in a desire to contribute to the improvement of child protection. But I would have feared, if the proposal were adopted, that it would lead to more pressure on a sector that is already weakened or in a difficult situation, so I think the solution that the Storting is now falling down on, where one puts down an expert selection and we see it in conjunction with the NOU that is already notified, is wise. I think the video about party-based work is also good, it's going to make good sense. That's why I think what's done here will give us a lot of good answers. Then I'm very concerned that the processes we've notified, for example. new child protection law, which we are going to come with and hopefully get adopted before the summer, has to go its own way, and then I am absolutely sure that together with the Centre Party we can also help to find good solutions for the best for the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1660	It is clear that there are major challenges in child protection, and a number of reports have already pointed out. There has been a lively debate on child protection defects and deficiencies for a long time, where SV has been concerned that you need more time, trust in work, to see each child, and not least have more involvement, where children’s voices are also being listened to, as one of the most important. The Committee has now agreed that we want an action-oriented cooperation between the parties, and the Council of State said in its statement that he is in favour of it. Then we've already, as many people have been in, a judicial committee, an expert committee, which also works. I would like to ask the Council of State how he sees fit to ensure that the participation of children, the user perspective, is taken care of in what we are saying today, but also in what we started with through the expert committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1667	The participation of children is crucial. If you want to be able to provide a good offer and care, it is important to know what your children’s needs are, and that includes: the ability of children to influence significantly. That's why it's included in the law, just to underline the importance of it, and that it's implemented. But as I said to the representative, or at least in the hearing to the control committee related to the Riksrevision report, I think very much of what happens to the procedural system, also becomes important, precisely in order to get a better systematic, quality assurance through it, ensure that employees not only remember, but prove that this is done. I think what's going on in child protection will help make the child's participation more central. But then the Committee also points to different organisations, where users are also represented, and I think that in this NOU work, the input that will come from there will help to clarify the matter even better, and hopefully we will get even better results when the NOU is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1674	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It's good to hear, but what I'm asking about is more concrete how children's voice, user perspective, should be included in this work that's now going on, because it's an observation that there's a lot of committed policymakers and others who are constantly asking for research, reports, new measures. It is very important that in that work, in all the initiatives that come from this house, we do not forget who this service is actually about protecting. That is why I am also very concerned, as a case-by-case rapporteur, with what the Committee stresses, namely that the user perspective should be taken into account in this cooperation with the parties we are now pointing out. That call applies, at least for my part, also to the legal security committee that my party’s representatives voted in favour of – including where the child’s vote must be included. My question to the Council of State was really how participation is ensured in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1681	Thank you again for your input and questions. Now the mandate is not clear, but I take with me the recordings that the representative makes, because I agree with the need. I also see the attitude of the committee. I think this is going to be one of several important pieces like this mandate and this work has to be about. I just want to stress once again that I fully agree that the user perspective is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1687	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1713	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. It is first voted on the remaining issues from Thursday's map. It concerns the case No. 8 to 10 on Agenda No 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1725	During the debate, Mr Knag Fylkesnes put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess different tourism tax models in Norway and to come back to the Stortinget with a proposal in the context of the revised national budget 2021. The government is asked to assess both a government-determined tax and a municipal rate, flat rate and percentage of overnight rates, differentiated rates depending on seasons and destinations, and whether the tourist tax revenue of the municipalities should be earmarked for travel life purposes. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1758	A total of 37 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 5-8, by Anniken Huitfeldt, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 9-13, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 15–26, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 27-37, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27, 30 and 31 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the basic policy is maintained by rejecting any proposals on Expeditionary Advanced Base [[EAB]] Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a decommissioning plan for Norwegian forces in ongoing NATO operations and US-led operations. The case shall include a plan for the definitive withdrawal of the Norwegian military involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan.’;» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reject the call for participation in the Cooperative Deployment concept.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1814	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28, 29 and 32–37, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a separate case about the first service of the future.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate a two-part recruitment school structure with the Terningmoen and Drevjamoen as a starting point and to come back to the Stortinget with a case on this during 2021. The case shall also determine the use/renting of Haslemoen's resources as a sub-division of the Terningmoen, inter alia, with shooting and exercise areas and any other decommissioning capacity, if this can save funds and land.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to exercise a much greater degree of transparency towards Stortinget in the case of Norwegian military cooperation with third countries and Norwegian operations abroad.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to submit during 2021 a climate and environmental plan for the defence sector with clear targets and measures for the reduction of environmental impact for the period up to 2030 and to report annually on the achievement of the objectives of the budget’.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back to the Storting with a revised proposal for the defence-specific efficiency cuts in the long-term plan, where they are explained and justified individually.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an external sample mandated to examine all aspects of the acquisition of F-35 in the light of the updated cost picture of Prop. 1 S and the recent U.S. reports. [[2020-2021]] Government Accountability Office on the Programme, including whether the Storting has been adequately and timely informed of the challenges associated with and assumed additional costs arising from the acquisition.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with a case to the Storting for possible measures to reduce the total cost of the purchase of fighter aircraft, including the possibility of a reduction in the number of aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought back to explain the scope of the competitive outsourcing and the conclusion of so-called ‘strategic cooperation’ with a view to returning to the Defence.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1869	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 17 and 21, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the announcement of investment in tanks in the spring of 2021 for the phase-in of fighting vehicles from 2023 at the latest.’» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start building a new cadre-based Brigade South from 2021. Brigade South shall be a light brigade built on reservists and compulsory.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: 'A new common recruitment board will be created for the Defense of the Terningmoen. Haslemoen is distributed as a possible department under the Terningmoen.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1896	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18, 19, 22 and 24–26, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asking the government to increase the crew of the Heimevertet to the adopted structure, cf. Inner. [[2017-2018]] 50 S Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that Home Security is provided with additional resources to ensure annual training by six days for the solar data and nine days for the command.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: "The government requests the removal of a possible Recruitment Ball north of the Drevjamo in case of increased recruitment." Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government requests the submission of a State Report to EBA in Defence and an analysis of needs with cost estimates towards 2028.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government requests the start of the construction of the fourth battalion before 2026.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget for 2021 with an overview of the real costs of participating in the EU Defence Fund and the implications for the export-based national defence industry.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1942	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of air protection through the acquisition of new air protection systems with long-range air protection missiles and sensors capable of protecting the fighter base on Örland, the Allied reception area and the base of Evenes.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1959	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government in connection with the planned purchase of new helicopters to the Special Forces from 2024 and beyond to extend the purchase of dedicated helicopters to the Army, which is stationed in a separate squadron based on Bardufoss.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2021 to come back with an assessment of possible investments and upgrades that can be carried out independently of the ongoing distribution of future surface structure.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1983	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the start of the procurement process for new long-range air protection, in line with the Government’s 2016 long-term plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e1998	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–13, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the Government continue the Andøya Air Station as the base for maritime surveillance aeroplanes.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to assess how Norway can strengthen its digital autonomy.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative of a Norwegian or common Norwegian public cloud resolution.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision further asks the government to provide a budget in which the operating budget for the defence sectors is divided into different chapters.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to apply for the restoration of a national cereal storage system in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2038	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to come back to the Storting as soon as possible, and at the latest in the revised national budget in spring 2021, with concrete proposals for speeding up investment and/or acquisition of maritime defence. This is in order to strengthen the operational capability of the Maritime Defence Agency and to ensure predictability for the Norwegian shipyard industry.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the clean-up of defence is carried out by defence personnel or DSS.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to freeze all processes for the outsourcing and inception of so-called ‘strategic cooperation’ in the defence sector until the United Kingdom has been submitted to an investigation into the use of non-military personnel and matters relating to the international law of the war and non-military personnel as legitimate military objectives.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to exempt the defence from the ABE cut during the long-term planning period.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2072	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the Defence Museums are partly financed by the Ministry of Culture according to the same model as the Defence Music from the state budget of 2022.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2090	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the number of Annual Works in Defence by 500 in 2021, to take into account an increase of 1,100 annual works by 2024 and to return to the last of the revised national budgets for 2021 with the necessary measures to achieve this.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the benefits of the ABE cuts are returned to the defence sector’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2114	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests, in the follow-up to the decision to close the Andeya Air Station, to follow up the conversion of the Andeya Air Station in line with the guidance underlying the decision and the observations of the majority in the Innst. [[2016-2017]] 62 S The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2268	It's going to wrestle over you. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2282	It is added over IV. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2296	That's right over VIII. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2310	It shall be counted over XI, XVI and XVII. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2324	It's voted over XV. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2339	It is votted over XVIII. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2353	It's going to add up to XIX. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2367	It's said to be over XXI. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2381	It is voted over XXIV. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2395	It shall then be counted over II, III, V-VII, IX, X, XII-XIV, XX, XXII and XXIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2412	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a complete plan for moving the maritime monitoring activity from Andyya to Evenes, where it is doing well for solutions for phase-in, hangar issues, de-icing, storage of ammunition and fuel, and manning, including support functions and economics.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide insight into the process of the trade-military recommendation for the phase-in of P-8 in order to prevent speculation about over-management by the Ministry of Defence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to provide calculations for operating costs of MPA activity on Andøya and Evenes.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide analyses and calculations on the basis of which the slopes of the Norwegian P-8 aircraft are located.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission of a crew plan to ensure full operational operation of the Evenes base.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2461	The size of the store then goes over the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2470	Case No. 1-3 is the second reading of legislative acts and concerns legislative acts 21 to 23 There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e2503	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Schytz on behalf of the Right, Party of Advancement and the Left the proposals No 3-6, from Solvency Schytz on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No 7, by Kjell Børge Freiberg on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes that extend the possibility that billing cards can be offered as a product in Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6111	Alternatively, A, § 1-1, first paragraph, and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1-1, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: [[1]] § 1-3, unless otherwise provided in or in accordance with law. For insurance services, the insurance contract law applies’. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced support for the vote. The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6132	It is votered over A, § 3-20, § 3-21 and § 4-30 fourth paragraph. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6146	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the right and left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Sections 3 to 20 are replaced by the following: § 3-20 Liability for loss in misuse of electronic signature Liability that the service provider may assert against the rightholder in accordance with other applicable legal rules for misuse of electronic signature creation data may not exceed the excess resulting from the second to fifth subparagraphs. [[1]] [[2]] The rightholder responds with a proportion of up to 450 kroner. However, the rightholder does not respond with such a proportion if the rightholder could not have discovered the abuse in advance and has not acted fraudulently. [[3]] The rightholder responds with a proportion of up to NOK 12 000 if the loss is due to the fact that the rightholder has grossly negligently failed to fulfil his obligations under the first and second subparagraphs of Sections 3 to 19. [[4]] The rightholder responds with a proportion corresponding to the loss the service provider may make in accordance with otherwise applicable legal rules, if the rightholder has failed one or more of his obligations under the first and second subparagraphs of Sections 3 to 19 so that the rightholder had to understand that the default could pose a imminent risk of misuse of the electronic signature creation data. [[5]] The rightholder does not respond to any loss caused by the service provider himself, any person acting on behalf of the service provider, or any person represented by the service provider himself. Unless the rightholder has acted fraudulently, the rightholder does not respond to losses in the following cases either: (a) where losses occur after the rightholder has notified the provider or service provider of the abuse or danger of abuse in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 3 to 19; (b) where the obligation to facilitate the warning under Sections 3 to 17 or Sections 3 to 18 has failed: c) where electronic signing is not sufficiently secure; d) where the service provider has not required strong customer authentication or equivalent security to the extent that it is otherwise relevant in connection with the conclusion of the contract; e) where there are circumstances in which the service provider is closest to himself to carrying the risk of misuse. The king may lay down detailed rules on the security requirements referred to in points (c) and (d) of the fifth subparagraph.`; [[6]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Sections 3 to 21 are replaced by the following: § 3-21 Reducing the ownership of the rightholder The liability of the rightholder under the second and third subparagraphs of § 3-20 may be relaxed when it is reasonable to take into account the nature of the personal security information related to the misused electronic signature production data, the circumstances that existed at the time of the abuse, and any lack of care or other factors on the part of the service provider that have contributed to the loss. [[1]] [[2]] The liability of the rightholder under the second and third subparagraphs of § 3-20 may also be reduced if a provider of goods or services that has received a performance on the basis of misused electronic signature creation data in relation to a financial service understood or should understand that the use of the electronic signature creation data was unlawful. [[3]] The first and second subparagraphs shall not restrict the rightholder’s access to relaxation or to raise other objections on other grounds’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘§ 4-30, fourth paragraph, the customer shall be replaced by the following: the customer shall be liable for the entire loss if the loss is due to the client’s intentional default of his obligations so that the customer must understand that the default could present a imminent risk of misuse of the payment instrument’. [[4]] The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals. The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6214	It goes over the rest of A.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6224	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 3 to 19 third paragraph is replaced by the following: the rightholder loses his right to limit liability under § 3 to 20 if the rightholder does not notify of misuse of electronic signature creation data without undue delay after having become aware of the abuse. [[3]] The same shall apply if the rightholder has not notified of any abuse within 13 months of the person entitled having understood that an abuse has taken place. However, the limitation of liability shall not be forfeited until 13 months after the rightholder became aware of the abuse, if the service provider has failed to provide the rightholder with transaction information or other relevant information showing the transaction or agreement to which the abuse has led and which is to be provided to the customers of the service provider by law here.’;» The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6245	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the proportion of the third paragraph of Section 3-20 of the Financial Agreement Act should be adjusted to take account of the price increase in recent years and to ensure that the amount provides a sufficient incentive for rightholders to use their electronic signature properly. The government is also asked to assess whether the amount should be linked to the basic amount of public security so that it is automatically adjusted for price changes. These assessments should also be made for the amount set out in the third paragraph of Section 4-30.’» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6263	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6273	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6295	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6314	A total of 48 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 6, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7–14, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 15-18, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 19 from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Centre Party and the Greens the proposals No 20-32, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 33, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 34 to 47, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 48, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 48, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the practice of private noise agreements in wind power development and to consider prohibiting such agreements.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6367	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36 and 42, from Red. Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation in order to give the municipalities and the local population a real veto right to development, through binding referenda and municipal government decisions.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Environmental Directorate or other public body with natural protection competence to carry out the nature mapping to be carried out as part of the impact studies on wind power plants and to establish a regulatory framework to ensure that the builder takes the cost of the monitoring.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6391	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to upgrading existing hydroelectric power plants, ensuring energy efficiency in buildings and not increasing export capacity from abroad.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6408	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38, 41 and 43 to 46, from Red. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government requests the review of all ongoing wind power projects and assess the action space to tighten up to the new concession system’.» Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that no concessions are given to wind power installations where the needs of reindeer for, inter alia, pastures, rentals and calving sites are not met by the builder in the concession process. Concessions shall not be granted subject to the condition that after-clearances shall be provided.’;» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary regulatory changes to make the Directorate-General for the Environment an active part of the assessment of impact assessments, and to come back to the Stortinge with proposals to this effect.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that wind power is not extended in large interrelated natural areas with unspoiled imprints.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that wind power is not extended in national and regionally important open-air areas’.» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that wind power is not developed in landscapes of national and substantial regional interest.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6454	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government as soon as possible, and by 01.01.2021, to launch an independent investigation into all conflict-affected wind turbines on land, both built-in and under development, to review the regulatory framework, including the impact assessment regulation and the EU impact assessment legislation, has been complied with.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6471	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that no new wind turbines be built on land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6486	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39, 40 and 47, from Red. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that all ongoing wind power projects with impact assessments over five years of age develop new impact assessments.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review the use of the State spatial plan in power concession cases, to propose restrictions in practice if it is not in line with the law, and to return to Stortinget with proposals.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that wind power is not extended in peripheral zone areas to protection areas’.» The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6515	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In spring 2021, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for the introduction of an environmental tax of between 1.5 and 2 øre per kWh produced by the host municipality of the wind power plant, based in the Energy Act, as part of the concession conditions of the wind power plant.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6532	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–32, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that no concessions are given to wind or hydropower generation in areas where the knowledge of nature is not good enough.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to use future concession treatment to ensure that the development of wind power on land does not lead to a deterioration in the nature or deterioration of indigenous rights.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan showing the potential for small-scale wind power generation in ports, industrial areas and other areas where wind power can be expanded without conflicting with nature considerations and indigenous rights, including assessing adjusted distance requirements for lower turbines in such areas, and returning to the Stortinget by the end of 2021 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting that the Planning and Building Act be applied to all energy matters again, as it was in the past, and to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for necessary legislative changes.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for stricter requirements related to the impact assessments carried out in advance of different developments.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the impacts on nature’s own carbon storage are included in the assessment of wind and hydropower plants.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stricter requirements for the monitoring of nature in the concession process, in order to ensure that construction is avoided in areas with important natural values and red-listed species. Increased process supervision should include increased control of the nature monitoring carried out.’» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a law that requires those who wish to make a major contribution to nature to apply for their own authorisation to intervene from the environmental management.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is asking that the builders and the government cooperate with the representatives of the indigenous peoples in order to prevent any wind power plans from damaging their industry and that any measures harming their industry are not put into effect, unless the economic operators who suffer the damage from the development give their informed consent.’;» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the treatment of new wind power plants in Sámi areas be delayed until the legal situation around land and water is better clarified, through the treatment of the Sámi Committee.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that no new wind power development is permitted in the south-samian reindeer-farmed land.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to amend the Energy Act to ensure that new conditions for the expansion or operation can be imposed, if there is any new knowledge of the negative environmental impact thereof.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to lower the limits of acceptable noise levels from all activities. The level of noise accepted shall not be measured as an annual average, but in a shorter time interval. Noise measurements must be made at regular intervals during the service life of the establishment.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6613	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Centre Party and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that wind power development decisions are in line with local and local government decisions. Concession may not be granted in breach of local government decisions.’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6631	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15–18, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to lift the house in § 6-4, third paragraph of the Planning and Building Act, which deals with concession and state spatial plan.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for amendments to the concession law for wind power so that it becomes the same public ownership requirements for wind power as for hydropower.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked by the Government to present to the Storting a case of taxing the value creation of foreign companies in Norway, including the need to tighten the rules on profit movements.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for strong restrictions on foreign ownership by exploiting concessional natural resources in Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6665	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7–14, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the setting up of an Energy Commission to prepare proposals for a comprehensive energy and climate plan that looks at the expected energy needs of industry and society, energy efficiency improvement and the need for different forms of new energy production in the context of Norwegian climate policy. The plan must clarify the need at both national and regional level and will result in a separate issue for the Stortinget.’» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that no permit is granted for the start-up of power plant constructions until all natural research required has been carried out and the necessary consideration has been given to by the requirements of the work.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that citizens and stakeholder organisations are notified when surveys between municipalities and builders of wind power or hydropower start up.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a change to the Energy Act § 2-1 on Application obligations, so that it only covers conditions for the production and distribution of electrical energy. The proposal must specify that the treatment of the concession application cannot be carried out until the area clearance is available in the municipal plan and, where appropriate, the regulatory plan, in line with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to amend § 12-1 of the Planning and Building Act which means that compulsory energy installations are no longer exempt from the regulatory obligation.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government requests from the concessionaire, from the first year of operation, that funds be placed on the blocked account with annual amounts sufficient to cover the costs of removing wind turbines and infrastructure at the end of the concession.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting with a proposal for a wind-impact system as it is for hydropower.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the traditional industries of indigenous peoples to be given greater protection in the processes of energy development by consulting representatives of Sami domestic farming in advance when proposed interventions that could affect their operation.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6720	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the county councils responsible for economic and social development, climate, nature and outdoor life to play an active role in the regional assessment of the need and location of wind power plants.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6737	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to develop clear knowledge-based guides to the Planning and Building Act on methods for weighting the loss of nature, habitats for game species and interventions in important open-air areas as soon as possible.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6754	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a bill prohibiting the destruction of ants.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6772	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the last sentence of Section 12-1 of the Planning and Building Act to: ‘Requirements for a regulatory plan do not apply to concessional installations for the production of energy under the Energy Act, the Water Resource Act or the Waterways Regulatory Act; this derogation does not apply to shore-based wind power plants.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6789	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a concrete tax proposal to come back to Stortinget, which investigates natural resource taxes such as hydropower, environmental taxes and land rents, and ensures that business-based economical development projects also remain profitable after such a possible tax.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6806	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to launch a monitoring of the potential for smaller wind turbines such as farm mills, small plants near existing industry and other infrastructure, and to present such monitoring at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6823	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6919	It shall be counted above VIII, IX and XI to XVII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6933	It's going to be over X. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6947	It shall be added to VI and VII. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary aid. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e6961	It's voted over I-V.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7011	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Stein Erik Lauvås on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for more accurate and effective penalties which may result from breaches of the law and contractual relationship with the public. In this respect, the government is asked to assess access to the imposition of fines equivalent to a share of the turnover of the establishment and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. ‘... The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7040	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider changing the legislation on the setting of the average nursery price in a municipality and to provide solutions that ensure that children with special needs or kindergartens in peripheral areas of the municipality with special operating costs are not included in the average nursery price per child in the municipal kindergartens.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7057	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget, which introduces a clear and strict regulation for private kindergartens by providing a funding system for private kindergartens that allows municipalities to regulate the nursery sector more locally and that ensures the real diversity of kindergartens.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7074	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to clarify the law and regulation on pre-emption rights and to submit legislative proposals to the Storting ensuring public pre-emption rights in cases where the property has previously been subsidised, regulated or disposed of to private persons for the purpose of providing welfare services financed in full or in part by the public sector. The legislative proposal must contain provisions to ensure that the right of pre-emption can be exercised at a later stage in cases where the seller has failed to offer public authorities to use it.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to the Storting on the obligation to report on the sale and other restructuring of authorised kindergarten establishments, or similar activities financed in full or in part by the public or in part or in part have been granted access to properties at significantly reduced prices by the public sector.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7119	The Right, the Progress Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7133	President! That can't be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7138	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7165	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7184	During the debate, Mr Sem-Jacobsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up an independent audit committee with a broad mandate to carry out a comprehensive review of child protection and to propose improvements’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-01.ana.ud458e7288	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
