ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e57	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud from 16 to 20 November. – This application is proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Vestfold, Lozan Balisany, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Vestfold, Arve Høiberg, are invited to meet during the period of leave from 17 to 19 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e84	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e89	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Bård Hoksrud, Helge André Njåstad, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on a nutritious and sensible alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e94	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that the Financial Committee has sent a letter to the Presidency requesting that the deadline for the release of the financial position be postponed, as set out below. Article 43, third paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. The President will therefore propose that the Stortinget, in accordance with Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, derogate from the provision of the third paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that the Financial Committee should give its opinion on the national budget and the State budget by 20 November at the latest. – It is deemed to have been adopted The Presidency will set the date of submission of the financial statement and the date of the financial debate. The revised schedule for the release and treatment of other budgetary positions will also be published as soon as possible. The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 1 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e122	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e129	This matter has been very short on Stortinget, and it is a problem. The Committee has chosen to deal with the matter quickly, because the government has said that there is no cure unless this matter is dealt with as quickly as it is today. I would therefore ask the Council of State to state in his statement how this procedure we now have is sound in view of what is stated in the Proposition on page 11, namely that the response period of the organisations has been set at 13 November 2020, i.e. after the Stortinget has dealt with the matter. As I understand it, it is taken care of in the Roman number decisions that this should be done in a proper manner, but if the Council of State cannot guarantee it, I will probably have to ask that the matter be postponed. So to the content of the case. It's explained. There are two tariff agreements in the State tariff area now relating to wage regulation and the main tariff agreements are no longer organisationally neutral, as they have been before. This is what the government wants. The Working Party, the Center Party and SV believe that this is an unfortunate solution. This means that there are two profiles within the settlement framework, and the two profiles can also show how salary differences can arise in the future. Of course, when you put one of the paychecks fully into the local framework, you will find that the pay gap is increasing. Therefore, the Working Party, the Center Party and SV have comments about this in the setting. We also have comments on the concern that this may have consequences for the striker's right, as more and more of the wage formation is shifting downwards in the system. It is important that government income policy leads to less pay differentials. The size has discussed, even in ours, the fact that there are increasing wage differences also in the state. That is why the Workers' Party and the SV have joint proposals on this. I also see that the centre party has submitted some loose proposals in the matter, and I may get them back to. Then I would like to address the proposals to which SV is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e142	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e147	The fact that two different collective bargaining agreements have been negotiated is a natural consequence of the individual organisation's independent right to negotiate and the parties' freedom of contract. There is reason to stress that this is also based on the freedom of organisation of the employee and the fundamental principles attached to it. The economic framework and the profile of the State tariff area are negotiated between the central parties. This is done to ensure responsible wage developments in line with the front-stage model. The possibility of using strikes as an instrument in the settlement of tariffs has not changed and is not altered by the fact that different main tariff agreements have been negotiated. The main tariff agreement is essentially equivalent to the previous but with different central and local distribution pay systems. It is important that local employers and trustees can work together to recruit, develop and maintain good employees in line with the different needs of enterprises. Local parties may use several different means to achieve this. It's equal pay for equal work in the state, and we should be able to trust that the local parties will also ensure a good pay distribution and equal pay between women and men. Otherwise, this work is also followed up by reporting by state activities. The guidelines for government management’s remuneration systems in the case of post-employment benefits and right-wing benefits are substantially tightened. Government parties are concerned that government leaders do not receive a sustained wage increase higher than other workers. The Government has shown that they are following the development of national leadership salaries and is constantly assessing the need for new measures to ensure that developments stay within the FMC over time. A sample has been notified to be reduced in order to take a closer look at that development, and this is also referred to in the State budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e158	Let me stress that the matter we are dealing with now is being dealt with very quickly – as the President was at the outset. It actually shows the fact, when you're standing here today, that the detachment has not been completed. If the Council of State cannot explain in a good manner how it can be done and what Roman number decisions will be taken in that case, the Central Party will also agree that the matter has to be postponed. So to the very content of the matter: there are two main tariff agreements negotiated in the state, the central party strongly disagrees with this and has been for a long time. I record that the representative Olemic Thommessen believes that there is equal pay for equal work in the state. It's true that it's a goal, but that's not the case, because, as you'll see from the government wage regulation, within the same definition of work, there will be people placed at different pay levels. Then it's not supposed to be equal pay for equal work in the country, but it's at least better in the country than in many other businesses, that's quite right. But there's still a way to go, including in balancing gender differences. Nor has there been an investigation into the impact of the introduction of two different agreements in the country. It should have been, because we know that the debate on changes in wages and differences in our society is great. Then the government should have considered what kind of long-term effects this might have. Otherwise, we quickly end up in a galley that I don't think anyone really wants. It has been a guiding principle that one has tried to have a common agreement. That's what this government has done. I have from this pulpit been strongly critical of this earlier, and I am still. As I said, the discussion of different levels of pay in the state and the wage developments that have been seen has led to a major debate on, among other things. management wages and salaries, etc. That is also the background for promoting the solutions proposed here in the Chamber. Then I look forward to the Council's explanation of how we are going to handle this if the hearing shows that there is no majority to enter into the negotiated agreement among the organisations. With this, I'm taking up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e173	Then the representative Willfred Nordlund raised the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e178	I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement on the main settlement of the year in the state through agreements with the parties. This year's settlement in the country gives an annual salary increase of 1.7 pst. This is in line with the front. The front-line model is important especially in times of crisis as it is now. The frontal model helps to ensure competitiveness and provides a safer basis for high employment and low unemployment in the future. It is an overall policy objective to give more responsibility and increased local space for action to businesses. For this reason, in the most recent tariff decisions, the State has given particular attention to the fact that as much as possible of the financial framework is to be allocated to local negotiations, both in the agreement with the LO State, the Union and the YS State and in the agreement with the Academics. It is important that, as far as possible, the various national businesses are allocated their own resources in negotiations with local trustees. Activities are different and have different challenges and opportunities. However, this year’s tariff settlement is a special settlement both in terms of the economy and in terms of the timing of subsequent local negotiations in the establishments. It has therefore been important for me to reach an agreement that takes into account the needs of businesses for a simplified settlement. I am therefore pleased that, within a very limited financial framework, we agreed with LO Stat, UNIO and YS Stat on central additions that ensure a real wage growth for all, and that the supplements ensure an equal pay profile. In the agreement with the Academics, the entire financial framework is set aside for local distribution. I feel confident that companies will find good solutions in local negotiations with the academics. Moreover, the two agreements are essentially similar in terms of social and economic conditions. I am also pleased that we agree with all four main associations to continue to work on developing the pay system towards the next main settlement. I notice that the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will have the Stortinget's decision that the next main settlement, in 2022, will result in one main tariff agreement. To this I would say that freedom of organisation and negotiation is an important principle of employment in Norway. Employees are free to organise themselves in different associations, which remain free to negotiate agreements on behalf of their members. There is a long tradition of respecting the fact that wage negotiations are the responsibility of the parties in each settlement. Untying the outcome of future wage negotiations would be contrary to contractual freedom. It has also been raised by the chairman of the committee and by the representative of Nordlund, a problem linked to the fact that the vote will be held tomorrow. I have a lot of understanding that this is something that is being addressed. However, we have taken this into account in the Roman Numeral Decision V, which refers to the Service Dispute Act § 31, which gives the opportunity to bring the strike that comes at a possible no in a wrong vote to the Rikswohnsnämnend. So it's that we have a little less time this year than we've had before. This is because the payroll was relocated. This should have been dealt with in ours, coming into the revised national budget. Now it's time and the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e206	Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote its own case for the Storting on new guidelines for directors’ salaries and other types of remuneration for managers in the State, which contribute to reduced pay differentials.’ Several local government ministers from the Right have been sitting and seeing that the differences between people are increasing — between the rich and the common labour force, between workers and between top leaders in the country. Time and time again, there are empty promises to clean up. Why does the Right do not want to support the Labour Party's proposal that enough is enough, and that it must now be cleared up among all the top state leaders, that is to say support the proposal under consideration in the Grand Duchy today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e216	I am responsible for the development of senior pay in the state, not for the development of senior pay in state owned companies or other businesses with partial state ownership, so I can speak for what I am responsible for. It is set a ceiling – it was set in 2015 – of 2 million. kr for managers of the government's management pay system. In 2015, the government tightened up remuneration and right-wing positions for senior executives with annual contracts, and this year I have set an absolute thank-you corresponding to the front-line framework for each departmental sector in terms of salary increases for senior executives on the central government wage system and senior executives on the main tariff agreement. That letter expired on 15 April this year. I have also started work on setting up a leadership pay committee in the state, and the mandate and composition of the committee have been discussed with the main associations. Hopefully, it will also contribute positively to a discussion of the issues raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e222	This wage settlement is an important part of the government's income policy, and here we get to where the government wants to go. One wants to have less country-wide regulation and more local negotiations, i.e. greater differences. But my question goes to the protocol, which is signed by Mats Wilhelm Ruland, and to the mediation, where it says: ‘The broker submitted proposals in accordance with the annexes to the meeting book. All parties recommended the proposal and will ensure that the relevant procedure is continued.’» The deadline for replying was set at 13 November 2020. So the state council is trying to get away from the penile here – that the Storting is dealing with the matter before the organizations have reported back, by referring to V, where it says that one can bring disputes to the National Institute of Wage. I guess it wasn't supposed to be used this way, or is the answer yes to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e236	It is an important paragraph that clarifies what will happen if you arrive at a no at the watch vote, and that means that the Storting can adopt the proposition today. If there were to be no votes in the wrong vote, the matter could be brought before the National Institute of Wage and get its clearance there. It's completely in line with, as you can see, the procedure in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e241	It makes the matter very complicated for Stortinget that this vote is going to be after the decision, and I now ask the Council of State to explain how this decision, which is possibly being taken today, will be considered in a situation. If it were to be a breach, and if it were to become a no, would you not grant this money and come back to a new matter? Or how will the Council of State deal with such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e246	If it were to be such that there would be a no in a wrong vote, the matter would be brought before the National Payroll Study, which is a dispute resolution mechanism. So the outcome of it will say something about how we have to deal with the matter further. If this is the case, then another economic result, it will have to be brought in for the Storting, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e251	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e258	What we're experiencing right now is very special. I have never been involved in such a quick handling of a matter, where one more overdoing comes forward and makes decisions before the organisations have been given the time to give feedback. In addition, this is an important part of the national wage policy. The arrangement involves a supplement for government employees of several billion dollars and is therefore an incredibly important matter for many. It is also substantially normative to other parts of the world of work. What we now have experience under the Right-leaded government is that the wage development of the individual depends on which trade union you are in. Those who are not in a trade union are in the big flock with LO State at the top, but those who are members of the Academics are taken out and given special treatment. The whole supplement for the academics is then given through local negotiations, and no one is going to tell me anything but that it leads to greater pay differences between people, and that's the whole point of the Right Line here. I'm glad that a clear opposition from the red-green takes a distance from this, and I hope it's completely clear that it's going to be altered by any government change. The next thing is that there's only a percentage supplement in the deal. It's not a crown supplement. It's a new example of what the government's priority is. In most other settlements – in the municipal sector and others – there are also crown supplements to balance income differences, but the government is running hard at a percentage. People know percentages. 1 pst. Of 100 is 1, and 1 pst. Of 1,000 is 10. This is something you should live off and pay bills with. It shows both the government's short-term and long-term wage policy strategy, which I also said to a large extent is normative for other settlements in the private sector. As for what I started with, it is stated in concrete terms in the contract protocol that it is to await the parties' response: it has not been done. So here we experience that the Council of State is trying to hide behind Roman number V decisions. I would like to ask the Council of State, which gave the impression that it was customary, that it was in line with normal practice: when has it happened before that there has been such a breach of the protocol, and then referenced to V to resolve any conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e269	We initially agreed to this quick treatment, and so did Storting now by dealing with the matter. I just have to admit that I should have seen this before as the rapporteur-in-Office. I am sorry that I have not done so – I have been told in advance before the matter comes to the Chamber. But then I have to ask the President for help with any procedure if we want to get the matter postponed and discussed in a later meeting. Because there are some principal aspects of this matter that during this hectic meeting I now can't quite figure out. So I ask for a statement on how to do so, so that it is possible to decide on it. The Council of State now says that this is procedure and all right. It's probably both his point of view and his point of view, but we need to be able to go into this and make sure that it is. It's simply because, like what the Council of State says, we want respect for how this happens. I think Stortinget should also decide whether it is okay to do it this way. The extent to which this would destroy the government's work on the aging process is also unclear, because the vote has not been conducted. That means that the matter is at risk of going to the Rikswohnsnämnend in any case, sail if we are not hoping for it. So a little bit to the debate that has been going on on about the trend in leadership pay: the numbers show that this has only increased, and that there is now a need to get through this really. Then I see that the Central Party has promoted a loose proposal in the Chamber. SV will not support it. This is because the last wording of the proposal of the Central Party goes beyond what may be the politically determined wages. This means that you can go into an area of the collective bargaining agreement that is part of the collective bargaining area, and that is not what SV will do – to put it that way – by voting on a proposal that has been put forward in the Chamber today. I am also aware that this has been voted on before, and that time SV had its own proposals that we voted for. That's the principle of this, but the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV agree that we now need a much broader review and stronger measures to mitigate these increased pay differences that we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e280	The President would like to answer the question raised by the representative on the formalities relating to deferral and refers to section 41 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, consideration of proposals to postpone the case or to return it to the Committee. If a proposal is made in this debate to postpone the matter to a later meeting, the Storting will have to decide immediately. Then the President will open a debate on a postponement proposal, and then the President will decide it. If it is proposed that the matter be referred back to the Committee, the postponement proposal will be submitted to the committee at 1 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox Then the President hopes that the procedure for postponement has been clarified, as Andersen asked in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e287	It's a little bit unclear to me if there's been a postponement proposal. In that case, that's not what I'm taking the floor for now, but I'm sure you'll come back to that. I should like to speak on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, which has been promoted. This is a proposal that is similar to one that has been promoted in the past, and the Progress Party supported it at that time. We support proposal No. 4, from the Center Party, in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e294	This case and its treatment do show that the old saying that urgent loading is still valid. Here we have come into a situation where it is not clear what the case is. It's fundamentally objectionable, I think, to deal with a matter where we actually don't know if the basic assumption, i.e. agreement on an agreement, is in place. That vote is imminent, as I see it. Therefore, I believe that there is a basis for assessing whether the case should not be postponed until the assumption is actually in place. Now I see that the Council of State has signed up, so I meet what the Council of State has to say. As I am able to assess the matter, given the debate we have here now, there is no reason why we should not be able to postpone this matter until we have been told whether it is actually in line with the outcome of the negotiation and that there is actually an agreement. The consequences of a few days' postponement can't be so violent, but I expect the Council of State to clarify its contribution. If there are no serious and specific reasons why the case cannot be postponed, the Workers' Party is prepared to submit a proposal – not to refer the matter back to the Committee, but to consider the matter at a later meeting when the outcome of the unreconciliation of the organisations is available. But as I said, that proposal we will consider after hearing the statements of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e303	I don't have to add that much now, after the representative Sivertsen had spoken. We're of the same opinion. We'll have to hear from the Council of State one more time. If we do not also want the matter to be postponed to a later meeting, then we must have the opportunity to promote that proposal. Otherwise, if the matter is put to the vote, SV will also vote in favour of proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e311	Thank you for many good questions. Let me start by saying that it's not unusual that the proposition is dealt with before the vote. But it is also important to stress that this year we are facing a very special situation. This wage settlement was to be in our harbour, and the settlement was to be within the revised national budget. It is not the government's wish that we deal with the matter in a hurry, but we have come into this situation simply because we are in the middle of a pandemic. The reason why it's important to deal with this now is because we're going to get the money into the new age, so people can get the salary they're going to have. So, as I said, it's an opening for what we do if there were to be a no in the vote. The matter is then brought before the national payroll department, and then, of course, the government has to come back to the Stortinget if, at the end of the day, there is a change in the appropriations, a decision to be taken in the Stortinget. It's the Storting that decides when they want to deal with this case, but if you want people to get their salary this year, I think it makes sense to pay the salary increase, I'm told, that we're dealing with it now, but this is completely up to the Storing. Then the representative Lundtigen also had some points of view attached to this that there are two different agreements. I think it is important that we fence around freedom of organisation and contract in Norway. It is also important to stress that estimates show that the annual wage growth of the two agreements has been approximately the same between 2016 and 2019. Wages and salaries should not depend on trade union membership, and I am confident that employers locally will do what is necessary to comply with that principle. So far, at least developments over the last few years show that there is reason to trust them to do so. I also think that the result of the wage settlement must be based on the agreement reached by the parties in the negotiations. Therefore, the size should not bind the outcome of future tariff negotiations, at my discretion. But the most important question here seems to be whether this can be adopted today, or whether to await the first vote, which is due tomorrow. At my discretion it is possible and desirable to deal with it today, but it is of course the Storting that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e330	The centre party is a strong supporter of freedom of contract. There is an agreement between two parties, the employees and the employers. What's special here is that the employer is the government council. The Council of State argues this way: one is happy that there are two agreements. One is happy that there will be a greater spread of income, the spread of wages – glad that the academics will find that the whole pot is distributed locally. That's the core of the matter. If the state had disagreed that there should be two agreements, there would not have been two agreements, because it has been established with this government. That's not the way it's been. It creates a number of complications for all those involved in pay and wage negotiations, but it is a blatant example of what is the government's income and wage policy. As for what is happening now, the government is running a case that involves a breach of the protocol, which is signed by the Riksmökler, the Council of State says that this matter must be resolved now in order for people to receive their salary this year. It is quite special, because in the configuration it is under financing that this is to be financed under the chapter on random expenditure. Obviously, it's like this. «Accident expenditure» is a chapter which changes continuously, and when such funding is involved, there is no problem with the submission by the State of a new budgetary balance without the possibility that it would be clear. The simple thing is that the protocol says that the organisations will report back tomorrow – tomorrow – and then the easiest thing is that the matter is postponed and dealt with in a new meeting, after the organisations have given their approval, in line with the protocol, for which the state must be the foremost one to have respect. Otherwise, the seriousness of such situations is called into question by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e337	That's very unfortunate what's happening. However, I have to ask that the matter be postponed to a later meeting. Like Lundtigen, I can't stand to see that the Council of State can hold the claim that people won't be paid a pay supplement until next year if the matter isn't dealt with today, but on Tuesday next week. I am aware that this can then mean practical difficulties for the government council and the government apparatus, but not worse than that it is possible to make an additional proposition for aging, with the amounts that will be the result of a pay settlement where we know the outcome of the vote. If there is a negative vote, the matter will have to be changed by the government anyway. I am again sorry that I have not seen this before and reacted to it, but I believe we are doing the best we can now to postpone the matter. It may be that the Council of State is right that this has happened before, but I have no opportunity to investigate it now, during the time of the case, and that means that I have landed at this position. For all practical purposes, I cannot see that it should not be possible to solve this by the government, and by the Stortinges side, in such a way that we are sure that one has a result of the ur vote that will take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e344	The representative Karin Andersen then made a proposal that the matter should be postponed to a later major meeting. The postponement proposal will be dealt with immediately and will be decided by the President. The President shall first open a new round, with the possibility of drawing up submissions for the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e353	I do not need to repeat the arguments put forward by representatives from the SV and the Central Party here. I have heard what the Council of State said in its statement, and the Labour Party can see no reason why we should not be able to postpone the handling of this matter until there is actually a result from the vote. For all practical purposes, people will continue to receive their wages. What becomes a discussion, if any, is about the extra pay supplement. But I am absolutely sure that the Council of State will make every effort to ensure that it does, even so that we can help keep the economic activity up during the crisis we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e360	On the part of the government parties, we cannot see that there is any reason to postpone this matter. The important thing here is that all considerations for employees are taken care of. There is nothing in a decision here today that would restrict or challenge the position or opportunities of employees. So there's raised fundamental questions around this, and it's easy to see. It would have been better if the situation hadn't been the way it has now. But we're in a difficult situation, where we've had to make decisions in many crossroads that in normal circumstances might have been viewed as a bit of a narrow turn. I also think the Council of State has expressed that in a good way. The important thing now, I think, must be that we get the necessary decisions in place, so that these funds can be allocated and incorporated into the proposition that will eventually come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e369	I will not repeat everything that has been said, but I will follow up a little of what the Council of State explained to him in terms of his view of a possible postponement. Based on that statement, the Central Party believes that we have to postpone the matter. Let me point out that a postponement in the ordinary state budget has just been discussed and given an opportunity to do so, in so far as it is, to the Financial Committee, and in any case, the new aging has been announced in November. If we postpone the matter until Tuesday, it may not be possible that the state is unable to pay the salary this year. As far as I know, the payroll date in the state is on the 12th, today. That means that this recalculation and supplement for this year is going to be December 12th. Therefore, a four-day delay in the treatment of the Storting cannot be a decisive factor in whether to postpone the case or not. It must be essential to respect the principles set out in wage formation, to know what has been negotiated, and that the parties have agreed and the members have accepted this. The four-day postponement could not possibly be the big problem. The salary is in any case going to be paid this year. The practical consequences are, I am absolutely sure, that both the Storting and the government are able to deal with in a few days' delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e376	Let me start by saying to the representative Lundteg that there is no breach of the protocol. That's what's meant by Roman Numeral Decision V. So to the question of postponement: that's of course what the representative Sivertsen says, that the government is going to make the best effort to ensure that the employees of the state get the pay supplement that they hopefully say yes to tomorrow, and that it is paid out this year, as planned. So we would have liked to have the matter dealt with today, because it would make it easier to get that process to be as it should, and get the money paid out, but I don't want to add any great achievement in it. If it is such that the matter can be dealt with on Tuesday, it must also be possible for the Norwegian Ministry of Finance to adapt to the wishes of the Storting. I'm going to say that my preference is clear that we should deal with it today, but if the Storting wants to deal with this on Tuesday, we'll of course find solutions to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e385	Over the last few months, the size has dealt with a wide range of issues in different ways that have partially deviated from what has been normal. Everyone knows why. There has been a great deal of understanding in this room to try to make the best possible use of things when it can't go as normal. On the basis of the answers given by the Council of State, the Party of Advancement understands that there are opportunities to maintain relationships if there is a negative response in this vote. Nor is it unusual from the past that cases have been treated this way, in this order. In the light of the situation in which we stand, we must continue to try to make the best possible use of it. The Progress Party therefore does not want to support a postponement proposal, as we believe it is entirely appropriate to deal with the matter as it is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e392	I am pleased with the last post that the Council of State made, where he said that there would not be a critical situation, and that people would of course have their pay supplement paid even if the matter were to be dealt with on Tuesday next week. I think it was good that the Council of State answered like this, because I don't think he wanted to put the Storting in such a situation. All the explanations of why this has become – and hastened – fully understandable. That is not what this case has been about. That's the principal part of it, namely that the Stortinge makes a decision before the organizations have been given a yes or no to the result. So there's purely formal reasons for that. I hope we can postpone the matter until Tuesday, that we can then hopefully make a simple and straightforward decision, and that the Council of State does what he said, namely assures us that then the government will work as quickly as it can and get this in place before Christmas. Now we have time to think about this and figure it out for the next time, so we have a system for this. I have at least received a tuition today, which means that I will read all the details even more carefully before I say yes to a quick procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e399	Then we are in the situation that based on the posts held in the Chamber, the President perceives that there is a majority in the Chamber now to deal with the matter and not postpone it. Paragraph 41 clearly states that a debate should be opened, that it should be decided immediately, and that it should be decided by the President based on the views expressed in the Chamber. It is now obvious to the President that there is a majority to deal with the matter today, and then the President decides to do so. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e407	This has been a very interesting debate. We have experienced that the Council of State is humble towards the Storting and in reality acknowledges that there is something here that is not after the book. The Council of State acknowledges that the money is paid out in time, and that the matter can be moved, so that it is done in accordance with the protocol, but the government parties here in the Chamber choose to ignore the state council's open position to reach a consensus on this matter. I only have one question. Several representatives have said that this is not entirely unusual. If there is little time, some in this room must be able to refer to one case where an agreement has been reached between the State and the social partners, signed by the Riksmekler, where it is explicitly stated that the deadline for reply has been set at 13 November, and that the case is dealt with earlier. When did this happen earlier? Those who say this is not unusual should document it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e431	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e438	It has been remarkably easy to be the case rapporteur in this case. For once, education policy at Stortinget agrees. I have to say that it feels good that we can stand together to provide better protection for all children in kindergarten and school. The Committee would like to make it clear that all children in kindergartens and schools in Norway should have a safe and healthy working day in their kindergartens and schools, and that parents should be sure that children are taken care of by employees suitable for the job. That is why it is today a requirement to provide a police record before people enter a job in kindergarten or school. However, the Committee has noted that the police record, or rather the child care certificate, is not a guarantee that the person has not committed criminal offences. It does not provide sufficient information as it is today. For example, a child care certificate does not contain information about the person being convicted of injury to a child, unless it is described as gross. In other words, there are criminal offences that do not appear on the childcare certificate that will be of interest to the employer. The Parental Committee for Kindergarten, FUB, has addressed this issue with the Ministry of Knowledge. The FUB expresses great concern about these challenges related to police certificates for kindergarten workers. The Committee has also noted that the Training Law Committee proposes an extension of the criminal offences to be reported on a police certificate when they are added to school. The selection justifies such an extension that today’s regulation is too snivel to provide good protection for all children in schools and kindergartens. The Committee has therefore agreed to support the proposal from the Progress Party to introduce extended content of police attestations in the case of employment in schools and kindergartens, and the Committee has said that we expect these amendments to be part of the consultation note in the context of proposals for new training laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e451	I think it's very gratifying that it actually happens occasionally in this room that everyone can agree. If there's something that might be extra fun to do, it's just the fight for a safer everyday life for children. I am not in the Committee that has considered the proposal to which I am a co-rapporteur, but I am in the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture. There we also get many enquiries about the safety of children. We've been looking at that both good and bad over the last few years. Fortunately, today there is a completely different focus on, among other things. violence and abuse against children. It has to be combated from several sides. We can't have this silhouette idea that something is education, some justice and some family policy, because everything is related to everything. I think this is a very important step in the right direction. It is simply about closing a hole in the system and not least about giving a complete picture of the person who is applying to work with children. We've heard of examples where people convicted of violence against children actually work with our little ones in whom we're so happy. There have been some criticisms, and I myself know that I have received a number of requests that the legislation has not been good enough at all. Professor Morten Holmboe of the Police College pointed out, among other things: that you can have 10 convictions about body damage on the scroll without necessarily appearing on the police record. I'm very proud that the Storting today sends a crystal clear order from a total accumulation to the government. As the children's representative, it is also important for me to stress that this is just a victory for our children. Our children are entitled to good protection, and when the majority sends off this crystal-clear order today, we therefore expect it to be followed up quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e464	Today, a Joint Committee calls on the Government to propose the necessary changes to the rules so that the police record gives a full picture of the applicant and shows all relevant offences in the cases of school, kindergarten or other places where contact with children is an important part of the position. I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the rapporteur for their good work, and I think it is good that we can stand together on this proposal here in the Grand Duchy today. Violence and abuse against our children and young people is one of the things we must respond most strongly to. We politicians have a great responsibility to do what we can to protect our children and young people. Many important measures and measures have already been taken in this area, such as: in the spring of 2015, the Christian People’s Party had an impact on an escalation plan aimed at reducing the incidence of violence in close relations and at strengthening the custody of children exposed to violence and abuse, following the model of the mental health escalation plan. Now we are making further efforts to increase the safety and protection of our children and young people. A good childhood lasts for life, but unfortunately a bad childhood can inherit. Early efforts are therefore crucial. Being subjected to violence or sexual assault in childhood increases the likelihood of being subjected to violence or assault as an adult. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child requires Norwegian authorities to protect children from violence and abuse. It implies both an obligation to set aside sufficient financial resources to implement the necessary measures and an overall offer in terms of prevention, detection and, in particular, follow-up. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous committee today is lifting the importance of good protection for children and young people. Children shall have safe meetings with adults in institutions where they spend a lot of time in their childhood. Police clearance must not become a sleep cushion. Although the purpose of a child-care certificate is to protect against abuse or serious harmful influence on minors, a child-care certificate is not a guarantee that the garden can be lowered as an employer. All employers in sectors dealing with children and young people must have good follow-up procedures in addition to police records to prevent child abuse. The Christian People's Party has always worked to protect vulnerable children, and we will continue to do so in the future. So we have to work together and do what we can to help all children. The Christian People's Party will fight for a warmer society, a society where children and young people can live a free life without fear of being subjected to violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e481	I am concerned that all children and students should have a safe and healthy everyday life at school and in kindergarten. The requirement for a police record for employees in kindergartens and schools is important to ensure it. But, like the last speaker, I would like to stress that a police record can only be one of several measures to prevent abuse and harmful influence. After all, a clean police record at the time of employment is not a guarantee that the person is fit to work in kindergarten or school, or does not commit crimes later. Individual enterprises have a separate responsibility to prevent abuses against minors. The kindergarten and school must, among other things: conduct thorough interviews, check references, have continuous follow-up of employees and good practices in case of suspicion of infringing behaviour. The police record to be provided is a so-called Child Care Certificate. The criminal offences on it are regulated by the Police Register Act. When introduced in the 2014 Police Register Act, the rules on Child Care Certificate meant a clear extension of the conditions to be displayed on the Police Certificate for staff in kindergartens and schools. In the past, the police record showed only whether the person was intentional, accused, or convicted of sexual assault against children. The pediatric certificate is currently to be used in criminal proceedings involving acts which, in relation to minors, must be regarded as particularly serious and therefore of particular relevance. Today, this includes sexual offences, serious crimes of violence, murder, robbery, abuse in close relationships, trafficking in human beings and serious drug law offences. The rules on police attestations in kindergartens and schools were harmonised with the rules on childcare certificates in the Police Register Act a few years ago. At that time, the size agreed with the government’s assessment not to provide for further extensions of criminal offences to be displayed to employees in kindergartens and schools. We need to have a code that helps prevent employees from committing abuses against kindergarten children and school students, or has harmful influence on them. This is why in recent years the government has tightened the rules on police record in the field of education. I agree with the proposers that there may be reason to consider whether more criminal offences should be shown on the police certificate for people who are going to work in kindergarten or school. I am referring to the fact that the Training Act Committee has proposed that today's rules on police records and employment bans should mainly be passed on to new training laws, but they also propose to extend the criminal code to be displayed on the police record. An extension in line with the committee's proposal would mean that more acts of violence than at present would be on the police record, as the proposers call for. In addition, detention, coercion, sexual mutilation, violations of professional secrecy and violations of the abolition obligation will be covered. I intend to send a proposal for a new training law at the hearing in the spring of 2021. If the Ministry proposes changes to the regulations on police attestations in the Training Act, we will consider whether similar changes should be made to the Law on Secondary Education and the Law on Kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e497	I am very happy to hear that the Council of State has a clear commitment to the matter. It is quite right that the Council of State points out that this is, of course, a fight against child abuse and for the safety of children that must be fought in different fields. However, there are several things you can do from her department as well, and I must say I was a little disappointed when the system of children's protection was not passed on, for which the Progress Party got a say in the last revised national budget. There is one of many bets that the Progress Party has now invested in its alternative state budget in an escalation to combat child abuse. I wondered if the Council of State could elaborate on what other concrete proposals, other than what we have discussed today, she will address to secure children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e502	I think it is very nice that the representative addresses this very point. It is also commendable that this has been raised in a representative proposal, and that it is seen that there must be a broad range of measures, that it cannot be just a police certificate. I also think I should go so far as to admit that I was pleased that the budget negotiations in ours were being implemented to support the project on the protection of children, which is a very good project – and that is not all we can do to continue. I still hope that there will be a lot of positive out of that project, which I believe is a very good initiative to raise this topic in kindergartens. Now I know that there are many kindergartens and schools that are already working systematically on this subject and that are very good at lifting it up. My impression is that unfortunately not all employees feel equally secure about entering this subject, because it feels very demanding, and you also feel that you will often trigger some help needs that you may not have the necessary measures to support. So I think that all, the most important thing we can do, is make the adults in kindergarten and school sure that if they take up this topic, we'll have the support device to follow up the consequences that it actually gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e509	Thank you for that, and I am glad that the minister says she supports the work that has been done on the protection of children. However, the situation was that we had corona. I know that they are doing well in the project, but to get this out in absolutely everyone or at least in more kindergartens – and that must be the goal – there is also a need for more money. This is a project that just takes into account what the Council of State says about disseminating knowledge, and could also handle and work on what is extremely difficult with regard to children. But if it is then correctly understood that the Minister will put a good word into the negotiations with the Progress Party so that we can make an impact of 10 million. For children's protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e514	Now, those negotiations are in the Finance Committee, so my hope is that the Advance Party has raised it high on its priority list and made sure to fight with beaks and claws to get it through, so at least I won't be negative about it. What I think is so good about that project is that it contributes to a very clear placement of responsibility. I think that's what it's all about, that you know that there's at least one -- like more, but at least one -- in every nursery that has this as its task, that can get into it, that can spend time on it, and that can raise your skills and get even safer on it. I think that's a very good model, which I think is an interesting idea that we can really move out of that project and try to see if we can expand to other areas too, both to the public kindergartens and to the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e522	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e541	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e549	First of all, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation in the matter. It is not the first time we have dealt with this type of representative proposal, and in addition to this matter we have actually put together two representative proposals and made a common position. I noticed that some loose suggestions have also been submitted as a result. In any case, it is important to note that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that private kindergartens are an important part of the childcare provision in Norway. So I would like to stress that user surveys and monitoring show that private kindergartens provide children with a very high quality offer. Employees are also given good pay and working conditions and, in particular, the grants are well managed for the benefit of their grandchildren. Private kindergartens will also be an important part of the childcare provision in the future, as it contributes to diversity through different educational approaches, such as: thematic children's gardens, and more disciplines are also included. With the proposal for a representative to be discussed here today, it is also appropriate to point out the recent steps taken by the government, which has not least been adopted here in Stortingen with a view to amending the Kindergarten Act, and it is that we have set up a national supervisory body that will strengthen the control of private kindergartens and the economy. It's under construction. I also think it is important to stress that the possibility for kindergartens to take dividends is well regulated by general company law, but not least by the nursery law. The kindergarten sector must be given the opportunity to develop the possibility that different owners and actors, such as small and large ideals and commercial and small and large municipal kindergartens, are part of the offer that exists around the country. In this way, the best provision is made for childcare facilities adapted to the needs and needs of different families. Long-term user studies have given us a clear picture that parents are more satisfied with the offer provided by private kindergartens. This shows that private individuals contribute to a positive diversity in the sector, creating greater will and capacity for innovation and creativity across the sector. Different fields of activity, profiles and solutions have given us a number of thematic kindergartens, ranging from open-air kindergartens to real-time kindergartens – so it has given us more players and a more targeted bet in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e563	In summary, you might say that the kindergarten agreement and what has come into the cold water of it has helped to secure a good sector with a good offer. But then there has also been a change in the sector that has led to some need to make changes in the law. A lot of work has been done recently in Stortinget, and the government has notified further steps, so I am looking forward to a comprehensive review of this at a later date when the matter is before the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e566	This case reminds me a little about the play «While we are waiting for Godot» by Samuel Beckett – the breakthrough of the absurd theater. Wikipedia can tell that the play is about two people waiting for Mr. Godot, who never shows up. The piece, when it was set up for the first time, broke with all the traditional dramaturgy. There is no time or place aspect in the theater, and the actions are illogical. In this room, the play is called, while we wait for Melby. We're waiting for a law that never shows up, we're waiting for a government that breaks all the traditional dramaturgy in law, where the actions must be said to be illogical and now have no time aspects. State Council Melby is the third council member who has promised a new comprehensive child care law. The law has been at the hearing several years ago, and it is worth recalling today that the Council of State Sanner, when he was Minister of Knowledge, stated that it was the law that one then had about kindergartens, was both out of date and old-fashioned and not good enough. We've had to wait. While we wait for Melby, the loopholes in the out-of-date code will continue to work. It has, for example, recent records have been set for the purchase and sale of child care properties in the billions class. The dirtholes that open up for profit, that the money doesn't go to the kids and better kindergartens, keep going. And while we're waiting for Melby, in this case, the opposition continues to make suggestions to seal these loopholes, but is again disarmed by the government parties. I would therefore like to address the proposals which the Labour Party is behind in this matter and clarify to the solutions proposed today that the Labour Party wants to vote in favour of the proposal No. 14, 15 and 16 from the Moxnes representative, but do not want to support the proposals. 12 and 13, when proposal No. 13 has somewhat unclear consequences and proposal No. 12 is seen as butter in the bottle and really just confirms that there's a law coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e579	Then the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg addressed the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e584	Cooperation between the country, municipality and private kindergartens has been successful. It has contributed to diversity, freedom of choice and almost full child-care. Half of the country's 300,000 kindergarten children go to private kindergartens. Most private kindergartens are of high quality. They represent a great diversity. They have consistently lower sick leave. They are effectively operated and best cut out for parental studies. The Progress Party is very proud that 17 years ago we made a kindergarten settlement, and we are committed to pursuing a policy that guarantees the freedom of choice for parents and the diversity of private kindergartens. We therefore do not support any of the proposals made by these representatives. When I first went into the kindergarten agreement, there was a deal with SV 17 years ago, and I have to say I am very disappointed with SV, which is first there inviting the private ones in. Private users then use savings. They invest time and resources, leisure. They do maintenance and snowing on purpose to get a kindergarten up to go into a sector where very many run with deficits. We see that when they may have been operating for 15 years, they want to sell their business, they are referred to as welfare professionals and something we have to distance ourselves from. In addition, SV has been subject over time to several regulations and an increasingly crippling rhetoric towards the private sector. Then it might not be so strange that small isolated kindergartens want to sell to chains. They may not be able to stand up to any more regulations and, in the increasingly tougher word change that is in the public debate. When SV writes in comments that they are very concerned that the diversity of the kindergarten sector is threatened because a handful of large actors are getting more and more control over the private kindergartens by purchasing them, they may be accomplices in that development because they want more regulation. They want to make everyday life more insecure. When they propose today to ask for a stepping up of public and ideal ownership and operation of kindergartens to ensure that kindergartens are run by public or non-profit actors, and push out the private ones, we must be able to say that SV has formally thanked for it in the kindergarten conciliation and slammed the door again. At the hearing, I asked the Swedish Private Barnehagers Association what it would cost if the public would buy out all the private ones. Then the answer was that it would cost almost 40 billion. kr. So private people get equal pay, but they do better on parental studies. The question should be how we can learn from them, and not how we can spend 40 billion. I want to erase them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e599	The centre party is working to ensure that we have the best possible childcare facilities, and believes that the focus must be there in front of an acute debate. In fact, we have babysitting throughout the country, thanks to half private and half municipal kindergartens. Kindergartens are an important venue for child inclusion and development. They help children learn from other children and are followed up by employees who know children. The centre party is concerned that they should be followed up daily, and that the offer should be close to people, namely in the municipalities, and that municipalities should have the best possible starting point to ensure good kindergartens. With that, I will refer to the proposals of which the Central Party is part, and also take up the proposal of the Central Party and SV, because that is what we want to achieve, among other things. through transparency of accounts and quality. It is an important point that the local government sector should be able to effectively control any abuse of government grants. The Educational Association has recorded: ‘Any cut in the grant of the pension grant in the current grant model must only be made if an overall review is carried out at the same time, where other elements of the grant are also considered.’;» The Council of State points out in its letter of reply that there is ongoing work to respond to the Storting’s request decision on that very matter. I also think it is worth mentioning that the level of conflict between kindergartens and operations and grants has been cloudy. The sector feels that parts of the legislation are complicated, in particular the provisions on how grants and parental payments can be legally used, and that is what we need to do at the heart of. The Council of State points out that in the current legislative process, more reports have been submitted in order to get more facts on the table and that the legislation is not adapted to developments that have occurred. At the same time, rules are being put in place to increase transparency. The centre party then wonders what the relationship could be between the national supervision and the local nursery authority that municipalities should continue to have. Because it is an important point that both families with children in kindergarten, those who run kindergartens, and local people have their hands on the wheel when they are the administrators of the grant. The centre party works for the best possible offer for kindergarten children. The grant is for the benefit of the children. The centre party believes we need to keep focus on a good kindergarten offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e619	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e624	The reason why SV promoted this proposal was that the Storting in our modified kindergarten law. The government parties and the Advance Party were then given the decision that private kindergartens can have profits free of charge. This could not be watched by SV, because it is the children who are to benefit from the nursery, not commercial owners. SV is very proud that we took the initiative and made a kindergarten settlement in 2003, and then made sure that this was carried out too fully during the red-green government period. Providing all children with legal rights to kindergarten and ensuring full childcare must be said to be the largest welfare and education reform in recent times. Unfortunately, we have recently seen a development in the sector where government grants to kindergarten and parental benefit do not benefit children, but benefit private owners. There are too many examples of the fact that kindergarten owners have made significant profits through the sale of kindergartens or kindergartens. Kindergarten operations are changing from being a welfare service to becoming a store for large commercial groups. SV is very concerned that diversity in the kindergarten sector is at risk. A handful of large actors are getting more and more control over the private kindergartens, by purchasing ideal and individual kindergartens. In recent years, the number of kindergartens in commercial kindergartens has increased, while small and ideal kindergartens, which are so well mentioned here, have been put under pressure and bought up. In the period 2005–2017, almost 1,000 new commercial kindergartens arrived, while the number of ideals was halved — half. Growth has mainly occurred among the largest chains. I still hear politicians from the right speaking rosy words about the diversity of the sector, last from the representative Steffensen. But they don't want to talk about the clear speech of the numbers. If we are to have real diversity in the kindergarten sector, we must ensure the phasing out of commercially motivated ownership. The variety is best ensured through the ideal kindergartens. Then I register that the representatives Steffensen and Gudmundsen say that the parents in the private kindergartens are so happy. What they're not saying, which is the problem of their argumentation, is that the investigation is not good enough, because it's arranged so that you don't distinguish between ideal and commercial kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e641	Will the representative of Fagerås address the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e646	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e652	The representative of Mona Fagerås then addressed the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e657	Kids shall have the freedom to play, learn and develop, and the future of our children shall not be defined by their parents. The kindergarten shall be a safe playground for play and learning; it shall be accessible to all and an important arena for community and development. The most important thing we can do to ensure that young people grow up safely is early work on prevention, and kindergartens are a central part of this. Providing all children with legal rights to kindergarten and ensuring full childcare is the largest welfare and education reform in recent times. The contribution of both public and private actors has been crucial to our success. The left will ensure diversity in nursery services. The important thing is that our kids get good quality in the kindergarten offer, not if the kindergarten is run by private or public. There is no contrast between good quality service and private operation of kindergarten. The debate on the future kindergarten cannot be about private or public ownership. It has to be about how we ensure that everyone has real access to kindergarten, that the family's economy does not prevent children from going to kindergarten. For this reason, the government proposes to strengthen the economy of families with children by increasing the level of child welfare and the one-off benefit. Therefore, the government has introduced two national moderation schemes for low-income families: free core time for 2- to 5-year-olds from low-income families and schemes requiring no family to pay more than 6 pst. of its income for a nursery place. The left believes that we need to continue looking for new solutions: more flexible opening times, shorter waiting times and a guarantee of kindergarten. It is important that the public funds used in private kindergartens benefit the children. I am therefore pleased that the government has started a work to ensure transparency around the economy of the private kindergartens, among other things. has its own financial supervision to follow-up in practice in 2020. In order to ensure the high quality of childcare services, both in public and private kindergartens, kindergartens will have to have good and predictable framework conditions in order to develop high quality provision and ensure long-term investment both in skills and in construction and infrastructure. As this sector has evolved a lot in recent years, it has given us some challenges that today's legislation does not take into account. I am therefore pleased that the government is working on a further revision of the Kindergarten Act, and I look forward to new proposals being submitted to the Stortinget. We believe that the nursery sector needs to be given opportunities for a development that allows for different owners and actors, so that both small and large ideal and commercial and small and large municipal kindergartens are part of the offer around the country. In this way, it is best to ensure that childcare facilities are adapted to the needs and needs of different families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e676	Private kindergartens play an important role as a major part of the overall childcare provision in Norway. They contribute both to meeting a quantitative need and to improving the quality of the sector. Private kindergartens contribute to increased diversity, diversity we need to protect because it also increases family freedom of choice. One of the most important things a society can do is to help all children get a good start in life. Children shall be given the opportunity to explore and be able to be guided in play and learning. They shall have stable adults around them who have competence in children and understanding of the needs of children. Therefore, it is necessary that private kindergartens have good and predictable framework conditions in order to develop a high quality of provision. One of these framework conditions is predictable funding. Here, on the one hand, we need to ensure that these kindergartens can build good skills and have decent construction and good, decent outdoor areas. On the other hand, we need to ensure transparency and transparency in how the money is spent. I understand that the proposers are concerned that the public funds are being used for what they intend to do. I myself believe that today we have a good overview of how public funds are used, and with the newly created national supervision, we want to ensure in an even better way that government grants and parental payments benefit children in kindergartens. In addition to creating good framework conditions and transparency in the funding system and ensuring that government grants and parental payments benefit children, it is important to provide room for different types of owners in the sector in order to maintain diversity. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of ideal ownership in the kindergarten sector. The Government Parties agree in the Granavolden Declaration to provide better conditions for non-profit organisations and for social entrepreneurs so that they can contribute to solving important tasks in society. We also have an opportunity to ensure the freedom of non-profit actors from state over-management and good framework conditions that safeguard the specific nature of the sector. It's also a central problem. Among the ideals in the nursery sector, we have seen an increased pressure on buying, and we must therefore recognise that part of the nursery sector is under pressure. That is why, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that the government now intensifys its efforts to ensure better conditions for the small and ideal kindergartens, just to ensure good and predictable framework conditions. I and the Christian People's Party have clear expectations for the government's ongoing work to follow up proposals for amendments to the kindergarten law that were sent to the hearing in 2019. The same is true of the government's efforts to take care of the small and ideal kindergartens in order to ensure a diverse kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e697	All the money allocated to our kindergartens should go to the best of the children, not to enrich any commercial owners. But what we see now is a commercial uniformation, where a few large commercial companies buy up and own more and more kindergartens, at the expense of ideals. Kindergartens have become profitable speculative objects, including for international purchasing funds. It is therefore good that the red-green parties now go in to ban dividends from kindergartens, but it is very close enough, for commercial owners collect billions of dollars from kindergartens, not only through direct dividends, but also through complex corporate structures – and not least through property sales. There have been several cases where kindergarten properties, built on free or cheap plots from the municipality, have been sold to the international fund for billions. The welfare professionals in the Learning Workshop have sold kindergarten properties to Swedish SBB for 4.2 billion. kr. The Adolfsen brothers, Norlandia, last year sold kindergarten properties to an Australian pension fund for 6 billion. kr. Then they took out 600 million. kr in dividends, right in your own pocket – you have to have salt in the pot. These are big values, which are extracted from kindergartens through real estate. Nevertheless, the Committee does not consider the proposal of the Red Group on childcare facilities for children, not property speculation, in a serious way during the comitology procedure. This suggests that the other parties do not fully understand the problem of private profit from kindergarten property. Many kindergarten owners separate the properties of their own company so that they can rent out the properties to themselves. Morten Thuve in BDO, who wrote the report on capital structures in private kindergartens on behalf of the government, states: ‘What we see in such cases is that the rent charged to the accounts of kindergartens is often doubled or tripled.’ The Community finances kindergartens. Therefore, the community needs more tools to prevent property speculation. A new kindergarten law is needed to ensure that taxes and parental payments granted to kindergartens go to the best of the children. Red will have the vacuum cleaners of commercial companies in the common cash register. We want to give municipalities a democratic space for action to control the kindergarten offer, and we want to remove the pre-driving right that exists today for commercial actors. I welcome the support of the Labour Party for the proposals No. 14, 15 and 16. I hope the Center Party and SV agree with the Workers' Party. It's going to be exciting to see in the debate whether we get the support of an overall opposition at these points. I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e713	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e718	After Tvedt Solberg's contributions, it is a bit tempting to begin with that although we are in the middle of a pandemic, and although I assume that life in opposition can be frustrating in between, I hope that the representative does not feel like the paralysis of action and sublime as Vladimir and Estragon in the well-known piece «While we are waiting for Godot». What we are going to debate today is important and far from meaningful. It is about the private part of the kindergarten sector that has been the subject of long-term discussion and debate. In recent years, the sector has undergone significant developments. The sector is now almost fully developed in large parts of the country, and there have been several large kindergarten chains that have a number of kindergartens in different municipalities. They have different organisation and sometimes complicated structures. In the Ministry of Knowledge, we have spent a lot of time and resources providing us with an up-to-date knowledge base on private kindergartens. It shows that evolution has given us some challenges, which today's legislation does not take into account, and there are challenges that the government is taking seriously. We are committed to having clear and good legislation to ensure that government grants and parental payments benefit young people. The government has therefore introduced a new framework plan, stricter staffing requirements and pedagogical standards, and recently it has been decided here in Stortinget that children in kindergarten should have a safe and good kindergarten environment. Everything we do is because the offer to the children is the highest priority. It is not right to say that we have not done anything about the legislation. Before the summer Stortinget adopted two key changes to the Kindergarten Act. Firstly, we made clear the provisions on the requirements we set for the use of government grants and parental payments. The new provisions do not allow for the withdrawal of funds to a greater extent than has been provided for in previous provisions, as the proposers claim. The changes only make it clearer to the private actors what framework they need to stay within. These requirements include, inter alia: related trading is to take place under market conditions. This implies that if leases are concluded between parties having a community of interests, the parties must demonstrate that the rentals are determined on market terms. Thus, today's provisions take into account that an owner should not be able to take disproportionately high profit on rental prices for the children's home. Today’s legislation also requires that a private nursery should not have significantly lower staff costs than the municipality. The second central change adopted by the Stortinget is the establishment of a national economic supervision of private kindergartens. We are stepping up our efforts to check that the private operators are complying with the legislation. It is based on a recognition that tasks have become more complex and resource-intensive in recent years. My department is also working on following up other regulatory proposals that have been put forward at the hearing, including a proposal for reporting obligations in the event of sales, closure or other restructuring, and introducing clearer accounting requirements, which should also ensure that supervisory authorities are better informed and more documented about the economy of private kindergartens. And then I want to stress in the end that it's important that we actually take time, and that we don't adopt changes that have major unintended consequences, because it will have consequences not only for the owners, but also for the children who go in all these kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e740	I can reassure the Council of State that one is not as paralysed as Vladimir and Estragon, but it is sometimes quite frustrating to sit in opposition. That's it. Both the state councils and the representatives of the other government parties have boasted quite unhindered by what they formerly called a slight adjustment to the law. We hope, of course, that the complete review of the Kindergarten Act is right around the corner. But a change that was made is that the national economic supervision, which was also boasted of, is established. I hope the Council of State can say something about how far the start of this supervision has come, and I wonder if not the Council of State also finds it problematic that we are now getting a new financial supervision that will work and supervise based on an old-fashioned and out-of-date legislation, to quote a former Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e749	I can reassure the representative that the supervision is now under construction. In Molde, it is co-located with the Education Directorate, which supervises the boarding schools and the way they spend money. The goal is that, at least during 2021, we will hopefully have full supervision, and that, in parallel with building up this oversight, we will have the legislation that is necessary for supervision to do its job. I believe that this is the most important measure we can take to ensure that the money for private kindergartens is used for what we all agree to use for, namely the quality of the kids. As it is today, where we have gradually got a structure of private kindergartens in many of these big chains, it is completely impossible for a municipality to supervise them. They can oversee single-child care in their municipality, but they can't oversee how a large chain governs their economy, so I believe that national supervision is a necessary step, and I feel sure that it's going to be a supervision that has a high level of competence and will help us ensure that all the money comes to the best of the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e758	I agree that supervision is important, but I hope the Council of State also sees that an up-to-date and good law and regulation is perhaps even more important for such supervision to work, and hopes that the Council of State can confirm when a new comprehensive law can exist. I would also like to ask a question about an explanation for the question request yesterday. There the Minister of Knowledge said that the Ministry of Knowledge made an overall assessment of the grant system for private kindergartens, in response to the representative Roy Steffensen. To Stortinget, the Ministry has previously said that one has not followed up the Stortingen decision to review the funding system. Here, there may be a slight difference between the words of a user, but is it correctly understood that the Council of State believes that a review of the financing system for private kindergartens has already been carried out and that the government considers that its work on the funding system has been completed, based on the changes it has presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e768	In the department, we believe that we have carried out an overall review of the funding system. Now I'm a little uncertain about the timing of these decisions. It is possible that no further review has been carried out after a decision has been taken, but that we believe that the review that had been carried out before was sufficient to give us that overview. In that case, I have to look into that in order to give a very precise answer. But it is clear that, over the last few years, we have actually had several reviews that have looked at different parts of the funding system. We have also made adjustments, both in the design of the capital grant and now, in the proposal for a new government budget, in the design of the pension grant. And with the latest adjustment we are now proposing in the pension grant, we believe that we have looked at all the parts, and believe to the extent that the funding system is correct. So I don't think we're going to be done with it, because this is a sector that's changing, and we have to be careful. We are committed to providing good framework conditions for private kindergartens. We are concerned that they should be fully funded and have funding as well as public kindergartens, and then I think we need to be open all the time to see if the funding system is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e777	Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre are concerned with some of the same issues, but with slightly different input. To take the last first: I think it's a point that we're not doing as bombastic measures in regulations and laws as there are claims about kindergartens. We have an equally varied offer that we have the number of municipalities, almost. We at Stortinget must be able to take account of how this is rigged locally, when we are going to rig our arrangements. I wonder what makes the Council of State think that there has been an overall review of the funding system, when the parties, among others. The Education Association, quoted in the setting of this case, and those representing the private kindergartens, both Works and PBL, the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, have stated that they do not recognise themselves in the overall review. What makes the Council of State think that they have had an overall review?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e784	I record that several people claim that there has not been an overall review. We have repeatedly referred to both the time of that review and what has been the result of it. I guess some of this might be about that one disagrees with some of the conclusions that have come as a result of those reviews. I think it is very nice that the representative draws up that it is a diverse sector, and that it is important that we see that different owners have very different needs, and that we need to make a regulation that takes account of it, and not so bombastic when it comes to, for example. the intentions of the different actors. What I didn't want to say in my post, and as I would like to say, is that what we're looking at is, among other things, what we're looking at. how we can get a funding system that balances even more the small operating disadvantages that smaller players have, that makes us manage to preserve the diversity we have, and that not all are necessarily swallowed by a larger chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e791	I noticed that in the answer instead the Council of State pointed out that they had gone through all the parts, but from the centre party I would say that some of the point here must be that we can see the funding in one whole, and how it turns out for the whole when we now drive and tighten to the different parts and make changes to the law. That's what we're missing, and we hope we can do that before that request decision, which is still inside, is signed out. I also wonder about national supervision. The Council of State says that this is a necessary step, but the letter of reply to the Committee points out that the costs of childcare are to be related only to day-care activities. It must then apply to the individual nursery. I wonder, then, how can the Council of State feel that national supervision should take care of local democracy and the local variation in the childcare provision, which we are committed to caring for?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e800	I want to start by saying that in the last few years there have been a number of municipalities that have prioritised efforts related to just supervision, and that have done a good job of controlling the economy in private kindergartens. But we also see that for many municipalities it is difficult to ensure that they have the right skills to do such a job, perhaps especially because the structure that private kindergartens have got today, makes it a much more complicated task than it was maybe ten years ago. That's why we've been thinking that setting up a national supervisory board is a good move. I would also like to stress that municipalities are still to have an important part of the supervisory work, namely to secure everything other than the economy. It is also a very important part of the supervision of private kindergartens, and the municipalities are still to do so. Then I believe it is right that it is the municipalities, which are the nursery authorities, who are sitting on the competence of the contents of kindergartens, who are still going to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e807	The newspaper published a case a couple of weeks ago about Safe Barnhager, which shows that the company has 87 subsidiaries that are separated from kindergarten and that are purely rental companies. This resulted in $36 million in 2019. kr in profit. Through this kind of creative corporate structure, it is possible to hide cash flows from kindergartens to private fortunes. It has previously been revealed how the Adolfsen brothers have made millions to sell properties that they have received cheaply or for free from Norwegian municipalities, to an Australian purchase fund. These examples weaken the confidence that the community's money will be spent on what they intended to do, namely to create good and safe kindergartens with a high quality of play and learning. Does not the Minister really share the concern, after repeated disclosures in the media, that money in Norwegian commercial kindergartens does not go to the children at all, but to private profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e814	There is no doubt that I share the concern. We have seen that there have been large profits related to the sale of kindergartens. The challenge is that this has been made possible by legislation that has been there for a very long time, even from the time when SV directed the Ministry of Knowledge. The reason we had that legislation was that we were in a phase with a major shortage of kindergartens. There was a great need for development, and there was a need for private actors to contribute and participate in the important job of expanding kindergarten capacity. Then we've ended up in a situation where someone's made money on it. It may have been that you should have seen it 10–15 years ago and made a different code then, but it is very difficult to make a retrospective code that would have prevented it. It has also been fully possible for the municipalities, for example. to have clauses if one either gives away or sells plots very cheaply, to ensure that this is not resold with great profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e819	Melby indicates that rent is regulated by the Children's Court Act, but one in six kindergartens rents by related property companies, which are not then governed by the Children's Court Act. As SV mentioned, the Dagbladet has mentioned that property companies in the Safe Kinderhager chain serve the multiple of the kindergartens to which they rent out, which have the same ownership. Here is a two-digit million sum that goes straight out to the property company through a high rent, and then we have bypassed the provisions of the Childcare Act on house rental regulation. So many kindergarten owners are separating kindergarten properties in a separate company. Does councillor Melby think that this is done for fun, or could it be to bypass the kindergarten law and facilitate the extraction of profit? What measures will Melby take to prevent super-profits in kindergarten properties, as has been documented in Norway here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e826	As I also mentioned in my article, today's legislation also contains regulations that say that if rental contracts have been concluded between parties that have a community of interests, the parties must be able to demonstrate that the rent is fixed on market terms. This means the price that would have been agreed between two independent parties. The supervisory authority will then be able to monitor, based on possible risk assessments of breaches of the legislation, whether the rent is too high in view of the applicable legislation. I have great faith that the new national economic supervision could be much more specialised and could thus build on specific competence to make assessments related to what is a market price. I fear that this is a task that the municipalities have not been able to follow, but that I have good faith that we can do better with a new national supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e831	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e838	Thanks to the interaction between private and public actors, there is today full kindergarten coverage, and the private kindergartens, not only the individual ideals, but also the kindergarten chains, have contributed to innovation and new ways of thinking about pedagogics. The right wants the most diverse kindergarten sector, with up-to-date and good framework conditions and legislation for private and municipal kindergartens, and it is therefore good that this is what the government has been working on. But for SV and Red, this representative proposal is not about getting a code without a loophole; it is essentially about suspecting almost all private kindergartens. The fact that, as ideologically opposed to private ownership by definition, Red does not want a variety of actors in well-being is not really a surprise, but that the Workers' Party is adopting the same rhetoric and now also politics is very alarming. Private kindergartens have the same requirements for staff, for pedagogical density, for the framework. Almost everyone has tariffed wage and pension conditions, parents and children thrive, pedagogical density is actually higher in many private kindergartens, and many private kindergartens have taken the lead in developing good quality. Nevertheless, quite cynical single examples of crime are used to try to label an entire sector. It's a picture that neither kindergartens nor parents and families recognize themselves in. If the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV had been adopted today, a public monopoly is actually introduced in the sector, and it will be expensive – it will cost about 40 billion. kr, and this will lead to a worse offer. This is already seen in the cities governed by the Workers' Party. In the middle of a pandemic, hundreds of millions of dollars are spent buying out private good kindergartens, and then you come with the proposed cut in the school and kindergarten budgets. I have to say that for solution-oriented, more pragmatic Labour Party politicians, who have done a great deal for the kindergarten sector since the 1980s, it must be bad to hear how the representative Tvedt Solberg talks about private kindergartens and the diversity that is in this sector. There's a very big difference between what the Workers' Party said four years ago, and what they're saying now. Four years ago, Jonas Gahr Støre said that the most important thing is that the services are good, and that kindergartens meet strict requirements for quality, number of educators and staffing, and if those who invest their own money in making good kindergartens, take the risk if things go bad, and yet can earn some money and get some profit if it goes well, it's not a problem. Today, not only rhetoric is completely different, but, in fact, politics as well. Proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are, in fact, a dividend ban in the sector, and then, in reality, the hook is put on the door of the diversity we have in the sector. In the past, the Workers' Party did not want to be clear on that, but it is now black on white today. I think a good welfare mix also gives good kindergartens – and that's for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e858	We in SV believe that public money and parental pay should go to those for whom they are intended, namely the children. Think how good kindergartens we could have had about the money instead went to good, safe outdoors, 50 pst. kindergarten teachers with good pay conditions and even better staff! Yes, think how nice it would be to send their children into such a kindergarten. SV believes that parents — and society, for the rest — must be able to be sure that kindergartens are operated according to what is best for children in the long term, not what is profitable for owners in the short term, and will remind the Storting that we have actually adopted a law that states that government grants and parental payments should benefit children in kindergarten. Nevertheless, every year large sums do not reach the young. Only in 2018 did the private kindergartens go by 1.2 billion. kr in profit. 10 pst. went to the dividends to the owners. This amount is only the top of the iceberg, because the big money is in the hidden dividends. Complicated corporate structures, sky-high corporate fees and trading with affiliated companies are just some of what they do to move money from the community to themselves. But it's about the sale of kindergartens and properties the big money is lying around. The class struggle has revealed how the Adolfsen brothers have earned billions of dollars to sell properties they received for free or for cheap money from the municipalities, to Australian purchase funds. It is absolutely necessary that we introduce reporting obligations and pre-purchasing rights for municipalities when selling kindergartens. It is obvious that Australian buying-in funds have purely commercial motives for engaging in Norwegian nursery operations, miles from the motives of both public and non-profit actors. It is serious when an important part of the infrastructure of the Norwegian education system is owned by non-resident pension funds and is outside democratic control. The minister said in his reply to me that someone should have done something about the law 10–15 years ago. It becomes strange to blame SV when you have been in charge of the Ministry of Knowledge for eight years and SV has proposed this at least seven times in the last few years. We have to put an end to the commercialisation of the nursery sector and to the power and determination being taken from people and elected people and given to them by money. It weakens the confidence that the community's money will be spent on what they intend to do, namely make good and safe kindergartens with a high quality of play and learning. We now had an opportunity to rebuild that trust, and I am disappointed that the majority of the Storing will not be involved. Finally, I would like to say that we support Red's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e873	It's almost touching to hear Right Caring for the commercial companies, but it's just almost touching. They know just as well as we do in Red that when billionaires invest in the kindergarten sector, when Australian buying-in funds buy up in our kindergarten properties, it's not primarily because these actors care a lot about the three-year-old in the sandbox, but mainly because they see the possibility of installing commercial suction pipes in the common fund. Large profits, stable profits year after year, where they drain the single fund for private enrichment – that's why they go into the sector. That's what makes the majority of the population want no more of this. The majority will have a profit-free kindergarten sector like school, care for the elderly and child protection to ensure that the tax money, granted for well-being, goes unabated for the purpose and not to fill in the accounts of billionaires or purchase funds in Australia or where it should be. So to Melby's answer in the lines: our point is that the kindergarten owners set up real estate companies to make it easier to pick up profits than the kindergarten law opens up. That is why the Safe Barnhager earns two-digit million on this alone, as the Dagbladet has documented and mentioned. A number of others do the same thing. The Council of State has recently stated, even written, that the government will ‘ensure that the money will be given to private kindergartens in State aid and parental pay will benefit the children’. It is the reverse that takes place right in front of our eyes. Then I miss a clarification from the Central Party on what they think about Red's proposal. After all, we have taken inspiration from the Centerpartie's own programme proposal, from the proposals No. 13 and 16 and not least from the adopted Resolution of the Government of the Central Party of 2017. There they state that ‘the Central Party will work for a law that ensures that funds allocated to kindergarten operations will go to this.’ – It is well formulated and adopted by the Central Party’s national government. When these funds are collected through overpriced rent, the funds do not go to the best of the children, but they go to private enrichment. Our proposals are intended to ensure that the money, as the Central Party itself seems to believe, goes for the purpose and not through property structures and transactions are taken out for private enrichment. I really expect the Central Party to come up to the pulpit and give its support to our proposal, as the Workers' Party and SV have done. Otherwise it's an interesting line break if they don't. So I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e886	It has been a great job to get babysitting around the country. It has been a great job to start up and build up kindergartens and ensure what has been a welfare promise in many ways. Then there is a concern for the centre party when we are about to throw ourselves around and make measures and changes to the law that make it difficult to keep the operation up in smaller kindergartens, in ideal kindergartens, in orphaned kindergartens, in natural and farm children's gardens. We are taking our legs away under very good initiatives that are absolutely essential for us to have babysitting, which I believe and experience that the whole Storting wants. Moxnes is very concerned with the program work of the Center Party, and we appreciate that, but what's true is that this is a draft that's at the hearing of the Central Party Party Party. We're going to work towards the national meeting to get different views on just how we can ensure that we also have babysitting and a variation in the provision of babysitting across the country. This work has not been concluded, so we are not in favour of any of Rødt's proposals here today, although it is also taken from the formulations of our party programme. We will have to come back to this once all the members of the Central Party have said their words and the national meeting has finally adopted these wordings, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e893	Listening to the representative of Moxnes with his communist ideology stand here and have a turn towards private, and where you want to align the kindergarten sector, may not be so horribly surprising. There is no focus on the best of children, but it is who is driving the kindergartens that are in focus. It may be worth noting to several parents, who are constantly giving private kindergartens the highest score when you look at what offers you want for your child. When we also know what the benefits are in the sector after the introduction of both the standard of manning, the standard of education and a number of quality requirements, and we have at all events hit the sector in such a good way that the intention of the law that the money should come to the best of the children is, to the most extent, followed, I almost fail to understand what is really the motivation of the Moxnes. But what's even more difficult to understand is that the other red-green parts are hanging around in rhetoric. I think it is worth lifting up here, at the bottom of the debate, that today, in fact, the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and SV are promoting proposals for a ban on dividends. Proposals are made to regulate the number of places to be allocated by the municipality to individual private kindergartens. What does that mean? Once you have been given the opportunity to operate a kindergarten, and then you have to have a municipality and a local government, ideologically coloured, which suddenly has to be able to reduce the number of places and thus weaken the operating base – what will it do? Together with the ban on dividends, it really helps to color what is the will of the red-green parties now, that is, slow, but surely to take the suffocation of the entire private nursery sector. It's quite serious given that you've had a hard-working promise through the nursery arrangement, where you've now got full babysitting, where they see how happy your parents are, and where they see how well-regulated the sector actually is. There should be a good input into the rather strong political change of words into the 2021 elections. For those who are concerned with the best of the children and for those who are concerned about operating the public sector with a diversity of freedom of choice, where the focus is on quality and content, and that we are constantly working on the best solutions for the citizens, there is no doubt that today's government and a civil majority should be allowed to continue, because the red-green option has now taken a strong step left and is close to the skirt of the Moxnes. I think that is a very serious danger signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e904	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e909	I haven't had any skirts, but I'm very happy that we're taking the other parties with us. It is quite right as the Right says; there has been movement – not least in the Labour Party, I think – because not least the opinion, the trade movement, the population are tired of billions of taxpayers disappearing from the welfare fund of the community. Tax crowns granted to kindergartens, child protection and care for the elderly are taken in large sums for private enrichment. It's the people most tired of it, and it's the Workers' Party that's noticed. And not least: Red is in the Storting, and we're pulling the rest of the field with us. A new majority, if we get it – or when we get it – to ensure, at least in our view, that we get rules that ensure that the money goes to the best of the children and not to private enrichment. That's our purpose. Today's decision is set up as an uplifting one. We're going in the right direction, not far enough, but we're moving the field with us, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e914	The representative of Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e919	In a case that concerns kindergartens, one must almost be childish naive, but when the representative Gudmundsen in his post does not mention the fact that the money for Norwegian kindergartens, which the parents pay, and which the government gives to the municipalities to use for kindergartens, does not go to the children in kindergarten, but for profit, I must almost be allowed to say that it is childish naive. He doesn't mention that there are sky-high governance fees in the sector. He says nothing about the Australian buying-in funds, which have profited in their minds only when they buy up Norwegian kindergartens. He doesn't mention the free properties that are now being sold to the big chains. And he doesn't mention the fact that there is no diversity in the sector at all, but that there are fewer and fewer owners and more and more kindergartens. It's childish naive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e924	I believe it is in place to draw the attention of the representative of Fagerå to the fact that in 2018, which is the last approved overview we have, which is from before we were able to put in place all the requirements relating to the standard of personnel and the enhanced standard of education, was the proceeds from the ordinary private kindergartens of 88 million. kr. I remember this is a sector that's close to 30 billion. kr, with the parental pension funds entering the sector. There is no doubt that there is a disappearing low yield and a disappearing low accounting profit that lies in this sector. It's said that it's very lucrative, but I don't think you've been able to cover it, because you've actually produced a number of good reports that show that it's good quality, that your parents are more satisfied, and that your kids get what's in the law, that's a good kindergarten offer. I look forward to the future, through the treatment of the notified revision of the Kindergarten Act, getting a good framework for the sector, which means that we ensure this diversity, that we get transparency, that we have control, and that we get a debate that can be based on this information, these facts, and not that one engages in an ideological struggle, which I now experience that the left side is taking on the private kindergartens. In addition to a proposal to introduce pre-buying rights for municipalities, and it is known that other proposals have already adopted both a ban on dividends and that local authorities should be able to cut in number of places, there is no doubt about what is the intention of the red-green parties here; it is to get rid of private kindergartens in Norway and to make this a purely public operation. It will eliminate the diversity that we have in the sector today. It will not lead to better services as far as we can see and with which we have experience. This will also lead to a weakened offer for the parents, and I hope that we will not experience it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e950	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e957	New technology gives us countless opportunities. We can get better treatment, more adapted help and get healthcare with a keystroke from the sofa. We can stay at home longer and take care of ourselves. With more digital home follow-up, health professionals can also spend more of their time helping patients, in a way that patients are also well pleased with. Therefore, we also need to facilitate the use of more welfare technologies and more healthcare technologies in the coming years. When we're going to apply new technology, we need people with us. Then we can't lose anyone on the way. Older people might need more help mastering digital solutions than the ones that grew up with iPads from they were small. We also have to do more to keep people from falling off. That is also the background to the draft representative that we are discussing here today, which has good intentions. There are eight different proposals in the vote, which I assume are presented by the individual parties themselves. What I can briefly say is that what many of the proposals have in common is that there are measures that the government is already doing well. Freedom of health is already being strengthened. It is important for more people to master digital aids. It also provides for the possibility for people lacking basic digital skills to receive digital training as labour market measures. More welfare technology is being rolled out. The welfare technology programme includes, inter alia: have been important, and it will continue next year. However, one of the most important things we can do to make use of more well-being technologies is to ensure that municipalities take a greater responsibility to roll out more of it. In order to ensure good health care through new technologies, the population also needs to have good health skills. This is why the government has put forward its own strategy to increase health skills in the population. It's also the way that when we're going to apply new technology, we need a good network. Fortunately, we have that in Norway. Almost all households in Norway have a basic broadband offer. The government has the goal of 90 pst. the population shall have high-speed broadband before the end of the year and is well on track to achieve that objective. So the proposal from the Workers' Party that the government should set itself a target that all the country's households should have satisfactory broadband capacity is to open open doors. I think there are a lot of good intentions in the proposal. I absolutely share the view that we should limit digital exclusion, but the proposals are already well taken care of and bear the impression that there is little innovation in the Workers' Party. Rather, they seem to be a blueprint of the policy already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e976	We wrote this proposal after Norway had been shut down for weeks. The infection rates were going down, and we were facing a number of relaxations on the measures. We had just known the isolation of the body. Many were hit hard by the fact that the world was digitized almost overnight. We have all experienced the relief of action during the summer, but I still hear about workers who have been in the home office since March. Too many people are probably starting to think about it. Even I have to admit that it feels good that I have to meet here some of the days, although I am also sitting a lot at home now that we vote with only half of the representatives present. Now the infected areas have adopted social containment. We have been told to stay at home as much as possible. Several meetings are held again on different digital platforms. Several may trigger digital Friday games again or other social actions where we are together individually. But what about those who are not part of the digital community? How are we going to include them and take care of them? A few years ago, the Evening Post wrote about the former assistant Eva Nordlie, who is now a pensioner. Eva is one of the more than 400,000 affected by a digital outhouse. It's a heavier everyday life than many in the younger generation might be aware of, she said at the time. It is for those like Eva that we have promoted this proposal for a representative – to work towards digital exclusion, to prevent that physical isolation also means social isolation, to prevent loneliness, which the Workers' Party has actively worked with during this process of mass destruction and has been given the advantage of being part of the community's public health work. The Pensioners Association points out that digital exclusion has major consequences when more and more public services become digital. Digital training is important for everyone to have the opportunity to participate in society. The Korona crisis has further updated the need for a shift in broadband development. The State must take responsibility for facilitating broadband deployment in areas that do not have the potential for business profitability. Our proposals are about infrastructure such as broadband and digital tools in the care of the elderly. It's about digital communication between patients and healthcare. And it's not only about training and the role of volunteer players in this training, but also about creating the social arenas that many people are not now getting involved in. Finally, it is more likely that the Right may have been inspired by this representative proposal, for more money for digital training came into the revised national budget. The same was true of a health-free regime, as we promoted in this proposal for a representative. With that, I take up the proposals of the Workers' Party and the proposals on which the Workers' Party shares with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e995	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1000	The development of digital communications and digitalisation in general has been rife. This gives us ever new opportunities, but it is also demanding to hang out with. The coronary apathy has forced, in a positive sense, new knowledge for some and each. The most used sentences in the last few months I think I have to be: do you hear me? You have to turn your microphone on. Or: Can the person who kisses teeth now mutate his microphone? Those who want to participate in society are actually dependent on being involved in development. It obviously poses challenges. My children can barely understand how it was possible to live without the digital world that we now know, but that did not exist when I was a child. When my grandson, only three years old, sighed when I tried to find the right adventure on the iPad, and took control, I think the next generation will do well. And fortunately, many of the older people, who haven't gotten the digitization in with their mother's milk, have their own children, and not least grandchildren, to teach them. There is also reason to suggest that grants have been awarded for several years to non-governmental organisations engaged in such training. I now have quite many years behind me in this house, and I feel that all parties have been concerned about these questions, and that there has been a lot of work to tackle the challenges that some people face. The demand for data rates and availability by the population has been increasing. Nearly one hundred percent of households have a basic broadband offer, and 86 pst. by July 2019, high-speed broadband is offered by households. We demand more and more, and I even notice how incredibly frustrating it is when things don't work as they should. Care plan 2020 has facilitated the assistance of 32 municipalities with funding for the development of welfare technologies. Well-being technologies provide enormous opportunities that can make life both better and safer. However, the Cancer Association points out that it is a challenge that many digital solutions are not known among users. Here the municipalities have a job to do. They themselves have a self-interest in making the solutions known, and I encourage the municipalities to focus on this. Voluntary organisations also make an important effort to limit solitude and contribute to innovation and training in digital tools. In the context of the revised national budget, the Progress Party received an allocation of 400 million. to prevent solitude and inactivity among the elderly. Several organisations and municipalities have applied for grants for digital tools. There are many good intentions in these proposals, in fact so good that this is work that has already started years ago and has been strengthened year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1021	The Labour Party has put forward several proposals for a digitisation promise to prevent outreach. There are proposals to roll out welfare technologies in municipalities, to intensify work on digital communication between patients and healthcare services, to launch training programmes for digital empowerment for the elderly and others, and to propose an early-stage system to ensure a digital transition to the free movement of health. In addition, it is proposed that all households and businesses in the country should have satisfactory broadband capacity. The People's Party believes that the Workers' Party's proposal to secure satisfactory broadband capacity is too vague. Here, we need to make clear demands on what we think with satisfactory broadband capacity, as we have done in the proposal we are making, and that this should be done by increasing the state's commitment to broadband expansion and introducing public universal service obligations in areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion. The centre party does not agree that the national welfare technology application should be terminated. We believe that most of the proposals from the Workers' Party belong in a new welfare technology program. We present the following proposals together with the Workers' Party and SV: ‘The government is asking the Government to continue the National Welfare Technology Programme with the aim of making welfare technology an integral part of health and care services by 2025, and to submit such a plan to the Stortinget. The programme must include incentive schemes and measures to roll out welfare technologies in all municipalities, increase digital communication between patients and healthcare services, involve volunteering and non-profit organisations and measures to strengthen digital competence in the population and prevent digital class separation.’» The National Welfare Technology Programme is a cooperation between the KS, the Directorate for eHealth and the Health Directorate and shall facilitate the use of welfare technologies by several municipalities. The aim of the programme was that welfare technologies should be an integral part of healthcare services by 2020. The program was adopted by the red-green government in the big news Tomorrow's care. Thus, the programme was due to end in 2020, but the government wrote in the State budget that the measures should be extended by 2021, and then we should wait for an evaluation. We don't think an evaluation is needed to determine that this program needs to be carried out. For there is one thing that is certain, the objective of welfare technology being an integral part of healthcare services in 2020 is not achieved. We therefore believe that the programme must be continued and followed up with concrete and clear efforts. I would also like to inform you that, after a closer assessment, the Centre Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 3 to provide skilled workers with the necessary access to courses and relevant digital training.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1039	Then the representative Kjersti Toppe has made the positions of the Centre Party clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1044	SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party are proposing a national welfare technology programme so that we can use more of the knowledge we have to help people. SV promotes this proposal to look at the whole and to involve those using digital tools. SV votes in favour of the other proposals of the Workers' Party. We are not promoting these issues, as we believe these proposals should be in a comprehensive plan to increase the participation of those using these solutions. For SV, and myself, it is also important that digital tools should not be used instead of physical social meetings. In the Corona era, I think everyone feels that digital tools are a bonus, but we need physical contact. Not everyone will, or can, use e.g. Zoom or Teams. Many elderly people have not used these tools, and we should not use these solutions to remove physical contact. We need people to come and meet face to face – whenever possible. I'm the visitor friend of the Red Cross. It's very good for the person I meet – and for myself. Many elderly people in hospitals, and those living at home, can get help with these digital solutions, but for SV, it is even more important to hire more people in the care of the elderly with full, permanent jobs. I am promoting all the proposals SV are in favour of, and at the same time I am warning that we will vote in a secondary direction for the other proposals that SV does not promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1055	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, then presented the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1060	The government is engaged in preventing digital alienation. More and better digital solutions will help to make health and welfare services better and more accessible to citizens. The government prioritises digitisation high, and I believe that the representatives' proposals are well taken care of through efforts to develop broadband, develop and disseminate digital services in healthcare and skills and training. The contribution mechanism of non-governmental organisations contributes to the increased digitisation of voluntary work. It's a goal of 90 pst. high-speed broadband shall be offered by the population by the end of 2020. We're good at achieving this goal. The offerers are building up too fully. Our role is to create good framework conditions so that commercial actors continue to invest in all parts of the country. But this is not enough to prevent digital alienation. We need to make the solutions better known to the users, and we need to ensure digital competence enhancement. Users must be able to activate the solutions. The Government aims to offer training in basic digital skills to all who wish to do so. Public libraries, volunteer centres, pensioners' associations and local senior clubs make a significant effort to provide training. The efforts of voluntary, private and public enterprises have helped to improve the digital skills of the older population. We work with KS and Competence Norway to help municipalities establish the Digi aid for people with little or no basic digital competence. The digidel.no website is set up to share training resources. Centres for Age-Friendly Norway, the Elder Ombudsman and the Age-Friendly Council of Norway are important drivers for addressing challenges facing older people in the field of digitisation. During the coronary apathy, it is possible for the unemployed and the outpatients to take education without reducing the daily allowance. Nav may provide training as a labour market measure. Digital solutions are important instruments for the realisation of the patient’s health service, and digitisation and welfare technologies provide many people with opportunities for a better and simpler life. That is why we have proposed the continuation of the Velferdstechnology programme by 2021. At the same time, we need to assess how work on welfare technology should be continued in the coming years. The aim is for welfare technologies to be an integral part of healthcare. It can help older people to stay at home longer and to experience safety and quality of life. At the same time, it offers great opportunities to make better use of the total resources available to us in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1079	As I was in my post, we know quite a lot that there are many people who are affected by a digital outsidership. We have different estimates of how many there are, but the article in the Evening Post that I referred to has the number 400,000. My question to the Minister of Health is: Do we know anything about how these have been through the pandemic, and how have the government and health services worked to reach this group? Those of us who are digital, who have had other arenas, may have had a little bit different, had other opportunities to both tell about how we are, and also to socialize with others. So we really know something about how it goes with all of these that haven't been on the arenas that we've been on these last few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1084	We have no concrete knowledge of this based on an indicator that there is a lack of digital competence. But we've been busy with that, for example. from the health and care services, when one went over to a very large number of the offers became digital, it was still open that someone had to come to the medical offices, and one made concrete assessments of that type. The fact that more people were at home and got services digital also made it safer for those who could not or did not want to use the digital services to get to health care. What we have done is to mobilise the voluntary sector, which the representative Moflag was also involved in his post, in order to increase the digital competence of this situation and make use of digital tools, and it is a pleasure to see the extent to which you have gained it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1089	Another dimension related to infectious disease prevention measures and how fast things are now happening: it is now that there may be changes in legislation from one day to the next, and weeks later there may be new measures. I have followed in comment fields where I live, and there is a lot of good digital communication that is being used now, you might get a text message with a link – here are the latest infection protection measures. The government has also focused on this in its budget with communication actions, requesting that municipalities have many communication people available. But how do we reach those who are not digital when it comes to information about up-to-date disease prevention measures? Do you have any extra efforts for those who cannot follow 24/7 on how the rules develop?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1094	We're trying to reach them in many ways. What reaches the widest is what we do through the media, with the national press conferences, but also with the local press conferences. I think the rapporteurs are very good at being available, and I also think that the media are very good at conveying also pure factual information in this situation. I think some of those who lack digital skills prefer to get the information on radio, television and paper newspapers, and there'll be a lot of information there. And then we're also giving extra funds here, and it's probably targeted specifically at those who have cultural and linguistic barriers as well as digital barriers, for example. We have volunteers working and looking for those who have the same cultural and linguistic background. This is done both through initiatives in municipalities and through some of the means that we have given to volunteer work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1101	One of the things that fascinates me a little – I don't have a number on this – is that there are still a lot of people in the older garden who use text-tv. It happens that I get screenshots – that’s what’s fascinating – I get pictures of Messenger from something someone has read on text-tv. So it's actually a channel that quite a lot of older people are still using, and what might be a bit of a challenge now, is that what you watched on TV two days ago, maybe still doesn't apply. Do you know if there is a channel that actually contains the infection protection information for the target group that is actually still using text TV? As an elderly person, I get a lot of enquiries about things on text-tv, so it's clearly still in use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1106	Unfortunately, I can't answer that on the standing foot.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1111	I have a question to the State Council on the welfare technology programme, which expires in 2020, but, as the government has said, it will be passed on to 2021 – i.e. the National Welfare Technology Programme. The aim of the programme was that welfare technology should become an integral part of healthcare services by 2020. Now I hear the Council of State say from the Chair that there is still a target, but that it is still uncertain whether this programme should be passed on. My question is whether the Council of States does not see the need for a comprehensive plan. Today we have received quite a number of suggestions that go on a single basis. Do we not need a comprehensive programme, a plan, to pass on welfare technology, and what is the government's objective of when welfare technology is to become an integral part of health and care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1116	Today lives about 90 pst. by the inhabitants of municipalities participating in or having participated in the Velferdstechnologies programme. It is registered approx. 82,000 users of welfare technologies, and most of them are aged 67 or over. There is a wide range of technology used. It can be anything from the simple, as a social alarm to much more advanced technology. It's true, as the representative Toppe points out, that we are proposing to continue the Velferdstechnologies programme in 2021, and set aside 91 million. kr to it. We also need to use 2021 to look at what is the most appropriate way to secure this work. We still have a goal that stands by layers, but it is also a good idea to put a foot in the ground and assess whether the Welfare Technology Programme is the right way to do this after 2021, or whether there are other ways to do it when we get up to the level that we are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1123	Although there are many municipalities participating in the programme, it is far from participating in the programme that welfare technology has been an integral part of the health and care services of all municipalities. That's where I feel that there is a lack, and that's where the big job is still – really getting it integrated into the health care services from trial schemes and projects to that it's an integral part. I assume that the Council of State agrees with me when I say that today there is not an integrated part in much of the country at least, and that is what we have to do. When will the government and the government decide how this is to proceed? I'm concerned that municipalities are not going to step down now, that a person feels like he's going to be involved in the construction so that this is actually going to be part of the health and care services in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1130	That is what we are going to decide during 2021, and I fully agree with the description from the representative Toppe. There is a lot of technology in use, but there are often pilots and single examples. Now, what's left is just to get the whole service to change the way a job works and let this become an integral part. This is exactly the challenge we now have to address, because the Velferdstechnologies programme has an over-focused focus on technology, and not on what the representative really has to face, namely how the service integrates the technology into what is the core tasks, and uses it integrated. That's exactly what we need to look at. Now we are also in the midst of a reform, living our whole lives, where this is also an essential part of the thinking that is needed to achieve the goal. We also have to look at this in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1138	The cord shift is over. The debate on substance is closed. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1157	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1164	The representative proposal here is promoted by SV and acts, among other things. on the national production of medicinal products and medical devices. There has been a written hearing in the case, in which six recordings have been made. The Ministry has also expressed its opinion on the proposals in letters of 3 June this year. We are in a situation in Norway where there has been an almost explosive lack of medicines. In 2014, we had 112 registered cases. This year, the number seems to be 1 500. There is a situation that is not unique to Norway, but that can still put us in very difficult situations, demanding situations that a joint committee expresses concern about strengthening the situation we are now seeing around covid-19. Preliminary figures this year show that until now — fortunately — serious new dramatic consequences of the epidemic have been relatively prudent, but it is clear that there is something to be taken into account in the coming year. Therefore, a Joint Committee has pointed out that it is desirable to have an increased production capacity for critical medicinal products in Norway. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, also considers that it is gratifying in this respect to provide a solution through the EEA Agreement where Norway has become part of the EU's procurement cooperation with regard to the availability of future covid-19 vaccines. In the Committee's position, there is a majority on one point and there is a desire to call on the government to strengthen R & D cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry, so that public research funds can contribute to both increased participation in clinical studies and, at the same time, improved access to medicinal products for Norwegian patients. So a little towards the end of the Workers' Party's vision in this matter. We are in a position to comment and promote a number of proposals for action, because we believe this is a field on which further work needs to be done and active work needs to be done. We also have a proposal together with the Senterpartie that the government submits a case to the Stortinget to establish a national pharmaceutical company that can stimulate Norwegian pharmaceutical and vaccine production either on its own or in cooperation with the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry. We recognise that this is not all we can do here in Norway on our own, but the potential to limit the adverse effects of drug shortages is thought that we have not yet been removed, and we have also seen a government that has spent disproportionately long time getting on the road with important measures. Therefore, there is a need for effort, and it may be a solution to look at a separate pharmaceutical company that cooperates with the private industry we have here, to further develop health industries, but not least to ensure security of supply to Norwegian patients, who are completely dependent on critical and important medicines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1177	When discussing pharmaceutical production, we need to distinguish between the production of finished medicines, what we find in the medicine shelf, and raw materials – active pharmaceutical ingredients, also called APIs. So, are you talking about self-production of APIs, or are you talking about self-production of finished medicines based on imported APIs in Norway? The main reason for drug shortages globally is that the world is dependent on a few API producers, mostly in China and India. The supply chains are fragile, which is a problem in large parts of the world. In addition, Norway is a small market with low prices of medicines – a small market with low prices – let us remember that. In the debate, there seems to be a confusion about what one thinks — self-production of APIs or pharmaceutical production based on imported APIs. In addition, there is a distinction between medicinal products for patents and generics, which also complicates this picture. The deficiency has long been a major source of experience in the lack of medicinal products, and the shortage varies. There may be some medicines in one period; in another period there may be some others. The fact that the Norwegian State has to have a flexible solution with many production lines for a number of active substances, as far as there is a shortage, is quite unrealistic. As far as StatMed is concerned, there has been an interesting debate. Karita Bekkemelm wrote in the class struggle a little while ago: ‘The ambition of state development and the production of medicinal products is terrible management of both oil wealth and tax money. However, the starting point, that the State should contribute to Norway becoming more self-sufficient in critical medicinal products while creating jobs and export income, is an excellent idea.’ I think this quote sums up this matter quite well. We have a goal of increasing activity in Norwegian pharmaceutical production. We have proud traditions and an industry to build on. Building this from the bottom of government is not the way to go. It's about getting more self-sufficient with critical drugs, not self-sufficient. That is simply not realistic. No country is self-sufficient in medicines. Everyone's dealing with each other. Some 1600 active substances are marketed in the form of more than 2 500 medicinal products in Norway. It is impracticable to build up a self-production with the aim of self-sufficiency. Norway produces some medicines itself, but will always be dependent on imports. Building emergency production in cooperation with external suppliers is the most dangerous route. Building a state-owned company responsible for this is not appropriate. Drug production is very resource-intensive and specialised, and we need to facilitate increased activity in pharmaceutical production in Norway, together with increased preparedness storage. Our goal is to increase activity in the Norwegian health industry, not to build a state enterprise, in this context. Finally, I would like to stress that a solid majority in the Committee shares the objective of moving a greater share of the production of both finished medicines and active pharmaceutical ingredients into our part of the world. To do that, European cooperation with this is important, because here we are in the same boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1199	Drug shortage is a growing challenge. In 2019, there were 1,242 registered cases of drug shortages here in Norway. We're 100 pst. depending on the import of medicinal products. It makes us vulnerable, especially under the pandemic that we're in now. 80 pst. the raw materials of the whole world pharmaceutical industry come from China or India. India adopted export restrictions on 26 pharmaceutical active substances in March, and thus also the medicines produced by them, to ensure its own population under the coronary apathy. Such situations and the growing lack of medicinal products in Norway that we also experience at normal times mean that we need to rethink about the emergency storage and production of critical medicinal products here in Norway. Supply challenges of Paracet, antibiotics and vaccines will have dramatic consequences for our population. However, the solution is not to establish a state company. This with the production of medicinal products has not been done by the State. There are eleven private pharmaceutical companies in Norway that are already manufacturing medicinal products on the market and it is clear that they can increase or expand their production if a better market is created for it. It is likely that several new Norwegian pharmaceutical companies may also be established if it is publicly facilitated. The Party of Progress is very positive in facilitating the production of medicinal products in Norway. In May, we promoted various proposals to ensure emergency production for critical medicinal products in Norway, including antibiotics. The progress party expects the government to work on blasts to deliver on it, even if they did not support this proposal when it was adopted. The Progress Party is today promoting proposals together with the Centre Party and the SV to ensure the security of supply of critical medicinal products in Norway through the sharing of contracts published for the purchase of medicinal products. The main share of the contracts can then go to the cheapest supplier, while a smaller part of the contract can go to Norwegian operators to ensure emergency production. Ensuring preparedness in their own country is not contrary to the EEA Agreement. On the other hand, such a contract model will help Norwegian operators to start up a market and can ensure their competence and capacity to contribute more when the main supplier is faced with supply challenges. However, we must recognise that Norway will always be dependent on the import of medicinal products. Therefore, I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is small incredible that the Centre Party is so opposed to the EEA Agreement that they cannot even recognise, in the context of this case, the purchasing cooperation Norway has with the EU in relation to the corona vaccine. There are many things to criticise the EEA Agreement, but the Centre Party is now showing a principle approach to the EEA where they are directly opposed to cooperation even when it serves Norway. I really don't understand. How the Central Party believes that Norway should ensure our own population access to the corona vaccine without being part of a major buyer would have been nice to explain. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1214	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1219	Finally, that's the way the comment is written, which means that we don't belong to it, because not only countries that are in the EEA are able to access the vaccine. On the other hand, lack of medicines is a global problem that comes from the fact that there are many supply chains, that Norway is a small country and a small market, and that we have little self-production. A viable production of medicinal products in Norway and cooperating countries could contribute to strengthening access to medicinal products in Norway. There are 12 manufacturing companies in Norway that have both technology, competence and the capacity to produce most medicinal products there is a shortage today. But production is specialised, and it will take time to establish the production of new products as a result of a new emergency situation. We mean that there's a need for public-private cooperation to ensure this. To the proposal to create a state-owned company to ensure the national self-production of medicinal products in Norway, we believe that the intention of the proposal is good, but we recommend that the proposal be adjusted. The pharmaceutical industry is in unrelenting concern for an operating model based only on emergency production. A more resilient model will be to establish production facilities that operate competitively and market-driven operations in a normal situation, but with an established public-private partnership on preparedness production. The pharmaceutical industry also refers to the need for a national emergency stock for medicinal products and medical devices and indicates that many new hospitals are now being built without land to such stocks. The NHO pointed out in the hearing that such a state-owned company should be the economic instrument of the State, for example: in the form of an investment fund to realise the ambitions of the health sector by strengthening existing production capacity in Norway and establishing new companies and development capacities for tomorrow's vaccines and the processing and establishment of long-term contracts ensuring both the import and national production of the necessary medicinal products. We propose, together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, that all hospitals, both existing and new, should have the area to create local emergency stores, and to extend the use of emergency stores also for medical devices. We propose, together with the Socialist Left, a broad Nordic cooperation on the production and storage of medicines and infectious diseases equipment in Norway. In this way, together with the Labour Party, we propose an alternative proposal to StatMed to ask the government to establish a national pharmaceutical company to stimulate Norwegian pharmaceutical and vaccine production either under its own control or in cooperation with the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry. We in the Centre Party will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 5, from the Labour Party, and we subsidly support the so-called loose proposal of the Labour Party. I take up the proposal of the Central Party has with the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1234	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1239	In 2013, we had less than 100 drug-deficiency cases. In 2015, we had over 100 cases. In 2017, we had over 300 cases. In 2019, we had over 1,200 cases of lack of medicines. For example, Norway has: missing penicillin, which is the basis for the health care system as a whole. All the defects are difficult for those who need the drugs they don't get. This government has not secured our country. SV's proposal on StatMed will secure the country. Earlier this year, we received a majority in SV together with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party to set up a preparedness model for Norwegian production of important medicinal products, including antibiotics. The government voted against. SV expects the government to follow up. We have to remember our story. When the Workers' Party proposed Statoil, the right parties laughed. They thought that private people are always better at producing things. I think and hope people understand that what the right parties said was completely wrong. Statoil was small when it started, but now Norway has made a lot of money. The state is the main shareholder, and the earnings go to our common welfare state, not just to the elite. The resources go to better schools for the children and better hospitals and hospitals. The pharmaceutical companies earn raw money. After all costs, the pharmaceutical companies have over 13 pst. profits per year. SV proposes StatMed, which is important for preparedness and to reduce drug shortages in Norway, but also for the community to have part of the wealthiest of them today. I am promoting the proposal on StatMed and the second proposal from the SV. We shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 4 and 5, and we are voting in favour of proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1256	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson then addressed the proposals he referred to and made clear what proposals SV was behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1261	The market for medicinal products is global. It also applies to the supply chains. Uncertainty in relation to the coronary apathy has made it necessary to take exceptional measures to ensure access to medicinal products in Norway. Systematic follow-up to the Health Directorate's recommendation for 2019 helped to speed up the preparedness level in March. Among other things, we have imposed export restrictions to ensure that medicinal products and medical devices remain in Norway, and we have built up expanded national emergency stores. Raw materials have also been purchased in order to produce some critical medicinal products where necessary. Access to medicinal products is a common challenge for all European countries requiring active cooperation with the Nordic countries and with the EU. It now applies under the pandemic, but also in the future. The safety of supply for medicinal products and medical devices is a complex issue that needs to be addressed by different measures, both nationally and internationally. For a small country such as Norway, it would be neither feasible nor sustainable to build a state-owned production company or production capacity that ensures national security of supply and meets the needs of healthcare. The study of how future stockpiles can be set up does not exclude the possibility that production in Norway can contribute to ensuring security of supply in specific situations. However, production will need to be seen in conjunction with other national and international measures and assessed as one of several elements in order to enhance security of supply. For example, we want to ensure access to narrow-spectrum antibiotics in the Nordic region, also as an important part of the fight against antibiotic resistance. The global market for narrow-spectrum antibiotics is limited. The Health Directorate is therefore to conduct a potential study for the production of narrow-spectrum antibiotics in Norway. Access to new and promising medicinal products is primarily ensured by the participation of patients in clinical studies. The government will shortly submit an action plan for clinical studies. In this plan, we come up with measures to help add more clinical studies to Norway. I also refer to the government's proposal for a State budget, where we propose to strengthen the allocation to health regions by 30 million. kr to establish a stronger public-private partnership on clinical studies, called NorTrials. The government works actively to ensure access to innovative medicines and to secure the supply of medicines and equipment needed by the Norwegian healthcare system. A state-owned production company is not a realistic solution for achieving this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1284	The Health Minister said in his statement now that the pharmaceutical market is global, and I fully agree with that. In my AUF era, we had a slogan, think globally and act locally, and I think that can also apply to the issue of drug shortage. So, over the time of Höie, the Minister of Health has gone from 112 cases of lack of medicine to about 1,500 cases this year. It's not the Minister of Health's fault, but we have a common responsibility to do what we can to act locally, to limit the adverse effects of this. That is why I am pleased that the government is now following the Labour Party in the proposal we had early last year about emergency storage. Once finally put in place, I hope that will be an effective and effective measure. My question to the Minister of Health is, in this regard: When we see the government coming after emergency storage, can we expect that the number of deficiencies will finally fall in Norway, from 2021 onwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1295	Firstly, I must stress once again that the representative starts writing history at a very late stage, for the proposals that came from the Workers' Party were proposals that the government had already initiated before the Workers' Party made its proposals. As regards the issue itself, emergency stocks are linked to critical medicinal products for which it is important to ensure access, so there will be one of several instruments to reduce situations of lack of medicinal products. But I stress that this is a complex question, and that there is no one solution to the question. It's a combination of a lot of different solutions that need to, including more extensive international cooperation. Fortunately, Norway is part of the EEA Agreement and therefore has good cooperation with the EU, which is one of the most important issues on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1302	I thank you for your answer. It might be that I cut a little bit of the story. Among other things, I have in writing. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2014, he has been warning of the growing lack of medicinal products, but also of having a response from his own health minister in this way. In any case, it is good if it is now that the government implements powerful measures to do what we can locally in Norway. Another question is, what do we do with the vaccine needs we now have? I am very pleased that we have an agreement with the EU that we will get a share of the vaccines they buy, but my question to the Minister of Health is: is there anything more to do in this regard? Does Norway help in any way to increase production so that we can access vaccines more quickly in both Norway, Europe and the rest of the world? And what, if any, is the Minister of Health that, in the future, if a similar situation should arise, we are better prepared to take up production capacity in Norway, the Nordic countries or Europe – if that situation should arise again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1309	I do not believe that history writing is the strongest side of the representative, nor do I believe that the representative of Stensland has said what the representative here said. But I remember the representative of the story, that it was the Workers' Party that discontinued vaccine production in Norway. We work in very many areas to contribute to good vaccine production capacity internationally. Not least, we are doing so by being part of the EU purchasing system in this area, because it is very much about paying pharmaceutical companies in advance of the authorisation of a vaccine, to scale up and start production. So it contributes to a significant increase in production capacity and thus our own security, but also the world's security in this area. So Norway has played a strong role internationally in most areas related to vaccines, both through the establishment of the CEPI and by being a driver for the solidarity of vaccines related to countries that cannot obtain vaccines themselves, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1318	I thought I would read to the Health Minister a few decisions made by the Stortinge this year. Among other things, we have asked the government to ‘put in place as soon as possible a contingency model for Norwegian production of important medicinal products, including antibiotics, and come back to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis’, and we have asked the government to draw up proposals for ‘economic models for the development of new, active antibiotics’. How has the Minister of Health been working since these decisions were taken to deliver on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1323	The work was in progress before the Stortinget made the decisions, so that some of the things that came out of the work that was carried out also when the Progress Party put in government, is that a recent study on the possibility of antibiotic production in Norway, and working with the Norwegian actors, and what will be particularly interesting, are narrow-spectrum antibiotics. It is also interesting to look at cooperation with the Nordic countries – we have a very good dialogue with Denmark on this issue. It will also be interesting to see if any of the Nordic countries can share these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1328	The progress party looks forward to getting a case on this presented in Stortinget. As regards emergency production here in Norway, I believe that the Minister of Health is also concerned about the supply challenges facing Norwegian patients in recent years. My question to Bent Höie is about how he looks at the contract models for the purchase of critical medicines – whether he also sees it as reasonable to split it up and distribute the risk among several actors, so that each actor can make an extra contribution when the main supplier is facing supply challenges. This is because we in the Progress Party believe that Norwegian actors need to be given the opportunity to contract with the public in order to ensure emergency production, and also have the opportunity to build capacity and competences that can be exploited in the face of critical drug supply challenges. How does the Minister of Health feel about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1335	We are working to look at the production and, where appropriate, the pre-storage of active substances in Norway. We've already done that, with the purchase of it, and we're working with the industry about it, so it's part of this. On the procurement side, it will be possible for hospitals to choose to conclude contracts where they deem it appropriate with several pharmaceutical companies in the same field, active substance or medicinal products which may be used in combination. This could be based on both preparedness, market care or other considerations. As far as emergency stores are concerned, they are mainly built up by the wholesalers, so that we enter into agreements with wholesalers and not directly with the pharmaceutical companies. Then it is the wholesalers who are responsible for the acquisition and to ensure that they have the range of different types of medicinal products they are asked to have pre-stored in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1342	I have a question that concerns emergency packs of medicinal products and medical devices in our hospitals, because it was found in the hearing that, among other things. the pharmaceutical industry was concerned that the new hospitals were being built without land to such warehouses. There's a debate about the fact that very many of our new hospitals are too small when they're finished, and I'm going to assume that the model that Sick people and health care professionals use has not seen the area for emergency storage. Is this a problem that the Minister of Health is concerned about, and is there a real issue? Will the Council of State provide a guarantee that new hospital buildings built in Norway will have the space to establish emergency storage facilities for both medicinal products and equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1348	Each hospital shall, of course, have emergency storage facilities for equipment and medicinal products in line with the usual needs. It's a responsibility that they've had all the way, so it's nothing new, and of course they have to have areas for that. Once we have built up e.g. a national preparedness warehouse for both hospitals and municipalities with a significantly higher consumption than normal consumption for a year, it is not appropriate that it be only decentralised, so that leases for large storage capacity are concluded. What's going to be the permanent model when it's about stock of that size is one of the things we're now working on. Then it is not certain that it is most sensible to have such a national emergency room decentralised in each hospital. It may also be that it should be assembled in one or fewer places.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1353	The government says they want to use Norwegian companies. But what has happened? Curida in Norway, which has employees who are main shareholders, does not have contracts with public institutions. They're exporting everything. Should the government use the power, as SV suggests in the case, to buy more Norwegian medicines from Norwegian pharmaceutical companies in Norway, or is it just empty words from the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1358	No, it's not empty words, and the SV's proposal would really be a threat to Curida, because then they had got a state competitor who had a lot of state capital in back, so it wouldn't have been necessary for Curida and the other Norwegian producers if one had followed SV's policy. No, the government's solution is just to build on the Norwegian companies that exist, and look at what opportunities they have. That is why I am now working with them in screening studies and looking at the possibilities they have to produce medicines that we actually need in Norway. That's what's got to control this. What we need to control this is what we need. And then I'm very happy that we also have a pharmaceutical company in Norway that can produce something that the world needs, so it's not negative that they export many of their products. That's really nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1363	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1370	In the change of lines, the Health Minister had difficulty believing me in my history. That is why I would quote from the big debate we had on 7 June 2019, when Sveinung Stensland said: ‘Well, in 2014, I had an interpellation about the lack of medicine where I pointed to much of what is still the problem’ – and he boasted of having five years longer history than I signed – on this with a lack of medicine. So it's a situation that the government parties have been aware of for a long time, and where it's been late action, but I think it's positive times now when the government budget takes this seriously with emergency storage. And so, when Höie is critical of the cessation of vaccine production in Norway: the Labour Party recently promoted a proposal around vaccine clusters and its establishment in Norway, without getting any cheer from the government parties. It might have been natural that you had then taken a more positive view of it. So to the proposals we are considering today. There are some important differences between the proposal Workers' Party and the proposal that SV has made regarding SV's thoughts about StatMed, because just working with the private industry in Norway also in the health sector we believe is the best prerequisite for making it possible to do a little more at home in order to succeed. Creating new jobs is something else. Here we can both create new jobs and help ensure the health of people who are totally dependent on critical drugs. Just to take some of the back carpet: DSB came up with a report in 2019, that is, before the Corona, where they made a risk matrix, and where they said that only pandemic scored higher on the combination of probability and consequences. Acute shortages of insulin and antibiotics have been reported to cause about 2,500 deaths in Norway. It's a situation we have to address, and take it seriously. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health is now, among other things, Consider what is going on in narrow-spectrum antibiotic production, and do an active job in that area. I may have forgotten last to mention the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of. I'll do that now. I would also like to briefly explain why we are not involved in the proposal to divide the tenders into two, but have made a separate proposal there, which is the same as we promoted in spring 2019. We would like to see the bids split into two groups, and we would like to see Norwegian operators join in and win those tenders, but we know that it is only for a limited part of the tenders we want a Norwegian operator that can compete in real terms, and we also know that we want to be able to compete on the free market in the EU in other contexts. Then there is also a question of what legal limitations will be in the leadership of the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party in their proposals. However, improved security of supply on the medicinal product side is crucial for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1383	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1388	I'd like to praise the Workers' Party. Without the idea of building up Statoil and acting power to implement it, Norway would be much poorer today. We did not know about climate change then, and now we have to stop destroying the climate, but building Statoil was an important and good measure. But now I'm a little surprised. SV's proposal on StatMed is an extension of the Workers' Party's wise proposal on Statoil. The Labour Party, when they were a party for those who worked, would of course vote in favour of StatMed, but they have said that they will vote against it. Gerhardsen will turn to the grave if the Workers' Party agrees to build up important Norwegian state industry. I cannot take a line against the Workers' Party in this matter. But I'm spending my time asking them why they're opposed to state industry that will help many sick people who need drugs. Why, Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1395	I'm not going to answer for the Workers' Party, but I understand why they're voting against, and the story. It's very strange about the storyteller front. But what's clear – I think it's interesting when you move out vaccines and vaccine clusters – is the fact that SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party have discontinued the vaccine production we had in Norway. The progress party, at Harald Nesvik and signed, tried to turn it around in 2013–2014, but it was impossible, it had come too far. The government of Stoltenberg had discontinued the vaccine production that we had here in Oslo. I thought that was sad. So to historiography: on April 24, 2014, six and a half years ago, I had an interpellation. After that, there was an interesting debate, where we also received several reports from the Health Directorate. It's said here that nothing has been done. Several reports were made from the Health Directorate, and a job was started, so it's done a lot. But I agree with the representative of Mørland: Of course the Minister of Health should listen to me more. It doesn't just apply here, it applies in many cases. That's why debate is so important, because then we get different views, but eventually someone has to decide and take responsibility for the whole. I think the Minister of Health has done that in an excellent way. But in this particular field, I mean what I said in the debate, that Norway has had too little stock of some medicines. We're too dependent on imports. But it actually applies to all countries in Europe. I have also said that emergency storage is unsolvable. If all countries now build up stocks of critical drugs, there will be even greater shortages, and those who lose are the ones with the least resources. It is a global perspective in that too. I would also like to say that we are forgetting an important preparedness officer here. It's the hospital pharmacists who have saved us more than once. We actually have capacity in the hospital laboratories to make some simple drugs. We must not forget that, and we must continue to take care of that. We need a good hospital pharmacy that can handle both small and large situations. That's what history has shown us. Wilkinson talks a lot about Statoil. There's a pretty big difference between Statoil, which is just using oil – now it's called Equinor, to get a little more clean in the name. But there is now a difference between extracting oil, which is complicated enough, and producing medicines. I could imagine that SV replied: Which of the 2,500 medicines Norway has, is it StatMed is going to make at any time? How should a drive planning be carried out? How many lines does one have to have? How many different processes should one have in StatMed? No, that's not the way to go. No country has succeeded. What we succeed in is an international pharmaceutical industry that produces for us, and Norway is one of the largest owners. We actually make more money in the international pharmaceutical industry through the oil fund than we spend on medicines every year. Think about it, Wilkinson!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1412	There was once a party leader in the SV who had taken a little bit of tear. This may indicate that Wilkinson has taken the whole bottle of the Tran, perhaps as a result of having been inspired by the fact that there are now 70,000 who are going to make an effort to see if tran can help towards covid. Unfortunately, I don't think it helps turn Gerhardsen in time and out in the grave. I think it was a comparison that was probably not good. I also think it's a little special to define it as when the Workers' Party was for the workers. If we look at the hearing opinions, which Wilkinson may have read, in this case, most of the hearing opinions are very clear that there are some good intentions in the proposal for SV, but in practice it is not wise to implement it as SV has thought. It may well be said that no, the pharmaceutical industry will not be heard if they have any objections to how it is actually implemented. But even – and now I hope I remember correctly, for this time I did not find the quote on the go – Norsk Nursing Association has warned that this can be very expensive. And it's also my concern, that this proposal from SV gets expensive and bad, but we hit the plank much better if we use the public, state muscles on a good cooperation with the private business we have on the health front, to actually rig a health industry in Norway that can stand steady and staggered without throwing away millions and billions, maybe, to rock some state pills that we currently don't know what to contain, except maybe something tran, which Wilkinson is happy about. I think, in fact, a slightly pragmatic solution to that, which the Labour Party and the Central Party agree on in the proposal we have promoted, is a much better way to the goal. So there are very many of the same good intentions in the proposal we're behind, as the SV has promoted. But I'm very uncertain whether the state is going to start shaking thousands of medicines, drugs that are not currently in the public domain alone. It may be that there are some medicines that we need to look at more responsibility from the state. We have already discussed insulin and antibiotics as major challenges. But I think we have to focus here on giving relief to the industry we have in Norway. It can also be a win-win for Norwegian jobs and Norwegian workers, as I see it. Then I think that Stensland has a point when he talks about emergency storage in times of crisis, because it is clear that those who can pay the most, also get the most quickly. It's a lesson for the next time: in good times we have to judge ourselves for the bad times, so that it's not just those with the most muscles and the most money that manages to take care of their inhabitants in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1423	Now the president doesn't think talking about the use of tran by co-representatives can be inappropriate or insulting, but will perhaps remind us that we should stick strictly to the matter under debate. But there is in between fun with temperature in debates too!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1428	I will try not to contribute temperature to the debate, at least not more than necessary. And if we have a fever, we're going to stay at home. It is particularly important to point it out in these days. I don't really have much more to add to the debate, but it's clear that Einar Gerhardsen is getting the blood pump to speed up a little bit with us Workers Party people. Now he had experience from this room with the SV, at the time the SF, tightening legs for good solutions for the workers. So it is not certain that the parallel is completely irrelevant, but you should get better on the matter. What the Labour Party is concerned about is that we are able to address the challenges of drug shortages. We do not believe that yesterday's solutions will help. A nostalgic name for a state-owned company will not be the proper recipe. But that we need more business cooperation and closer interaction with industry, we are absolutely convinced of that. The parallel to Statoil is also not relevant in this way, unless you look at something basic. When Statoil was established, we had the resource here in Norway. But we lacked competence, and we lacked capital. So the forward-looking politicians did that at the time, they said, "Come here, build the skills, but the value creation is to be left here." Some of the same possibilities exist for pharmaceutical production. Through our common healthcare and good access to health data, we should work well and effectively with international industry to solve some of the challenges. The majority of the shortcomings are in the form of used, well-developed medicinal products that are shelf products, but on which an international industry has also pushed the cost side, so that production is far away from us and with vulnerable supply lines. I think this has been a good debate, but it is still such that we need to think more comprehensively to ensure a national supply. My concern is that very many countries will think just like us now, so that there can be less room for cooperation. There's an important task for the government, because I think that only through greater volume, purchasing cooperation and a common understanding in our part of the world can you secure those supply lines that have proven to be too vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1440	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1445	A little story. Stensland and Höie are talking about that we had the production of vaccines. That's true, but it was readiness production. It's very different than having StatMed. It's so expensive just to have buildings waiting to produce when we need it. StatMed is a new company to produce and sell these medicines, using it all the time — not emergency buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1450	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1455	Had Liv Signe Navarse been here now, I think she had said, "You have no idea what you're talking about." It's very strange that comes from the Socialist Left Party today. Emergency production must be better than no production. The vaccine production we had was put down with SV in government. SV didn't even care about taking the word the first time we had this debate, six and a half years ago, now the tall and dark ones are coming and are going to save the world with a proposal that a total collapse is now shooting down. And that's good. With regard to the deficiency situation, I just want to get one point out. Reported deficiencies do not mean that it will be empty. That doesn't mean you don't get the product out. There are a few percent of these defects that make the customer unable to get the goods. We have a great work on the Manglmenteret. The Medical Products Agency will find alternatives. In the pharmacies, work is done and alternatives are found by doctors. So it's not like there's 1,500 situations where we're completely empty. But it's fragile and it's unstable. I hope this debate gives the Minister of Health new energy to continue working on this field. I'm sure he's noticed that he's occupying the Health Committee more than anything else. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1481	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1488	SV has submitted several proposals to limit the powers of the government of the infectious diseases law. A single committee points to the importance of an infectious disease law which allows rapid action to be taken to limit infection. The Code on Infectious Diseases is an Act on Powers and Responsibilities. The law empowers local and central authorities to implement the necessary infectious control measures so that health authorities can manage outbreak situations locally and centrally. The law is also a law on legal security, with regard to the interests of society being weighed against the personal integrity and legal protection of individuals. The proposers wish to amend the laws to allow for parliamentary testing of intervention and other changes ensuring more democratic control. The proposers indicate that today's powers under the IPD are not adapted to a long-term crisis. They refer to the experience of Koronalova and the practices of our neighbouring countries and believe that it is possible to combine government powers for circumvention with broader democratic anchoring. A large majority in the Committee are in favour of commenting that a national emergency legislation should be amended to the minimum possible in the middle of a national crisis situation. Nevertheless, a plurality, consisting of the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, believes that smaller adjustments that can be implemented without amending the law, should in practice be able to be continuously evaluated in order to strengthen the legitimacy of today's legislation and of the authorities. A minority, consisting of the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the SV, propose to ask the government to take care of a practice in which decisions on specific interventional national measures with major societal implications, introduced by law, are presented as a matter of urgency and for debate in the United Kingdom. A plural number, consisting of the Centre Party, the Working Party and the Progress Party, indicates that a Commission has been set up to map all sides of the authorities' management of the pandemic. This plurality is clear that there is a need for a holistic revision of infectious diseases laws in the light of the experience gained during the covid-19 pandemic after the CORONA Commission has delivered its report. So we are making a proposal on this. The centre party has been concerned that we must also look at the democratic control that is taking place in the municipalities under the pandemic. It is the local government that is responsible for the infectious diseases legislation, but it has often been delegated to the municipal, municipal or urban authorities. We, together with the Progress Party and SV, propose to look at the guidelines to ensure a practice in which the local government is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1501	The Covid-19 pandemic has led to the most interventional measures in Norway in peacetime. It is important that an infectious disease law allows rapid action to be taken to reduce infection, and that is what we have seen in 2020. It's a law of authority and preparedness. It empowers local and central authorities to implement the necessary measures to prevent infection and to provide a basis for both local and central health authorities to deal with outbreaks as we now have and as we see changing from week to week. The law was last revised in 2019, including: a number of proportionality criteria were included. The Labour Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, then pointed to weaknesses in Norwegian infectious diseases protection that were not investigated, in particular the lack of accountability between the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Health, and that no national action plan for the protection of infectious diseases outside the health institutions has been established, as requested by its infectious agents. This was clearly dismissed by the government and by the Progress Party, which was then put with the responsible State Council. A thorough evaluation and amendment of the IPD will be essential in the light of the experience we are now doing with the coronary apathy, when the pandemic is over or a vaccine is in place and widely available. It will also be natural to see a comprehensive revision of the IPD in the light of the work of the Corona Commission, when they have delivered a report that we expect to have some clear recommendations. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the coronary apathy is in no way over. It is difficult to predict how the situation will develop and what future measures for the protection of human health will have to be taken. We therefore believe that emergency legislation should be amended as far as possible now that we are still in the middle of the pandemic, and that is why we do not support the proposals either. On the other hand, the Labour Party believes that transparency about professional advice is important before intervention is introduced by the government. Like the rapporteur, I would like to refer to Decision 24, which was taken during the debate on the throne, where it says: ‘The government is asking the government to make publicly available the professional basis for new infection protection measures before being advertised.’ It is important for the government to change its practice in line with that decision, so that the public sees where trades end and policy begins. The Labour Party is behind the recommendation in the case, which has been submitted by the case rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1517	I would like to stress that we are still in the middle of a pandemic, a pandemic where we now have increasing infection rates, not only in the Oslo region and the mountainous region, but in large parts of the country. Both the government and local authorities have now introduced new and more stringent measures for the protection of infection, and hopefully we will see lower rates of infection in the weeks ahead. But this is not certain. The situation is still very serious, undecided and uncertain. We have to expect to live in a pandemic situation until we have an effective vaccine ready that is widely available. This in itself suggests that the emergency legislation, including the infectious disease law that we are discussing today, should be amended as much as possible now. In the worst case, it can affect our ability to handle the pandemic. On 24 April, the government set up an independent Commission for a thorough and comprehensive review and evaluation of the management of the covid-19 pandemic by the authorities. The composition and mandate of the Korona Commission were established in close dialogue with the parties here at Stortinget. The Commission shall identify all relevant aspects of the management of the coronary apathy, including: how key social functions, including those of democracy, managed and managed to maintain their function, and whether the proper functions were identified and maintained. The representatives of the SV point to several relevant issues of the IPD, including: the granting of minority rights, the consultation institute, etc. The infectious disease law was revised in 2019, as it was just referred to from the pulpit, but since then it has had a long-term pandemic, which we are now in. The need to revise the IPD and to evaluate the management of the pandemic by the authorities is obvious to me and to the Right. The key issue we are discussing today is whether the Stortinget should revise emergency legislation, including the legislation on infectious diseases, in the middle of an ongoing pandemic in which wave number two is currently in place in Europe and Norway. The right does not reject the SV’s proposal for changes to the IPD, but does not believe this is the right time. It is therefore appropriate to consider the Infectious Disease Protection Act and any other related issues and issues relating to the management of the coronary apathy by the authorities following the conclusions of the Corona Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1528	There is no doubt that the corona pandemic has had an impact on society and people most, and we are now inside the second wave where the infection increases. In March this year, the most interventional measures in Norway were introduced in peacetime, and the government was, of course, also given a number of powers to deal with the pandemic and spread of infection in the country. The measures went a long way in restricting the freedom of citizens, such as: bans and stoppages in hospitals, schools and kindergartens were closed, cultural and business life was severely affected by the measures, and many vulnerable groups were also injured. The IPD allows for many of the measures taken to combat the outbreak of the virus. This Act is a law on powers and preparedness that empowers local and central authorities to implement the necessary measures on the protection of infection. The Progress Party believes it is important to provide for a practice in which decisions on highly invasive national measures with major societal implications, introduced under the IPD, are brought forward as a matter of urgency and debated in the Stortinget. We simply don't understand why the Workers' Party and the government are opponents of it. There is no doubt that the coronary apathy has tested the IPD. Nevertheless, legislation has worked well in many ways, ensuring that authorities, both nationally and locally, have been able to take the necessary measures quickly to combat a national infection situation. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is also clear that today’s legislation is not adapted to a situation of long-term crisis, and therefore powers should be limited in order to ensure majority support for decisions, and more control, transparency and debate. The Corona Commission shall thoroughly and comprehensively review and evaluate the management of the pandemic by the authorities. Once the report of the Commission has been delivered, it is important that the government promptly promote a comprehensive revision of the infectious diseases law for treatment in Stortinget. We also underline the need to assess guidelines that ensure a practice in which each local government is involved and responsible for municipal decisions introduced under the IPR – this in order to ensure a broad democratic anchoring and awareness-raising of the local government. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Progress Party believes that it must be consulted when using the law on powers, as far as possible, and that it is possible to maintain the consultative institute even in times of crisis, while taking into account the need for effective procedure. This shall also apply to national decisions or regulations based on the law on the protection of infectious diseases, if it is timely. That is why we are promoting proposals on this, and I would like to take up the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1543	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1548	The country's main defence capability is that the population sees that society has important qualities to defend. Democracy and openness are, and should be, our values. Today we shall vote in favour of this. SV proposes open political processes, where the facts are known, and where it is the top elected institutions that take the key decisions. The SV proposal would give the government exactly the same action against the infection as it has today, but provided a democratic safety valve as well. An example of this is proposal No. 7, that the government must publish the technical basis for major intervention, or proposal No. 5, which says that major interference in our lives can be done, but also has to be sent to the Stortinge to gain democratic control. The government parties only have 33.6 pst. by the people in their backs. Two out of three elected representatives of the people do not have the opportunity to have democratic control over all the great measures that affect people. I am particularly surprised at the Workers' Party. Gahr Støre said clearly in the debate that interventional national measures should be sent to the Stortinget. Proposal No. 2 large national measures will be sent to the Stortinget. The Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV promote this proposal. I am pleased that SV gets a majority for a comprehensive revision of the IPD Act. This suggests that the government's monopoly of power on infectious diseases will disappear in the future. SV would like more democracy and transparency now, supported by several experts. The pandemic will last, and we must not forget democracy and openness in times of crisis. I am promoting all the SV's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1563	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1568	It is with a certain discomfort that I take the floor in this matter, for in a mild way, the decision we are making here today has its starting point on a rather pointless task of stifling the Storting with right now. I emphasize «accurately now». That's why I have to be short. The government has set up a Corona Commission. It will deliver a report during the spring. This report concerns, as far as we are aware, inter alia: Some of the problematic aspects of the infectious diseases law — including some of the constitutional aspects that it appears necessary to take a decision — and which should be commended to Professor Holmøyvik for having been affected. I can't imagine a situation where it's more necessary to show self-critical insight than the one we've been through in the last year. That's why a good and thoughtful process has been set up, of which the government has all the honor. That process is what SV with its proposal now wants to deal with. Of course, the party doesn't get a total mass on it. It has ended in a decision that bears the mark of a morsel of skin that began its life as a lion — at least in the eyes of the proposers. It's like: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a comprehensive revision of the Code after the Corona Commission has delivered its report.’ Of course, I don't have a problem with this getting a majority. It will get majority with or without the help of SV. But I want to say that the day a party forces me, as it is called in a media lookup in a present broadcasting station, to make a decision that the earth is round, I'm going to vote no – not because I want to reverse Pythagorean or Copernicus, but simply because the Storting has more sensible things to spend time on, especially in these days. Because this is serious. 110 patients are now in hospitals in Norway, we are notified as we debate this matter. If you want to change the game rules in the middle of the game, you better go to the United States. There I think maybe you would even get a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1586	The background to this SV proposal for a representative, on restrictions on government powers in the law on infectious diseases, is probably a desire for the Stortinget to be more closely involved in decisions on measures taken by the government. In that I also feel that there is a criticism that the Stortinget is not sufficiently involved, and therefore there is a proposal to amend the infectious diseases law. I disagree that we should change emergency legislation while we are in the midst of a crisis. The crisis is not over. Therefore, it is important that all crisis management takes place within the legislation we have, within the established plans we have, and within the emergency systems we have. Therefore, I think it is unwise to change the framework conditions now, while we are in the midst of a crisis. We know that time is an important factor in reducing the spread of infection. Therefore, major decisions and small decisions, decisions that – yes – will affect your and my life, often have to be taken quickly. The questions raised in this proposal for a representative are important for discussion. And we're going to have ample opportunity to do that when the Corona Commission, or the Women's Country Committee, is done with its evaluation of the authorities' management of the coronary crisis. And when we get that discussion on the table, we may all agree with SV – or possibly others – that we may need to consider changes in the infectious diseases law as well. But I just want to stress that in the midst of a crisis, in my view, it is unwise to change the framework conditions. It can create uncertainty, and in the worst case, it can lead to that we're not able to handle the pandemic in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1596	The cancellation then takes a break in the handling of case No. 6 and it's ringing for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1608	Then we're ready to vote. The Storting will only vote for the remaining cases from Tuesday 10 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1628	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in its review of the railway organisation, to consider facilitating the budgeting and organisation of railway development in Norway so that Bane NOR has portfolio management over the whole or part of the annual allocation, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1657	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the responsibilities of the actors in the railway sector and the specific relationship between the Directorate-General for Railways, Bane NOR and the Ministry of Transport’. The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1681	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to entrust New Veier AS with the task of building railway projects in the same way as on the road side.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1709	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ingarill Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the necessary transport of passengers and goods in North Norway is ensured.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1735	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the coast route is maintained with six ships and calls at all ports between Bergen and Kirkenes.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1752	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to allocate funds to the coastal route as measures for the covid-19 outbreak. Up to 3 additional ships are inserted between Trondheim and Kirkenes, to ensure the arrival every two days.» The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1761	Mr Sverre Myrli has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1766	The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV had proposed that the coastal route be operated on six ships on the Bergen–Kirkenes route, i.e. every two days on the whole route. That was proposal No. 2 in the setting, which was just downgraded. The Progress Party could have secured a majority in favour of that proposal, which they did not do now. It was downhearted. Then we have come to the situation that today there could not be a majority for any of the proposals on the coast route – in fact no proposal at all, because the Progress Party is no longer behind the vote. During the debate on Tuesday, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities presented a loose proposal, proposal No. 3, which opens up three extra ships between Trondheim and Kirkenes. It is a worse proposal than our proposal, but a worse proposal is better than no one, so I would recommend to the Labour Party that we now vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1775	The Workers' Party then announced subsidiary support for the proposal. Is there any reason to believe that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party also announce support for the proposal? – It looks like this. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1799	The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1824	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Kjell-Børge Freiberg on behalf of the Party for Progress There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start work on the opening of temporary lease-out of aquaculture permits for self-production in the fishing industry and to promote an appropriate case for the Storting.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain how the implementation of a rental scheme could affect the income of municipalities from the Maritime Fund and to ensure that these revenues are not adversely affected.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1855	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a scheme for the rental of time-limited aquaculture permits contributes to increased value creation in the fishing industry and does not allow for the placing on the market or the granting of permits.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1879	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1906	During the debate Kjell-Børge Freiberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the introduction of a system of MTB rolling in the breeding industry as soon as possible, in the light of experience gained from the variable MTB test scheme. The scheme shall be evaluated after five years.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1928	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1944	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1962	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, by Willfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors’ salaries, senior management’s salaries in state-owned companies and companies in which the government is a majority shareholder, as well as the salaries of politicians at national and local level. The Commission shall look at the government directors’ salaries, bonus schemes and remuneration in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have been made subject to a foothold, despite, inter alia, previously adopted guidelines. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties. The remuneration of political and administrative heads of the State with a salary of 9,8 G or more shall be nominated in the light of the conclusions of the Executive Commission.’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e1988	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a practice whereby, as a general rule, managers of the State and of entire state companies who resign from their positions, whether voluntary or involuntary, do not retain their senior salary if they are relocated to lower positions.’ The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2005	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to set up a management wage commission for government directors’ salaries, senior management’s salaries in state-owned companies and companies in which the government is a majority shareholder, as well as the salaries of politicians at national and local level and after-paid schemes. The Commission shall look at the government directors’ salaries, bonus schemes and remunerations in the context and analyse why wage developments at the top level have continued, despite, inter alia, previously adopted guidelines. Furthermore, the Commission shall make a thorough assessment of the real social considerations in the determination of wages and salaries and what cannot be justified by this. The Commission shall have strong representation from the parties. The remuneration of Prime Minister, Government Councils and Depositary Representatives shall be suspended on a nominal basis until the conclusions of the Executive Commission have been presented.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2022	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote its own case for the Storting on new guidelines for directors’ salaries and other types of remuneration for managers in the State, which contribute to reduced pay differentials.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the responsible State Council reports annually to the Storting on the development of wage management within its area of responsibility.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2151	It's going to go over VII first. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2165	It is voted over I-VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2220	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 6-8, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 12–16, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from Red. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive Children’s Court Act to come back to Stortinget by the end of 2020, which follows the previous decision of the Stortinget and ensures that all state aid and parental payments to kindergarten benefit the children.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify how the municipalities in the district area of the municipality plan can regulate the operation of kindergartens for public purposes, in order to prevent property speculation.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2264	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–16, from Red. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose legislative changes to ensure that kindergarten property built on cheap or free municipal plots or with public capital grants is not sold out with profits to commercial operators.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the expenditure of commercial kindergartens on rents and profits of commercial companies on publicly funded kindergartens through the purchase and sale of property, and is proposing amendments to the laws clarifying the limits on rents for publicly funded kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the law so that rental contracts for kindergartens must be approved by the municipality in order to be valid.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2293	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for stepping up public and non-profit ownership and the operation of kindergartens to ensure that kindergartens are operated by public or non-profit actors.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for changes to the law that ensure the municipality has the right to distribute the number of seats between private and municipal kindergartens if the municipality experiences a reduction in child numbers.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2317	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to come back with proposals to amend the first paragraph of Section 53 of the Kinderhagen Act, so that the municipality will continue to exercise financial control over the private kindergartens in its own municipality.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to ensure adequate supervision of an increasingly commercial nursery sector.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals for amendments to the law that ensure public transparency in the accounts of establishments receiving public transfers to kindergarten.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to introduce, or to make the necessary proposals to introduce, a requirement that, when a nursery is sold, a new owner must apply for a new grant.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2364	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to enable the municipality to make a balanced allocation of places between municipal and private kindergartens, in order to ensure the predictability and operational basis of both municipal and private kindergartens in the municipality in line with the wishes of the parents and the consideration of a decentralised nursery structure.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2383	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the Children’s Homes Act so that government grants benefit only the children and that this money cannot be taken out in the form of dividends for private children’s owners.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to submit necessary legislative proposals which, irrespective of the operation of public tasks by the municipality or non-municipality, ensure the transparency and transparency of accounts, quality indicators, manning situation and financial flows, as well as the changes to the central parts of the law necessary for the effective transparency of public services, are also applicable to private suppliers with whom the municipality has contracted, so that the local government sector can effectively control any abuse of government grants.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce the notification obligation and pre-emption right for the municipality in the event of the sale of kindergartens and to submit any proposals for amendments to the laws necessary to introduce such rights and obligations.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit legislative proposals similar to those laid down in the Law on Secondary Education, which ensure that employees in private kindergartens have pay and working conditions at least equivalent to municipal kindergartens.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2432	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2457	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-8, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the whole population of the country to access high-speed broadband by increasing the country’s access to broadband development and introducing public universal service obligations in areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion.’ [[minimum 100 Mbit/s]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to continue the National Welfare Technology Programme with the aim of making welfare technology an integral part of health and care services by 2025, and to submit such a plan to the Stortinget. The programme must include incentive schemes and measures to roll out welfare technologies in all municipalities, increase digital communication between patients and healthcare services, involve volunteering and non-profit organisations and measures to strengthen digital competence in the population and prevent digital class separation.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2493	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure access to training and appropriate training during the period of leave for posted workers with low digital competence’.» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2510	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 8 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to roll out digital communication between patients and healthcare and to provide the necessary user competence.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a grant scheme to ensure the digital transformation of health freedom, so that digital tools are put in place to facilitate the planning and implementation of activities and social networks that provide quality of life and mastery.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2536	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 5 and 7 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set the target for all the country’s households and businesses to have satisfactory broadband capacity. The Government is asked to draw up a development plan and to propose to increase the country’s allocation to broadband development in order to achieve this objective. ‘... Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for steps to be taken to roll out welfare technology in municipalities, including the purchase of tablet boards or other solutions for non-governmental organisations that have visiting friend schemes.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further roll-out and strengthening training programmes for digital competences for the elderly and others who need it, for example in cooperation with the Pensioners’ Association, Senior Networks and local volunteer centres.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2575	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2605	The President proposes that the draft representative be sent to the Labour and Social Committee, except for proposals 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9, which are proposed to be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, to be rejected. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2612	Our proposal targets people who are now losing their arrangements in the coming months. In our view, a new treatment of emergency measures is urgently needed to take those affected. Therefore, points 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9 should, in our view, be included in the discussion in Stortinget, according to Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure, on the comitology of proposals if necessary, or if the government promotes a proposition within the same field of action of the Stortinget. Action is urgent. I'm glad you're on committee. I would ask the presidency to take a look at which committee is most suitable in retrospect, but we should also include items 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9 in the handling of the crisis measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2619	Then there are two proposals now. One is that these proposals are rejected, as the President proposes. The representative Eigil Knutsen has asked for the floor for explanations of vote – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2626	The Labour Party has today presented our alternative budget, which proposes a number of measures to ensure that those who lose their daily allowances do not do so, that the low-paid do not stand on the ground, and that self-employed workers, freelancers, apprentices and recipients of redundancy pay continue to have an additional safety net for as long as the pandemic lasts, and not least to ensure that the unemployed receive holiday pay. The Workers' Party therefore supports the consideration of these proposals in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2631	This has been proposed to the Labour and Social Committee, and the representative Björn Moxnes said in his statement that if the Presidency finds that the Financial Committee should deal with it, the Presidency will take that decision. What we are now going to vote on is whether the proposals are No. 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9, which have been proposed rejected, should be addressed. Does the representative of the Workers' Party support the consideration of the proposals proposed by the Presidency?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2638	Yes, the Labour Party does not wish to reject those proposals at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2643	Thank you. That's it. Karin Andersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2650	The same thing applies to SV. We do not want to reject them either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2655	The representative, Mr Arnstad, has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2661	We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are open to all proposals and should be dealt with in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2666	Several have not asked for the word for explanation of vote, and there is a vote over the procedure. Alternatively, the proposal from the President that the proposal be sent to the Labour and Social Committee, with the exception of proposals Nos. 3, 6, 7, 8, and 9, which is proposed to be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, that it be rejected and the proposal by the Red on the procedure under Rule 38 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2680	Further references were made: 3rd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Siv Jensen, Audun Lysbakken, Erlend Wiborg and Solfrid Lerbreck on a propensity pledge for pensioners (Document 8:53 S [[115]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : To be sent to the Labour and Social Committee. 4th@item: inlistbox Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community (Doc. [[116]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : To be sent to the Family and Culture Committee. 5th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Ingvild Kjerkol, Tuva Moflag, Tore Hagebakken, Hege Haukeland Liadal and Tellef Inge Mørland for better treatment for addicts (Document 8:49 S [[117]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : To be sent to the Health and Care Committee. 6th@item: inlistbox State Council Protocols for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2020 [[118]] Onest. : To be sent to the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2719	The Act on the Protection of Infectious Diseases is an Act on Powers and Responsibilities. The law empowers local and central authorities to implement the necessary measures to prevent infection. The Infectious Disease Protection Act has a new provision in Section 1-5, which was incorporated in the context of a revision of the Act in 2019 and which limits the powers of the Act. This provision provides, inter alia, for: requirements for assessing the necessity and proportionality of the measures. The requirements of the law shall include, inter alia: ensure that the interests of society must be weighed against the personal integrity and legal protection of individuals. The disease situation is assessed on an ongoing basis, and where there is a need to adjust the measures, there is no time for public consultation within a period of experience. The Government has sought public consultation on proposals for regulatory and regulatory changes in relation to the management of the pandemic. The Code is a step model whereby, firstly, the law regulates responsibilities and tasks in a normal situation, secondly regulates the specific powers of diseases defined as a general dangerous infectious disease and, thirdly, additional powers are activated if the situation is defined as a serious outbreak of a general dangerous infectious disease. All the powers of the IPD were triggered by the definition of covid-19 as a general dangerous disease on 31 January and the outbreak has been declared a serious outbreak. The assessments of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate are published in line with the Public Health Act. The assessment on the basis of which the measures were taken shall be published before they become public, as the Stortinget has also adopted. After the pandemic came to the country in February, we have gained experience with both the virus and various infectious diseases. Nevertheless, we do not know much about how the situation will develop, and what measures we need to take for the future. I don't think the IPD should be changed while we're still in the middle of the pandemic. The established plans and emergency systems we have are based on today's law. It is unwise to change the framework conditions while we are in a crisis. Changes could create uncertainty and, in the worst case, could affect our ability to handle the pandemic. However, it is important to discuss these issues very carefully when the pandemic is over and we have received a thorough evaluation from the Women’s Country Committee. I would also like to say that we will probably have experience from this pandemic that is useful in such an evaluation, but I would stress the importance of this law also working under completely different pandemics than the one we now have. It is therefore important that we do not just assume how this pandemic and this virus occurs, but also imagine scenarios where there are completely different pandemics and completely different viruses coming to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2739	It is easy to understand that strict hospital visiting rules are in place to protect very ill patients from covid-19 infection, to prevent the spread of infection and to avoid hospital closure. However, it is not easy to understand the strict visiting rules that individual hospitals practice against families of hospitalised patients who are at the end of their life. My question to the Minister of Health is whether he will ensure that families do not go to the media to get through their fundamental rights when Dad or Mom dies, with or without covid-19 infection in the body.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2750	It has been done through the guidelines in force in this area. There is also a clear need to engage in dialogue with the individual family and try to find solutions. That's what we want when it comes to both hospitals and municipal institutions. This is terribly difficult. Of course, it is most difficult for those in the situation. But I also have to say that it is probably difficult for those who are going to practice this – in practice – out in the hospitals and our hospitals. These are difficult balances that are to be made every day, and we have no guarantee that there are sometimes judgements that do not appear to be the best. I hope for some understanding that this is sometimes difficult. But I experience that you then try to clean this up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2757	I'd like to ask you the same question, because you've been looking at guidelines for a long time. It was also true in spring when it was announced that old people died alone at the hospital under the pandemic. Now we also see that there are totally unimaginable restrictions on deaths that occur in our hospitals and in hospitals today, where the relatives are not allowed to be present – the closest. So the answer is guidelines. But one has to assume that the guidelines that came from the directorate have not worked as we would like. My question is: do you want to refer to guidelines that don't work again? We can't defend anymore that we can't get to proper conditions around death under a pandemic, and I want to ask the Council of State what he intends to do concretely to make sure it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2764	I believe that there is no basis for saying that the guidelines do not work in general. The examples we get that some municipalities practice the guidelines more stringently than it is for, we have asked the county councillors to follow up and monitor them on an ongoing basis – so that we can assess it. So I'm going to encourage you to also think about those who make these assessments, not always in the same simple situations. There are a lot of different assessments to be made. Sometimes you do assessments that do not appear to be quite wise after that, and then I also see that a lot of people reconsider it. But using it as such a general description of the health care situation, I do not think that is the basis. Everyone is in difficult situations now. I hope that we can talk about this in a way that also makes you reflect a little bit on the fact that those who are going to take these decisions with the relatives are also in difficult balances. And my impression is that they essentially come to wise conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2769	I don't want to take this up in Storting's Question Time, but when it's the case that people have to go to the media to change things, we're also in a position of responsibility that this practically doesn't work, even though there are probably a lot of places working. But I have another question, which goes on the matter today. A proposal that is going to get more numbers is that a government asks to start a revision of the Code of Disease Protection once the Corona Commission has delivered its report – that is, not changing the laws here and now, but already now notifying us that there are so many things that we now have experience with, so we need a law revision. This I have not heard that the Council of State has joined, and the government party is also outside. Is it true that the Council of State disagrees with the fact that we need a statutory audit? Is it the case that the Council of State will wait and see to it that the Corona Commission delivers its report, and does it not think there is any concern about the law and how it works in long-term crises?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2776	On the contrary, I have said since we put down the Women's Country Committee that there is a need to evaluate everything around the handling of this, both my handling and the handling of others, and whether we have a good enough legal and emergency system. That is why the parties to the government are voting against a proposal that actually opens doors. We wouldn't have started this work if we didn't mean it. I have also said this in debates in which the representative has participated in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2781	The government has proposed and obtained a majority in order to amend the law on infectious diseases in the pandemic both through the Korona Act and through the temporary law on quarantine and isolation. The government and others say we shouldn't change the law now. But we've changed the law, together. Why is the government to change the law on quarantine and isolation, but against changes with more transparency and more democracy, which will give the same action against the infection that the government has today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2787	I do not understand that those changes concern the basic emergency management, while that is what SV's proposal has as its starting point. That means that I believe that the kind of change should be a roof when one has been evaluated this, but not just evaluated this situation. Just as when the Storting treated the law in 2019, it is based on other possible situations, and that's why I stress that when we do this job after this pandemic, we don't just have to assume that we think we're getting an equal pandemic back. We can also get a completely different pandemic. I've seen with my own eyes how a pandemic works in another society, namely in Sierra Leone in 2015, when it was a completely different virus, with completely different consequences, that affected that society. We also have to have emergency laws and a system in Norway to manage that type of virus and pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2792	The proposal will give the same action against the infection. Why has the government not taken the initiative to anchor the national strategy in the UK? It provides guidance on how the handling should be and could be anchored in the Stortinget. In addition, the strategy contains the most stringent of FHI's models. It is clearly a purely political choice, with far-reaching consequences. Why has the national strategy not gone to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2799	Because it's the government's strategy for dealing with the pandemic, and it's government's responsibility to create that kind of strategy. But everything we do is public. I believe it is wrong when the representative claims that things are happening hidden, that it is not open, and that it is not open to debate. The government’s decision-making base in these areas is public, and everyone can ask questions about it. There is also reason to reflect on – at least I would have done so if I was now a big-time representative and not a government council – the control function of the Storting. The size has an important role to play in controlling the government, and if all of the government's decisions are at the level of what this is about, for example. The government's own strategy, should have been anchored in Stortinget, Stortinget would have set aside its own control function towards the government after this. I believe that there is reason for the Storting to reflect on when a person discusses what matters are going to the Stortinget, and what matters are to be decided by the executive in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2806	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2813	There is a large number of people in the room who think it is unwise to change the framework conditions under a pandemic, but my question is why the same majority do not support the proposal to make a holistic revision of the infectious diseases law after the Corona Commission has delivered its report. That only the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre are part of that proposal, I find incomprehensible. Based on what the government party has said, I would have believed that they too could have voted in favour of that proposal. I haven't listened to the Council say there's going to be a holistic audit. He's seen down a corona commission, and then we'll see what they're coming with. This is an order I believe is very easy to complete. So to the proposal to ask the government, within today's legislation, to ensure a practice in which, as soon as possible, specific intervention with major societal implications is put before the Stortinge as a matter and for debate: I also find it incomprehensible that the Labour Party does not support this proposal. It is precisely this party leader has said in debates, that he wants to get the big things to Stortinget. There is no need to change the permissions to get it. The government can do that because it's not illegal. My point is that when we in our time did the greatest shut-down of Norway since the Second World War, without having to bring it up for debate in the Great Britain, the government should have done so. I'm not talking about the individual restrictions that come from week to week, but if there's a big fall in the country again, you should see if you can't anchor it within today's laws and the decisions that are then taken in the Storting. For proposal No 3, that the hearing should be normal, points out to the Centre that it is the law in force today under the Administrative Act § 37, and that it should also be subject to decisions under the infectious diseases law. For proposal No 7, on publicising the professional basis: the Center Party believes that there is enough to change practice. There is no need to change the law when we have achieved this in practice. Elles is interesting that Professor Eirik Holmøyvik refers to another way to change the infectious disease law, according to the model from the emergency law, and not as SV suggests, to do it according to the model from the coronalova. It is also uncertain whether SV believes that things that the local government has agreed, not just the government, are going to Stortinget. So that's a little bit of an imprecise suggestion as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2845	This is going to be quick. The Government promoted on 3 April Prop. 65 L for 2019–2020 E-Health Act. The proposal addresses measures to strengthen and facilitate digitisation in the healthcare sector with the aim of contributing to good and efficient health and care services. The majority of the Grand Duchy has publicly stated that the proposed law will not be passed. In the interests of the operators proposed and other interested parties, the Government notifies that, following an overall assessment of the situation, they see that the best solution is to Prop. 65 L for 2019-2020 The eHealth Act is withdrawn. The Committee therefore refers to the notification and notes that the government has chosen to withdraw this bill. Thus, Stortinget has no proposition on new e-health laws for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2854	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-12.ana.ud571e2860	So today's map is ready to debate. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
