ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e184	The representatives Martin Kolberg, Marianne Haukland and Une Bastholm, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e204	Case No. 1 up to and including Nos. 26 will be treated as a whole. The cases relate to legislative note 1 and to legislative decisions 107 up to and including 131.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e501	Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e506	I take the floor on case No. 15th I take up the proposal for a bill, which is distributed in the hall. By an incursion, VII had fallen out when the Storting treated Inner. 322 L last week. We are therefore asking for this legislative note to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e511	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1–26.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e529	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e536	This call for proposals provides a situation report for the railway sector, paying particular attention to the implementation of three major investment projects. Two of these have unfortunately significant cost increases, which have an impact on the whole sector. Over the period 2006-2020, appropriations for the rail sector have more than tripled, while there has been a significant increase in train and take-offs. There has been an important and correct effort to get more people to choose the train. In addition, we have introduced tendering procedures in the passenger train transport sector, which includes: sees the effect of today, when SJ starts operating the Dovrebanen and Nordlandsbanen and the associated sections. The aim of the reform is to strengthen the competitiveness of the rail system, to put customers at the centre and to contribute to more goods. Investment projects in the railway sector are often large and complex. It sets extra-large requirements for planning, risk clearance and project management. It is therefore important that Bane NOR has the necessary space for action to implement projects effectively. A majority, including the government parties, is behind a proposal for a review of the governance structure between the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Railways and the Bane NOR. This is, in my opinion, a natural follow-up and continuation of the railway reform, which has now worked in approx. three years. The aim must be to ensure sufficient space for action for the Bane NOR during the planning and implementation phase, so that there are no formal or practical obstacles to the effective implementation of investments, operations and maintenance. At the same time, we see that the New Veger model has contributed to lower costs and more efficient implementation of projects in the road sector. Although railway projects may be somewhat more complex, there is much evidence that similar methodology and organisation can have a lot to do with the railway sector. Early involvement of contractors and greater flexibility in the implementation of projects combined with a predictable economic framework have produced positive results in the road sector, which should also be able to be transferred to the railway sector. In the proposal we therefore ask the government to investigate whether the New Veger model can also be used in railway development. It may be through adaptation of the framework conditions for Bane NOR, the establishment of a separate company or the use of New Weier AS. For the projects Follobanen and Sandbukta–Moss–Sostad, there are unfortunately significant overruns. Such exceedances of costs bind up funds and have an impact on the whole railway sector. Therefore, it is important to get more knowledge of the cause of the exceedances, and we support the government’s proposal to carry out a thorough evaluation of the Follobane project, where external resources are also used. It is important that experience from this project helps us to avoid this kind of exceedances in other railway projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e551	In these days it has been five years since the so-called railway reform was adopted by a narrow majority here in the Grand Duchy. Many of us warned against the consequences of it. I'm not going to take a rematch on this and now, a majority is a majority, but I have to say that much of what we warned against that time, unfortunately, has turned on. I think we must be able to establish that in Norway we have a rail sector where we do not have control. We have a rail sector without control, as it is now fragmented into a number of units, corporations and companies. What's bad is that we don't control the development of our railway projects. We may disagree on how the railway is to be organized, but experience from all other countries shows that what really monks if you're going to get something done with the railway is not how to organize it and draw squares and laps on the organisation map, but it's building more railways. Tracks, rails, overhead line, new double tracks – that is the solution for the railway. Intercity development, on which the Stortinget gathered, was a major step forward and a clear ambition to link cities in the East more strongly. New double-track sections for Lillehammer, Halden and Skien brought the Stortinget together – even with the aim of which year the double-tracks would be completed. Later, the Henefoss and the Ringerix Railway came along, so it's about four intercity sections. Now there is no one in the Directorate of Railways or the Ministry of Transport who can say anything about when the double track will be finished to Lillehammer, Halden, Skien or Hönefoss. Maybe there won't be double tracks there at all, as planned. Well, I guess it's just that there's really nothing to say about when the double track will be ready for Hamar or Fredrikstad once. When true is said, it's really just the double track to Tønsberg that's kind of on the road. This is simply not good enough. We can't have it like that. It is a challenge for the whole of Stortinget that we are unable to deliver on the railway development for which it has been a broad political majority. The Folloban is a very important piece of intercity development in the East. Fortunately, we now see light in the tunnel -- I think almost I can use that expression. The project is about to be completed, but the jam has been a broken project, and it has to be learned for the future. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the SV propose that a broad composite sample be set up to evaluate all aspects of the Folloban project. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to address minority proposals. 1 and 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e568	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e573	The Communication refers to projects where there is not only significant new information that emerges, but there are therefore very serious economic discrepancies compared to what has previously been notified to the Stortinget. At the same time, it is amazing enough in the setting from the government parties: ‘Rational progress in the ongoing IC projects has resulted in less funding for the programme areas including, inter alia, station actions, crossing tracks and smaller capacity-enhancing actions.’ At the same time, they are concerned about increased costs, poor decision-making bases for policy priorities, and that the commitment to the investment budget has given little opportunity to strengthen the maintenance budget. It's a strange production. I am genuinely concerned about the Norwegian railway system. The railway reform has led to unclear responsibilities, which have affected the progress of many projects. No matter how the railway sector is organised, it is important to build more railways. That must be the objective. Suspension of a number of important railway projects and large cost increases on others are very unfortunate. We must have a management that ensures that we have effective decision-making processes, control of costs, and that the projects are completed as foreseen. Both the management of Bane NOR and the employees’ organisations have publicly indicated the need for simplification in the organisation. There is a need to look at the governance structure of the sector. The Central Party notes that the Government is once again taking the opportunity to claim that the so-called railway reform has brought significant benefits and that reference is made to the competitive deployment of passenger transport, both traffic packages 1, 2 and 3. We still have the good thing to see that these statements are actually true. The total size in 2020 was over 74 billion. kr on the transport budget. Cost control and good systems are crucial to ensure that the money is used after the intention. The size is responsible to the voters and must ensure that the money is managed as best as possible by the government. It requires clear responsibilities and – I repeat – cost control, because this is what it is about. Many of the expansion projects cover several years. The majority grants money on the basis of investigations and cost analyses. Powers are given to the government of the annual government budgets so that large projects are ensured progress over several years. This is where it has now failed. When the Storting loses confidence in compliance with costs, the threshold will be higher to adopt new projects. It is a major democratic challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e591	It's probably hardly anyone now who's not very concerned about the huge overruns of several railway projects in the last few years. The announced cost excess on Folloban is in addition to the cost framework on the project that was increased by over 2 billion. kr in the State budget for 2020. All these exceedances, all the associated deferrals, including: on intercity, puts the Storting in a very difficult situation. It's not just stopping projects that are almost finished, and we can't take new grips on concepts or management or forms of contract that are chosen at a very early stage. We can't do anything about that, they're chosen. Many people now ask themselves whether much better work needs to be done before large projects are served The Stortinget and start-up appropriations are given. It is obvious that overruns of some major projects do not make money for railway projects elsewhere in the country, as the Council of State confirms well along the way, and not least confirms it in the revised national budget. The Ringerix Railway: What's the future for the Ringerix Railway? It has been suspended year after year. Then we'll see what's going on in the state budget for the fall, I'm very excited about that. Dovrebanen: We know about the route Kliverud – Sørli, which has consequences for progress on intercity to Hamar and Lillehammer. There are simply some central questions we have to ask ourselves here in the hall now. Is there something completely wrong with the way in which railway development is organised? We have to ask ourselves that question. Why is there so little cost control? Or is there something wrong with cost control? Is there anything wrong with the bidding round? Is it the concepts that are not quite well established? I'm thinking, for example. on the choice of technology, I'm thinking about how the tunnels are detonated, there's been a lot of discussion, not least in the light of whether Norwegian entrepreneurs are coming to or whether they're just foreign. These are important choices. It's in many ways the experts' choices. We don't get so easily involved in it as politicians. We have to trust the professionals. That's also a point. We have a certain distance to it, we can't go into it. I can't believe, just as the representative Myrli says, that the blue-breasted New Public Management model and all the external consultants used, all the division of state agencies that are going to buy and sell services to each other, is going to be such a mantra for this government. It's a right-wing ideology, isn't it, but is it the most suitable one? That's what we're asking ourselves. Is it the model that gives the best control that responsibility is divided and spread across countless trade unions? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e606	After three articles that have very negative resounding, I will first point to some positive issues within the railway. There have never been so many passengers on the routes we have – before covid-19, of course, but nevertheless – there has been a strong increase in the number of passengers. Railway operators have been good at adapting to the needs, and they are getting even better in the future. Today, SJ takes over Dovrebanen, Nordlandsbanen, Raumabanen and more – Trønderbanen, not least, it is important for me to mention. They have an ambition to increase the number of passengers by 40 pst. There's such numbers I like to hear from the railway side. Today, the crossing track on Ler is finished, so that freight traffic can go better between Trondheim and Oslo – a 650-metre crossing track. Already today there has been a freight train on that length and crossed there. There's going to be a completely different operation for freight traffic, and I think what was done last year with support to get out of the trailer is in a positive development. This message is not positive given that we have to move some money. Something's going well. The Vestfold track comes as planned. Then there are some money movements because you've spent some more money at an early stage and maybe spend a little less later. The fact that the Westfold track now comes with a higher frequency, that is, an even better offer to the passengers, seems to be very positive. We know that the Eastfold course has been problematic. Yeah, I'm sure there's something about the organization. It has to be reorganized. Even the director of Bane NOR is talking about starting to think again here. That's what the Left very much agrees with, and I hope it's also discussed in the boardrooms of Bane NOR. That's where the responsibility lies to organize that work. I also think there are some natural relationships that you were not aware of. The question is how detailed and thorough one should be before launching such projects. I agree that planning and adoption must be more cost-conscious, but we must not forget the joys either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e621	Swearing Myrli says that more railway must be built. He is really right about that, but I still don't think Sverre Myrli has found that there has been a triple in the railway investment with today's government. So there's been a huge investment, and it's about how much more money you're going to spend before you start to think a little critically about how public funds are managed. The Folloban, a project that the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's friends started a few years ago, would cost a few billion. It's getting closer to 40 billion. kr. One can take Østfoldbanen, one can take projects after project – there are large exceedances. The money just runs out, there's no cost control. So Sverre Myrli is wrong. He's totally wrong. It's not just about spending more money; it's about having to look at the structure, about how the railway is organized. There it is impressive to see that the representative Nävra from SV repeats it, in a slightly more discreet way than he tends to do. He asks questions about whether there is any complete error in how the railway is organised in Norway. In the past, the representative referred to the word ‘new tracks’. He did not mention that on the platform today, but there is no doubt that there is a problem with the structure of the railway in Norway today. In fact, the solution is not that difficult; we have the solution on New Roads. We've seen that there. There was overshooting on road projects after road projects. There were delays, we couldn't finance it. Then we came up with an alternative to the State Road Service. It's a state-owned company, but it's a good alternative, with a new professional environment built up from scratch. This has led us to have cost control, and that we actually build cheaper than what was originally planned. The same success can be achieved by rail. It is in the proposals of the Progress Party that we have promoted and that I feel that more and more parties on the Stortinget really agree. One must be demanding, and one must have competition between professional environments, and between two state companies, which can develop together. That'll do. So back to the intercity, because there is unfortunately Sverre Myrli quite right. It is sad, shocking and provocative to see, first of all, that there are delays and exceedances, but also that there is a project on the Dovrebahn that runs on rails – where there are no exceedances and where there is cost control – that is stopped because other projects are completely free of cost control. It's going to be completely wrong. If we go back a little bit in history, until the Workers' Party and the Center Party started to build a railway along Mjösa, the joint project many boasts: there's a railway and rust. There had not been any better with the Workers' Party, and there had not been anything better with the Centre Party or SV, for those rails were to continue standing and rusting until one is finished with the double track until Hamar. In fact, there is a great responsibility for all parties. We expect the government to clean it up. We expect one to put the project on the rails again, to say it that way, and one to start again with the expansion of Hamar, so that one can reduce the journey time Oslo-Trondheim too, down to five hours. It would be important not just for the Inland, but for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e636	This is a big message with a lot of seriousness. It has been shown that in several of the large projects we have, there is too much overcost. However, I agree with what Mr Gunnes has to say here: the Norwegian railway system is today a success. We have more departures and more travelers than ever. That's very good. I see a minority in the committee is pointing out that we need to change the pace in the sector. We've had that change of pace. We experienced a crisis in Norwegian railway in the autumn of 2010. I think the change of pace came after that crisis. It was the then state councilman Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who reversed a development. I set myself as committee leader that time. Then the railway budget was 6.4 billion. kr. No, it's 20. kr more – over 26 billion. kr. We have, over the ten years, gone from taking care of the railway to actually developing it further. But there is no doubt that when we have gone from a time when we had very few extensions to now having quite a lot, we have not had enough control attached to that work. And we're now going to see the result. Therefore, the Committee recommends that we look at the governance structure. To that I would say that we are doing that work. We look at the governance structure between the Directorate of Railways, Bane NOR and the Ministry of Transport and what we should do with it. There, I believe that cost control, understanding of roles and incentives in the sector need to be assessed. Several have pointed to the New Vegar model or a New Baner model. There is a current issue in this work that we naturally consider. I want to assure Stortinget that the government treats the increase in costs on individual projects and the expansion portfolio in general with great seriousness. Since this big message was submitted, we have also started an evaluation work for Follobanen. I would like to stress that we have asked the Directorate-General for Railways to give assignments to external people who have not been involved in the project, so that we get an independent evaluation of the project, which now has a cost of up to 36 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e655	The councils ended with the Folloban, so we can keep going a little bit. I now understand, what the Minister of Transport and the Government says, that the Follobane project is to be evaluated, but that it is a mission that is to be given to a company. The Working Party and the SV propose that a wide-ranging selection should be set up, with people with different competences, who can go through all aspects of the development project, both the planning phase and the deployment phase itself. This is a project there must be much to learn from when it comes to how railway development should not take place. Of course, it is very positive, but I also have to say that there has been too much negative, with increased costs, legal cases, contractors who were unable to do the job, and a lot of hiring both management and other types of labour. My question is, why does the Council of State not want to reduce such a sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e664	I think the representative Myrli is quite right: we are forced to learn from the Follobane project. It's a project that, the first time I heard about it, had a cost framework of 8 billion. kr. When it was confirmed, the figure was 12 billion. kr. Then there was a quick cost boost for 16 billion. kr. There has also been an extension of the project, so everything is not cost exceedance, but due to ground conditions and a number of bankruptcies, there have been significant cost exceedances. The whole idea of having this reviewed now is that we should learn from it. Getting an external and independent assessment of it, of how we can learn from errors, is the whole idea behind the assignment that I have given now. I think getting professionals to go in and see what we've done is the best way to get an evaluation and learn from the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e671	I think it is very good for the Minister of Transport to present a big message like this, so that we can discuss it. I think that's good. But at the same time, I want to know what the government's ambitions for the development of the railways are. As I mentioned in my main post, it was a great victory when the Stortinget gathered to have an ambition to build double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden and Skien – later also decisions on the Ringeriksbanen to Hønefoss. Now, when we read the documents from the government, the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Railways, all the years have gone by. In fact, there is uncertainty as to whether there are plans to build the double track completed for these cities. I simply want to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: Do we get double tracks? Where applicable: When are double tracks for Lillehammer, Halden, Skien and Hönefoss completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e678	We're building more railways than ever before. The budget is now, as I said, 26 billion. kr. If you look at track sections like Kliverud-Sørli-Akersvika, we know it's coming. We know that the Ringerix Railway will be built, but there is uncertainty about when we really start. But there are challenges: when we adopted e.g. The Folloban was costing $8 billion. kr, the decision was of 12 billion. kr, and today the bill is up to 36 bn. kr. There are also challenges associated with the Eastfold Railway. That distance we thought would cost 20 billion. kr, now has a best estimate of 60 billion. kr. There are some challenges that make it necessary for us to have control over the costs in order to point to a year here. I also mean that it's right for Stortinget to know what a project costs, before a decision is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e685	I agree with a lot of what is said here, but the big question is, why in the world has it changed so much just in three years? The current national transport plan was adopted in 2017. It's been three years. That's right, what the Minister of Transport says about costs in Eastfold. For the double track through Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg, the costs are now three or fourfold compared to three years ago. This is terribly serious. We can't hold on like that. I'm not looking to blame anyone, I'm looking for us to get away from this, and that we can have an offensive bet on the railway ahead. When we discuss other sectors – whether it's cultural institutions, whether it's the energy sector, whether it's hospitals – we have some goals about when things are going to be done. So it happens that it cracks, yes, absolutely, but it must be possible to have some goals in the railway area as well. I repeat once again: when will double tracks be able to be completed to the four cities mentioned above?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e696	It's probably not years that have been missing in this sector, it's a real implementation. But I'm in agreement with the representative Myrli points to here. The national transport plan adopted in this Chamber in 2017 was almost out of date when it was adopted. One believed that the outer part of the Eastfold Railway would cost 20 billion. kr. Now it's $60 billion. kr. Everyone understands that it has meaning for expansion. That's why it's so important now that we get good cost estimates that we can trust, and then we have to have an extension after that. That's what I'm working on. We are forced to have real estimates that we can trust, which we can adopt a build-up after. That's why I say: Everyone knows that the Kleverud–Sørli–Akersvika route will come. Everyone knows the Ringeriksban will come. But right now we have large cost exceedances on two parts related to Follobanen, connecting to Østfold, and we are forced to control it before we adopt further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e703	I absolutely share the concerns that Myrli's representative is raising here, but I want a little bit back to the principal. Because somehow there has to be some system failure when we see the results that we're doing now. Governmental parties write – incredible enough: ‘The railway reform has now been effective for some years and good results have been achieved, inter alia, through the deployment of passenger train services on the Sørlandsbanen, Jærbanen, Bergensbanen, Vossabanen, Dovrebanen, Raumabanen, Trønderbanen and Nordlandsbanen.’ I also drove my first trip today with SJ. They continue to write: ‘This has resulted in lower costs for the State while improving the supply to customers.’ I repeat: I had my first trip today. Can the Council of State at this stage seriously support such a claim and will this already lead to the possibility of overshooting of investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e724	The representative Constantraune will deal with this with system failure. And yes, it has our system failure here. But I think the main challenge has been that when one had a railway budget of about 6 B.C.E. kr and maintenance of approx. Three to four billion. kr, had a 2-3 billion. SEK for investments. Today, there is an entirely different investment budget. Norway has actually gone from making very small investments. When I was in charge of the committee, I visited Vestfold, and then I went 60 pst. by rail investments in Norway to the Westfold region. This was in 2011. So we've actually gone from making quite few, small investments to now having quite large investments. The learning curve has been quite steep, and everything has been documented that we have not had enough control over the costs, and we are forced to do so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e733	I want to speak to the Council of State, because the same parties also refer once again to the railway reform in this setting. It involves a different organisation, planning, development, operation and maintenance of the railway structure, with more means – for it is the Stortinget that decides – where, among other things. Path NOR has had an important role in the development of the structure itself. At the same time, the timing states that there must be an assessment of the governance structure between the Directorate of Railways, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, and that ‘Bane NOR can carry out development projects and work in the field of operation, maintenance and renewal in a way that provides optimum use of resources’. What does the Council of State think after the whole railway sector, through a comprehensive and thorough railway reform, has turned its head around? Is the model chosen, appropriate and forward-looking, or shall any challenge involve new reorganisations and more state-owned companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e740	I think the new organisation that has arrived is a step in the right direction, but it is true that the cost estimates that a built-in NTP was made before the railway reform, so the problems were grounded before NTP. I think that the new structure that former government councils have set up has been good for us. It's made us open, we've got things in the light, but it's still not good enough. Therefore, there is a need to look at the governance structure between Bane NOR, the Directorate of Railways and the Ministry of Transport. This setting will also show the current cursor position. We have seen that we have had some of the same challenges on the road. The state road service had cost exceedances, did not have full control. Among other things, we received a model with New Roads that has proved to be very good. I think that looking at that kind of model also for the railway can be a right step, but we haven't concluded that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e747	It does not seem to me that the Directorate-General for Railways will hire a consulting company to do the job relating to evaluation. One thing is the difficulty of finding companies that are haphiles, which include: the construction industry has pointed out. Another thing is how the Rail Directorate has been involved. It's allowed to ask whether key people can also be inhabile there or at the limit of it. Remember that – there is a very small professional environment in Norway. There are a lot of people there, including is the well- paperworked assistant railway manager, who has had an important responsibility for this project in the past, in crucial phases. As I mentioned in my post, it was e.g. choosing correctly tunnel drilling with insanely expensive and complicated drilling machines, rather than choosing traditional drilling and blasting on which Norwegian contractors could more easily be contracted? Will the Council of State consider the Stability Regulation very carefully in this matter and really look at an independent sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e755	I'm busy doing the same thing as the representative here. I believe what Mr Nävra says is important – that we have confidence in the work that is now being done – and that is why it is an independent company. I think that with the kind of work, which is very complicated, which one should have a real review of, it's having external companies that have the competence to provide us with a clear job on this, a good way to do it. It is important – I would like to say – that there is someone who has not been involved in the project, who will look at it, who will make an independent assessment in view of the project, which we know has had significant overruns. That's the whole idea behind it. So the work is given to the Directorate of Railways, but they use an external company. I think the work they want to do will be useful for us to learn what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e760	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e767	Since 2013, there has been a formidable investment in rail development in Norway. There's been a change of pace without equal. In NTP, in contrast to previous governments – before 2013 – visible costs were contained and financed. And yes, you could say that those numbers didn't last long. It's a problem that you have the political input of the trade unions and the input and documentation of all the underlying agencies to set goals. Governments did this before 2013 – targets were set. The difference is that with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, goals were set without funding. You decided to build double tracks without deciding what to do with it. I myself from Westfold know well that there is a railway track that is more than ten years old, without it being used, because it was important to build double tracks. But what do we want with that? That should be interesting. Fortunately, today's government parties and the Advance Party have been dedicated to getting something out of it. We have a goal of route time and travel time. It should be the most important thing. Unfortunately, in projects, we have seen overruns and cost caps that are formidable. And yes, we know that on the Eastfold course, it's the three-way. I can't. Then it doesn't help much to continue as before, as the Working Party and the Center Party will. They will continue as before and believe it is the right thing to do. For the Progress Party there is at least one thing that is certain: the railway reform has been a success so far – in terms of known figures. The launch of trains will save more than 10 billion. kr over 10 years that we can use for reinvestment in new and more jobs. Then there is one thing that we are not so satisfied with in the Progress Party in terms of rail reform: competition in development. The Progress Party wants a real competitor to Bane NOR, a ‘New Baner’, à la det New Veger has been for the State Road Administration. It's sharpened both agencies to see other solutions, think new, build cheaper, build better, and maybe look at trasé choices as well. The railway is demanding to expand – very rigid lines. If you're going to deal with all the stations that were previously adopted, which are built around the 1880s, and you're going to hit right where they were at that time, it might be demanding. Sometimes you might think, if it's possible that it's going to be in the edge zone, it has to be right there, it's going to be the center in 100 years? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e778	We have talked a lot about lack of cost control and increasing cost estimates. But what hasn't been mentioned here is that we've spent less money on the railroad on annual average for NTP in the first few years. This has to be mentioned. In fact, less money is allocated per year than the annual average for NTP. Had we been lying on the annual average, which has been adopted in the NTP, it would have helped a good deal. This is not mentioned. On the roads we lie a little bit above. It reflects that, of course, the transport sector is not in a political vacuum. There have been two other state councils in the past who are happy to go, and perhaps not as happy on the railway as I hope the current state council is. I just want to mention that, because that's actually a pretty important point. That Follobanen has become a project by itself, we now understand. It's big, but it's also been lingering on the road. A lot has happened. A lot of strange information has come up. The construction industry has revealed some things that haven't been lucky, there's been bankruptcy there, there's been a little bit of each. That's why I also mentioned in my reply to the Council of State that maybe we should look at the concept very early. We see that many Norwegian entrepreneurs are unable to miss as large projects as this is, so we could have considered completely different technical solutions at a much earlier stage. It's very difficult to go into it, but I hope that the selection or consulting company that the government might use goes into that part too – because it's about huge sums of these projects – so that the technical solutions, that is, the concept being chosen, are discussed at an early stage. There is also a part that has happened along the way on the project at Follobanen, which it is worth mentioning. At some point it disappeared something. What was planned early, was kind of gone, without me seeing that it was for discussion here in the hall. This was the case, for example. how to link the Folloban northwards to the liner freight terminal. As it looks now, it ends up not going good there. That means that several thousand households are hit by a lot of noise, maybe even at night, instead of getting a connection to the line freight terminal and to Lillestrøm. That's a pretty important point. It just disappeared. I don't know when it was gone. It was in the planning base in 2010 or something like that, before my time here in the hall. Then I mentioned it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e791	There are some incomprehensible cost excesses no matter what you say. Costs exceedances in principle have nothing to do with how much money you spend on the railways. There is a stake on the railway that Stortinget has decided. At the same time, the NTP we're going to work with now is pretty fine-tuning. It's not that much to go on. If it starts to go wrong at one end, it will have consequences in the other. So you have to make choices, maybe difficult choices. As far as reforms are concerned, it is now almost as if a rail reform has not been implemented. Thus, a structure on the Norwegian railway system has been deliberately chosen which, through this report, appears not to have worked in terms of the development, planning and construction of the railways – no matter what people say about how much money has been allocated. This message shows that it has not worked. You have to go in and evaluate the structure you have chosen, but it must also be possible – as the Centre Party and others think – to have a completely different structure on the railway. You say you should go back to what was before. Yes, it is actually possible to have a state structure on the railway, which you have in many countries, but set completely different requirements for execution. We now see in the position of the message that the majority actively goes in and says that we have to look at the organisation again. There is no doubt that Bane NOR is the driver of these projects; it has always been. And the Executive Director of Bane NOR goes out and says that they have to get more air under the wings, that they have to have the freedom to do what they're supposed to do, and that they don't need all these around them that interfere with the work and their processes of difficult projects – that's what he says in the interview in the evening post. Then I think that so: it would be good if someone actually did something with the organization that you had, and made the requirements that were to, especially when you got an invitation like the one you got from Bane NOR, and especially when the employees in Bane NOR really agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e802	Having a situation report for the railway is interesting reading, with what is being debated here, both management, development and how to run planning. I'll say a little bit about what's on the Eastfold Railway south of Moss. When I started in local politics, like around the year 2000, the NSB had been planning the double track for seven to eight years. Then it was determined, intercity is fixed, it's done over all the years. Then came the demands of node, density, urban development. Yeah, it's solid. From the 1990s, it would cost 3 billion. kr to extend the entire Eastfold track to Halden with double tracks, we read about a few years ago. 20 B.C.E. And now we're going to read 60 billion. kr. It's just going to keep going, I think. If we're going to save money for the next generation, at least we're not going to transfer the bill if the railroad is important. What's going on in the future is whether we're going to maintain the bonding that makes up a lot of deaks in each of the cities around the nodes that we've decided, which we're now talking about, until 2040. So that's another 20 years, and we were doing this 20 years ago. It's an entire generation. That's not how we can build the railway, I think. When the Eastfold Railway was adopted in 1873, it took six years, the string was cut. There was just one track and 3,000 men at work, but it did the job. So there's something that's going down the road here. I think and hear that now you think differently. You move the projects at the end of the period, and then it's just going on and on, that this might not be built at all. But the sole proprietors, and not least those who live along the line and around the connecting points, actually don't know where to live. They are put on hold, the sole proprietor does not know what to invest in, and the cities stand without development. So the trajectory and node is the most important thing we decide, and then we have to release bonded areas, so that you can get urban development, as the fastening and nodal strategy actually says.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e815	Cost control starts here in this room before decisions are taken. Only 14 days ago, someone in this room would decide to build the North Norway track without a single penny on the table. The Ringerix Railway, which we decided on in 2013, had a cost framework of 1.5 billion. kr for planning and start-up. The Folloban had a frame of approx. 6 B.C.E. at the time of its adoption. So it turns out that reality isn't like that. The reality is that it costs more, and some of the reason is, of course, that new demands have been made. Rome was built as one tunnel, Follobanen being built in two. The top speed on the Gardermobanen is 200 km / h, we plan for 250 km / h in the case of Follobanen. What are the consequences for the project? Cost control is about Bane NOR's ability to have the freedom to choose the concept and to have enough money, such as a "New Banner". Course NOR depends on the annual appropriations. The problem this year isn't really that there's been so much more expensive on the Westfold track, but it's gone so much faster. You've come further in completion than you thought, the bill is maturing. Cost control is also about the influence of municipalities. 14 days ago, the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV in Nordre Follo decided to scrape the planning program for the connection of the Eastern Line to Follobanen, not because it did not work what was planned, but because they wanted a more expensive project. Where is the point of no return in the planning process? Municipalities must be present, but at some point there must be a point of no return, so that you do not decide late in the process and with a delaying effect something that is not planned, at a time when everything else is planned – where you stand in front of the start, and then you really get a stop. Cost control also concerns, inter alia: why there is always a problem with mercury. Why is it a problem to cross the Glomma delta, why are you surprised that it's difficult? I would think that there should be professional environments here now that are gradually competent in mercury, and I know that there are a lot of people who know where mercury is. Preprocessed here, before Stortinget takes a decision, that's where the largest key lies for cost control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e826	This is an interesting discussion and debate. I believe that through a debate which this will jointly be able to contribute to improvements in the railway sector. When we initially adopted a national transport plan with a level of ambition for the railway in 2017, it was based on some economic framework, some estimate of costs, which had been carried out in the years prior to 2017. Saying that's a consequence of a railway reform seems very strange. The level of ambition laid down in the national transport plan is the result of the old model, the old way of thinking, the old way of thinking, the old way of making cost estimates in NTP. I would say that it is a democratic problem when the deviations become as fundamental as what we now see in the railway sector. It is a fundamental problem that we do not have a good enough basis for decision in this Chamber when we take these decisions. We need to work together to improve that. The railway reform, in my opinion, is a step in the right direction, as the Council of State also said, but it is not final, it is a need for improvement. What has happened in the meantime, from 2017 until today? Well, we've had experience with the Nye Veier model. We see that it is possible to think differently in the transport sector in the early planning phase to reduce risk and involve entrepreneurs much earlier in the process of facilitating a completely different type of flexibility in the implementation of projects. New roads have shown in road construction that they are able to reduce costs and build faster. That's amazing. I experience through the decision that at least the Workers' Party now also acknowledges that this model has something good to do that should also be assessed in the railway sector. I think that's very good. That's the part of the learning and the development we have to take with us if we're going to get better at building big and complicated transportation projects in this country – whether it's on the railways, or if it's on the way. We need to have the ability to think new, while not allowing organisational models or planning models to be fixed. Therefore, I think it is very nice that we now get a decision on and a follow-up from the government on how we can use the New Veger model in Norwegian railway construction. I think that will improve the whole sector – whether it means a separate company, whether it means improvements for Bane NOR, I think it will, just like we see for the State Road Service, or whether it could be that we can actually use the existing company. Anyway, I'm going to be pretty pragmatic if we just achieve the results we really want in common. We have a common objective that we should stay within the costs and build the most efficient and most feasible railway in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e841	There is a lot of focus on costs and cost control in this debate, and that is very good. It's very important. The representative Nävra mentioned that former transport ministers before today's minister might have been more happy on the road and not so happy on the railway. I want to say that it is at least right that the two former Ministers for Transport of the Progress Party were and are very happy to go, but that does not mean that we still have no focus on the railway. The government, of which we were part, managed to have two thoughts in her head at the same time and put it both ways. One example that I can mention both for today's Minister, for Nävra and for the whole House is that the former Minister of Transport of the Progress Party, Solvik-Olsen, actually stopped several road projects where there were cost exceedances and lack of cost control. In my region and in Fasterunes region, the E6 Gudbrandsdalen was stopped and E16 Kongsvinger was stopped. That's right, then you have to put your foot down, and that's a advice to today's Minister of Transport as well. I hope that the Minister for the future will stop projects that go badly, that have no control and exceedances, and not stop projects that go on rail. I want to repeat what I mentioned in my previous post as well: The Dovrebahn northwards from the Gardermoen and through Eidsvoll and Stange are stopped – exposed. This is a project that has been started. It's totally unreal. We plan roads that are not being built, and we can plan railways that are not being built, but it is rare to build a road that is not being used. So here we're building a railway that's not used, because the double track that's built in the past and that's now being built through Eidsvoll, we have no use, no effect until the double track is finished for Hamar. It must provoke the representative Sverre Myrli, who, after all, has started part of the projects on the Dovrebanen today. Then the Minister tells us to look at the governance structure – Bane NOR and the Directorate and the Ministry of Transport. The place was also concerned that we should look at the models and be flexible in order to get good solutions. I think so, too. We've had very good experience working together in government, and we're still going to have good experience working with the government in the future. I'm convinced that we get a good solution on the railway, as we got on the road side, but I'm not quite sure if it just helps to look at the governance structure. We in the Progress Party are very clear that one must have a competitive element in this image. We've seen that with New Veier. We believe that no matter how you do it with the governance structure, it's important to get an alternative professional environment. So it's not sure that you need that directorate -- it's not necessarily positive. There have been some criticisms of the rail reform here, and I do not agree with that criticism. We in the Progress Party are largely satisfied with the reform. There are some adjustments that may need to be implemented, but the main lines of competition have been important and important. After that most of us should go down to Oslo Central Station and celebrate that NORD, which is driven that SJ, will start driving trains in Norway. I also encourage representatives Nävra and Myrli to take the Norwegian flag and join us later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e854	First of all, to my good colleague Gunnes, who thinks the opposition is negative: No, it's going very well on the railways, and it's done so in the last 15 years after the railway development has changed its pace. I have spoken many times from this pulpit about my own experience, for example. from Lillestrom station, where Lillestrom and Asker are leaving trains every 10 minutes. It's a success. It's such a great success that the station is all full of people, and the trains are all full of people. Yes, a lot has happened, but it has to happen more. Of course, I'd say to the representative Gunnes, there's an increase in passenger numbers. Something else would be a scandal. So it's basically nothing to disagree about. But we want to move on. We need to develop and expand the railways more. The government’s report on the impact is concerned with three issues: changing the rate of expansion of the Vestfold railway, increasing costs on Follobanen and increasing costs of Sandbukta-Moss-Såstad on Østfoldbanen. I hope that Gunnes and others think it is okay that we are allowed to debate the issues and issues that the government has presented to the Stortinget in this big message. Then I would say to the representative Johnsen, who said that I had said something about doing more money. No, it's not, absolutely not, but it's about building more railways. I think we need to spend more money on the railroad, but there's no point just spending as much money as possible. That's why we have to take this discussion: how do we get the most possible railway? How do we build up and upgrade the railway for the future, and how can we build the most efficient rail system to achieve climate emissions and other goals that we have set ourselves? In the past, we were asked about when we got the double track. I've noticed that lately we're asked if we get double tracks at all, from many of the cities that we've previously talked about within the intercity area that would get double tracks. The rapporteurs and municipal politicians, business leaders and others are now asking the question: are we getting double tracks at all? This applies in both Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Sandefjord, Larvik and Hamar, to mention someone. In Hamar, there is a great debate in these days, an intense political debate on double-track development. Here again, people ask the question: do we get double tracks – especially after the railway manager has gone a long way in saying that new railways should not be built through cities, just between cities? We need to address this, and we need to give clear answers for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e865	I can agree with the representative Johnsen that we need a party after today's debate, because it is very serious that we now see these cost exceedances. I have to be honest to say that it has consequences. It is true that the representative Johnsen says that Kleverud-Sørli and Sørli-Åkersvika are a good project. It's going to come. I can bring a leak right now: the railway will be a budget winner in 2021. This is because of the cost excesses on other routes, both on the Eastfold and Folloban, and because of the increased need for the westfold. When it comes to the Vestfold track, I want to say that there are actually lower costs, and we get to the goal faster than the Storting actually planned. So this has consequences. So it doesn't apply to the project itself, but I thought the birth of the Inland and the region up against Hamar is very simple: we know that the expansion will happen here – we only have to consider when it's right that it happens. I want to answer some of this. The representative Nävra mentions this with the concept attached to Follobanen, and I think I have to be an important part of the evaluations to be done, just to get the professional assessments. We should be aware that when it comes to Follobanen, not all costs are exceeded. The representative Igstad named 6 bn. kr, as one started with. So now it's 36 billion. kr, but there are also in-flight conceptual changes that have to be assessed against it. Someone has said that the railway reform is not working. Then I would like to say that there is a short cut, for example what the Bane NOR manager points to, is that he needs more of the railway reform, he needs more freedom of action to implement. And when the representative Igstad points to, among other things, municipality — what happens to New Roads in their meeting with some municipalities? Yes, they can say to some municipalities that if we don't get what we want, we can choose another project. Then we know that there are a lot of municipalities that have a lot more willingness to look at solutions that can be more reasonable and better. Therefore, it is possible to look at portfolio management and free trade for those who build in this sector, one of the ways we can reduce costs, and we can get more built. That's what I'm going to experience. I'm going to wish we could build more, and we're going to use the funds we've seen for the railway. Although we have more resources than ever before, the demand for building is luckily greater than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e877	Bengt Fasterale has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e882	I fully agree with Mr. Johnsen about the project on the Dovreban, and you have an opportunity to do something about it before the summer vacation, if you like. This can be done in a revised way, and you can view it as part of the crisis packages it is now being negotiated about. At the same time, I want to return to what is said repeatedly that New Roads is the solution. I just want to point out that New Roads have done a lot of good in road construction, especially with the construction phase itself. There's no doubt that when they run the projects from a to a, it's come out very well. But I'm not a supporter of the fact that you have to decide in advance who will build what, without political governance. Maybe such a solution could be even better for the railway than it is for the road. You have to give freedom of action to those who are going to do the job. I guess that's the debate we have to deal with when we're dealing with NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e889	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e894	I noticed that the new Veier model has been almost geniuses dressed here today. It is very good – I have also said that here from the pulpit – and it is especially about early involvement of entrepreneurs. But there's some picks on it as well, and I can't go into anything special right now. My point is that if we're going to have some similar models, at least these institutions have to get even more freedom in the sense that they have to be able to evaluate what concept they're going to follow, without getting orders from above. We know of the study carried out by the Dørdal-Grimstad project at E18, where NTNU and SINTEF found that the increase in costs and the poor social economy were due to the misappropriation of the concept at an early stage. Maybe it should be, for example. not been four-field wide way down there? If this is the case that the railway becomes a winner in the state budget for next year, I will bring out the Norwegian flag, and then something good came out of the fact that the Progress Party went out of government. I'm not going to bring up the Swedish today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e901	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e906	I just want to comment on the more people who belong to the four parties who voted in favour of the rail reform, have said that this has nothing to do with the rail reform. Well, it has, because it was the railway reform that made us get the organization we have today, with a department top, a directorate and Bane NOR. Now we get a separate company under Bane NOR, which is called Track Operations, and in addition we have the company Baneservice. So, this has absolutely something to do with the railway reform. My impression is that Bane NOR is very much detailed, both by the directorate and by the department. I'm not sure if this is a good way to organise the railway – or I'm almost sure it's not a good way. We could make this much easier. We all saw that Bane NOR-Chief Frimannslund was out with what I wanted to call an emergency alarm, where he asked for other framework conditions for Bane NOR. The Workers' Party is set to be involved and watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e913	I just want to thank you for a good debate. I think this is an extremely important debate, which we must have in the future, simply because we have a common desire to make the railway sector as good as possible. That means that we also have to be able to deal with, in terms of these cost excesses, the way we organize. I sincerely believe that the railway reform we carried out takes us a long step in the right direction. At the same time, we have gained experience from the Nye Veier model. We see that the New Veger model has a good deal of good in it, which now also recognizes the opposition, and which I think can also affect the way we organize the railway in the future, just to improve the existing organisational changes that have been made. There I think it's a good part we can learn, and not least I think it means that there's a good part we can implement in the existing structure of Bane NOR, just like the State Road Service extends one step further because they have someone to measure themselves against. The way to think about it in the field of transport construction, I am convinced that it will also produce good results for the railway sector. Then it's important that we have good cost control. I think we have a lot to learn, unfortunately, from the Follobane project, so we look forward to getting the evaluation from the government and the Council of State. I think it will give us much useful learning, even in the further work, to get as optimal both the organisation and implementation of the projects as possible. Thank you for a good debate. I don't think that's the last time we have this issue on the agenda. I also believe that this debate gives us useful lessons for the work we are going to do on a new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e924	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e941	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e948	A better flight offer on the short-haul network – a lot has happened since this representative proposal was presented, and we can hardly say that the offer has improved somewhat after what has happened in our society. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on good cooperation in this matter. It is incredibly important that we have a good and well-functioning flight offer on the short-haul network in Norway. The districts are especially dependent on it. It's district train, bus and tram – all at once. In the committee we discussed and asked for a postponement of the discussion of this proposal for a representative, because there is a great deal that literally hangs in the air right now, and it may be a bit difficult to have a concrete debate when there is no overview of the consequences of the corona crisis. The proposal comes in the wake of the announcement by Onyøe that the closure of a number of commercial air routes was justified by the excessive level of charges. The state buys FOT routes on the short-range network for well 700 million. kr per year. It is important to point out that this matter may in this way relate in particular to the proposed cut from Onions on the commercial parts of the flight routes. The government has recently reduced the fees, but industry actors say that this is not enough. After the Korona, the aviation is with broken back. There are lay-offs and redundancies in the industry, and many charges have now been temporarily removed. There have been large government purchases of air routes across the country, including on the main route network. It's a little too early to say what the long-term need for aviation and the short-range network is. We need to have a good discussion about that. Increased government purchases are a possibility, lower level of charges is another option. We also see that the Korona has had consequences for international cooperation between operators in the field of aviation electrification, and we see that this work can be put back. It is possible that industry may need to re-evaluate strategies, and we are also politicians in so far as the ambitions relating to when emissions-free aeroplanes on the short-range network can be made available. In any case, the goal must be to get back a well-functioning flight offer for and across the country. It's not least important for most people in the districts and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e965	The working party is very busy having a short-distance network in the country. The Norwegian short-haul network is unique in a global context and is very important for maintaining the settlement in the rural areas of the country. It is part of the country that uses this airport network as the only functional offer to get around in its own county and to the county capitals. The districts make airplanes the only offer that is effective enough to transport people to town halls, hospitals and public meeting places. In addition to the public transport function, the short-haul network will in future be very well suited to both developing and using zero-emission solutions for air transport as well. For this reason, the Workers' Party expects the government to ensure an offer on this network, and that we also develop the offer on the short-distance network when we return to more normal conditions after covid-19. However, it is of course regrettable that infectious diseases, rules related to them and the government's tax increases have led to a worse offer on the commercial routes. This in turn leads to a lower income for the companies that operate those routes, and then it goes without saying that one has to go down on frequency. The Labour Party expects companies to be compensated, at least for the disadvantages caused by the rules relating to covid-19, as well as for the government to review and evaluate the consequences of the increase in charges in aviation. The fiscal and environmental taxes have increased by about 2.8 billion. kr during the period in which the bourgeois government has been in power in the country. With that, I address the proposal of which the Labour Party is part, minority proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e976	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e981	Of course, this debate and my intervention are based on a situation that has normalised itself after – the aviation crisis, we must be able to call it. There is no secret that SV does not have a particular sense of congestion in the transport industries using fossil fuels. At the same time, it is obvious that aeroplanes are a very important means of transport in parts of the country where there are no competitive and environmentally friendly alternatives. This applies in particular to the Short-Range Network. We also know that taxes can control people's behaviour in the environmental direction also in transport. Of course, it is not a good thing for the environment that we fly as much as a country with almost 50 million inhabitants – if we had been a European average country. SV has long tried to find solutions to increase the passenger charge while protecting the short-haul network. That's actually pretty important, because there's a way that the airline tickets are so expensive that they can't be increased, they're expensive enough as they are. But once again, I have to say, we meet this heresy's EEA legislation that wants fees to be the same for all destinations in Europe. This does not distinguish between the necessary routes in the districts and other air travel, which means that the ticket prices are considered relatively high on the short-haul network. SV believes that aviation as a whole should be organised in a way that favours the necessary personnel transport and motivates other solutions where flights are not necessary. In this setting, we refer to Avinor’s 2017 travel habits survey, which shows that a small proportion of the population accounts for a large proportion of flights domestically. About 10 pst. about half of the population makes domestic travel. We have to take this over. That's an important point. A British Climate Committee has proposed a new device on the air passenger tax they call ‘frequency flyer levy’, which means that passengers will pay an exponentially higher fee the more they fly in a year — or perhaps over a period of several years. We think this in SV is a very interesting proposal, and we ask the government to investigate this in order to avoid unfortunate social and geographical consequences. It is important to exempt the short-haul network for aeroplanes below 20 tonnes. Then most people here realize that we're protecting at least the two smallest aircraft types to On Island today, and that's most of them. I find it rather disappointing that no more parties join us in such an investigation, and that the government parties do not agree to a request to the government to adapt the charging structure to stimulate demand for zero-emission aircraft and start work on adapting the infrastructure at Avinor's aerodromes to zero emissions. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e998	The representative Arne Nävra has taken the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1003	The aviation situation has changed dramatically since the introduction of the measures to meet the corona virus on 12 March 2020 – violent, that is a completely different world. These measures have resulted in a dramatic drop in the number of passengers in both short-range, medium-range and long-range, and the drop in the number of passengers has had a significant negative impact on the airlines. The exceptional situation that it is now facing, with an outbreak of covid-19, underlines the great importance of aviation in our long-term country, and I hope this will lead to a clear awareness of the important role of aviation in Norway both in the future and in other discussions on aviation. It is a support bar for this country to function. The government has carried out several tax increases that have weakened aviation and made companies less equipped to deal with the current crisis. The centre party has for several years warned that increased charges will lead to worse conditions for aviation. We will show you, among other things: to the air passenger charge, which is the same for all destinations within Europe, which does not discriminate between the necessary routes in the districts and other air travel, and which results in the price of tickets being too high on the short-haul network. It has been mentioned, and I repeat, that fiscal and environmental taxes have increased by over 2.8 billion. kr during this period of government. The CO 2 tax has increased from 200 million. SEK to nearly 600 million. NOK, there has been the establishment and increase of the air passenger charge, from NOK 0 to nearly NOK 2 billion. kr, and VAT has been increased from 8 pst. to 12 pst. The size is treated Innst. 197 S for 2019-2020 on 19 March and adopted several decisions to improve the framework conditions for aviation. These decisions include the removal of airport charges and the removal of air passenger charges. In addition, Stortinget has decided that the low rate of VAT, such as includes passenger transport, is temporarily reduced from 12 pst. to 6 pst., even 31 October 2020. It is positive, and it has been imperative, even though many of the measures do not have the effect you could imagine, because the activity has been so low. The situation is unclear and there will certainly be a need for an extension of the measures already in place and for the introduction of new measures. On this basis, we also promote a proposal together with the Workers' Party and SV, which has been mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1021	The representative, Mr Fasteraune, may also refer to the proposal of the Central Party in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1026	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1031	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1037	The flight offer should be good throughout Norway, and we have made many adjustments in Norwegian air traffic to get to it. You have e.g. approx. 50 airports in Norway today. Seven of them are going in profit, and 43 are going in deficit. But it's important that the small airports are subsidized by the major airports. We have a system of FOT routes, which several have mentioned, with 730 million. kr annual subsidisation of the provision of air services in the districts. That's very good. Then you get a good offer there, too. In addition, consideration is given to the distribution of charges between small and large aircraft. The first six tons of the aeroplane are free of charge when it comes to the take-off fee. The big and heavy planes have to pay something extra. These adjustments have been made to ensure that we have a district friendly flight offer throughout the country. We talked about the railway in the previous case, and that it's always an alternative. For my part and for my left, there should have been a high-speed option, so that for example. 70 pst. of all the air traffic between Trondheim and Oslo could have been taken by train, with exactly the same time spent. From I travel from Trondheim until I get here on Stortinget, I use approx. 3 hours and 15 minutes. That's what the train has to fall on as well. Then it becomes an alternative. There are many great measures that can facilitate air traffic, because it is not electrical yet. But in the setting of this case, I can read that we have agreed – and that is very good – great measures and have great faith that air traffic can become electrical. What I think is one of the most important things in the whole setting of this case, is that almost all of the Storting says clearly from the outset that we expect and have good hope that the air traffic will become electrical. These environmental taxes, which are strict today, can then be lightened.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1054	Norway is a long-distance country, but with too little and too little rail services. For many, aeroplanes are basic infrastructure, and the short-haul network is absolutely necessary for public transport. Every year, 1.5 million people travel online. 1 million of these trips are on tendering routes where the State enters and finances routes which do not have a commercial basis. Many of these people are either going to hospitals, are going to public services or are going to visit a relative. These are necessary air travel, and we must ensure that this flight offer is available. At the same time, Norway would have done very well in a world championship in air travel. We fly on average most domestically in Europe and are in a fourth place in the total number of flights in Europe. From 2005 to 2017, Norway doubled air traffic. We need the infrastructure that planes give us, but we don't need a little elite flying much more than everyone else, at the expense of the climate. Then we have an ongoing crisis that forces us to change our habits, at good and bad. A habit we have to get rid of for good is unnecessary work trips. That's why Red goes in to introduce a progressive fee on planes that increase the more travelers you have, to end unnecessary air travel between the big cities and endless weekends to London and New York at campaign prices. No fee shall apply on the first trip-return in order to avoid making it impossible for a normal family to travel on a summer holiday, and the fee must be higher for those travelling on the first class, who on average have between two and three times as high emissions as those on the economic grade. We want the tax imposed on the largest cities and not on those living in the districts. It is only on routes where a person could take the train, or to the rest of the world, that one has to pay the fee. So it's like 91 pst. of us flying less than three trips domestically in 2017. So our fee won't hit most people. Some may think it's top that the aviation industry is struggling because of the coronary crisis because we're going to fly less, but we're at risk of a rather gloomy future where a few can afford to pollute mass when they fly on many and long vacations abroad, while many don't get a decent flight offer to get to the hospital or visit your grandmother. It's unfair. The way out of the coronary crisis can also be a way out of the climate crisis. Then more is needed than before social governance to reduce both differences and emissions. We need to create a fairer and short-distance society, and we need to put the foot down for the business class elite. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1067	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1072	The government's aim is to ensure that Norway has a good and forward-looking air route offer. In the districts, the short-distance network is considered to be a collective service, and the provision of air transport is an important requirement for value creation throughout the country. This has become very clear in the crisis we are now experiencing with covid-19. We know that some places without flights are not possible to get to hospitals without it taking several days to travel. Therefore, the government has proposed to spend more than 1 billion. kr to purchase air route services in the months to come if necessary. We're using over 700 million today. kr related to the FOT route offer we have today, just to make a good offer in District Norway. I would also like to thank Mr Stortinget for his good cooperation with the aviation sector through the crisis we have been through — and we are in. Then I am thinking about loan guarantees, about changes in fees and the fact that I am contributing to a significant government purchase of air routes. It will take time before Norwegian aviation is the same again and before society will fly as much as we have done before – if we ever will. It is therefore important, as a joint committee also points out, that this is also taken into account in the way we think about and develop Norwegian aviation policy. Since the beginning of March, I have had close dialogue with the industry on the situation and on measures. Naturally, I will continue to do so. I would also like to comment on some of the proposals put forward by the Committee. Internal aviation accounts for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector and a significant part of Norway's total CO 2 emissions. It is therefore important to ensure funding for many of the climate measures needed in aviation in the future. It is also more effective, on a general basis, to support through purchases and subsidies than through tax exemptions. And, as the representative mentioned in his statement, there are also state-aid issues related to the exemption of charges that will give a great advantage to just one airline. Air passenger charges provide important revenues to the State and, in order to keep the administrative costs of charging down, both for business and for the tax rate, there is likely to be fewer rates and exemptions. I look forward to many good and important discussions about Norwegian aviation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1090	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1095	Thank you to the Council of State. The last time we were in this room, I asked about direct flights to Kirkenes and Alta. You delivered that in four hours, so it promises very well. The short-haul network is particularly important for people and businesses in North Norway. There are few options, and there is an effective way to transport key personnel to save time. I think we can all agree on that. Some of the challenge for business, for which we get feedback, is that prices are extremely high. There's prizes that make a near able to travel the earth if you're going on a long trip. My question to the Council of State is, do you have any thoughts about how to bring down the price level of flights in the regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1102	It's true that the price level is high, and it's been particularly high in the situation we're in right now. It's also because, in order to be safe to fly, we have a guide that makes us have less capacity. So there's enough reason to think that the price level we have is going to be high in time. In general, in order to achieve a lower price level, competition is the very best tool. That is why it is important to provide FOT services, to improve competition in the supply than we have today. When we look at aerodrome expansion for some regions, for example: The Helgeland region is very concerned about getting an airport that can make them get other flight type routers, and I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1109	Now it is the case that the FOT route scheme is to be transferred to the county municipalities. Do you think there will be any positive or negative impact on flight prices in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1114	It is correct that from 1 January 2022 the county assumes responsibility for the FOT routes. I think that there will be states that are heavily involved in these paths. Among other things, I have dialogue with the county and the county council there, which of course was particularly concerned with Evenes-Bodø, when Onøe chose to close the commercial route. I experience a great commitment from the states, and they see the need. I also think it's going on simple things like adapting, for example, the time. For example, Evenes-Bodø leaves at 5 p.m. 06.20 from Evenes to Bodø. Sorry, it is not time. 06.20 very early, but when one knows how far one has to go to the airport, it becomes a supply that is relatively few users, and I think a lot of people will travel the evening before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1119	The President will draw attention to addressing the President when speaking in the Grand Chamber, and to the fact that the Council of State is not called ‘you’, but either ‘the Council of State’ or ‘the Minister’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1125	Governments were involved in this with the aviation infectious agent. It provides concrete advice on how operations in aviation can provide vector-friendly operations and is positive. Among other things, a measure in the supervisor is that there shall be an empty seat between each passenger. As the Council of State also said, this has an impact on the price and, in principle, perhaps also on the offer. What compensation does the Council of State see – both now and if this persists – that the companies flying on the short-haul network will receive, in order to avoid significant losses, and that everyone who relies on flying does not receive a lower offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1130	It is right, as the representative Fasterøne says, that the Commissioner for Disease Prevention creates some limitations. Norway was first out making such a guide, and I think it was very wise, because if people were willing to fly, they had to be sure that it was safe to fly. Significant work has now been done by EASA. The European authorities have also looked at this, and they have a different assessment. We're now considering a customization. This is a work that is now going on, and it is naturally enough the health authorities that manage it – in close dialogue with us. It's like creating limitations, but the most important thing for me is that it's safe to fly. Some of the guides we see are that because of the air systems, the air-conditioning systems, which are on-board aircraft, it is by the conditions very safe to fly. It has also been shown that some of the infections that have occurred have not occurred on board aircraft, but at the airport.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1139	The centre party has long pointed out that the high level of charges in Norwegian aviation is very unfortunate. Now it's temporarily reduced or removed, and the effect of course is somewhat limited because the number of flights is reduced. Therefore, in our view, compensation schemes which also compensate for parts of the loss of sales are very important. Norway may and should become the world leader in aviation electrification. Norway is suitable and recognised as a very interesting test area and first market for aviation electrification. If the industry gets into the kneeling now, it might never happen. I think that's a real problem. Will the necessary measures and instruments be put in place in due time to stimulate further development and that the next generation of aeroplanes may be electrically installed on the short-haul network?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1146	I think it's a very good question the representative Fasterøne raises – the very possibility that Norway can be an electric plane test area once in the future. Here it is that the rest of at least Fly-Europe looks to Norway. Norway has taken the initiative. Avinor and the Air Safety Authority have been forward-looking and are engaged in a significant and important work here, not least in close cooperation with Onions. I think that just those areas where we have the ability to fly smaller planes over shorter distances, will be the areas where we'll first have the ability to get to electric planes. It is important to me that we ensure progress in this work, and that at least the covid-19 situation should not cause us to come back, but that we continue the important work. I also welcome the signals that the Committee today points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1153	I noticed that the Council of State had noticed that I pointed to the problem of EEA legislation in terms of differentiating the air charges domestically and sharing domestically, for example. on the short-distance network, in relation to Europe. My question is simply whether the Council of State has assessed this and agrees that this is a problem. And if the Council of State wants to take a little hold of it and look at the space for action that had to be in the EEA Agreement, in order to differentiate the charges so that the short-haul network is protected in relation to, for example, requested higher environmental taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1158	I am happy with the EEA Agreement. I think it's an agreement that stands out very well, but I'm also concerned that we should take advantage of the space for action that is within the EEA Agreement. But there are some danger pits here that I want to warn against, and it's clear that if we give tax cuts that particularly affect or benefit one airline, there will be some challenges that will be demanding, and I'm therefore not recommending. But looking at what the EEA Agreement provides, I am willing to do. So I want to be concerned that we need to have taxes in this sector. This is one of the sectors that have large CO 2 emissions, and even if we are in an exceptional state now for aviation, we expect to come back to a normal situation, and then there should be charges – that should be the normal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1166	Now today's proposal and today's case are basically about our short-haul network, but the aviation system in Norway is such that everything is related to everything, both the short-haul airports and the other airports within the Avinor grid, along with the non-state airports. And the sum total makes this that we initially have regular services every day from about. 50 aerodromes in Norway. It is very important, and it is very important that we continue this aviation system. The major operator of our flight deck aerodromes is Ontøe. Onkøe also has a large base at Sandefjord Airport Torp, which is one of the major non-state airports. Torp is now in danger of having to close. We get daily reports from Torp and Westfold. Is the Minister for Transport aware of the importance of Torp for Onions, and does he have any solution for Torp?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1173	This is also a good question, because Torp has a big impact on Onions. They have their base there, and it has a lot to say about the way they can operate and fly, and precisely the fact that Onkøe can have its base is of great importance. When I had a dialogue with Torp – just a few months back in time – I had in the discussion with them a wish that they would have opened up, precisely because of the need that Retreat has. We're looking at solutions for Torp as well. We have found good solutions in good cooperation with Stortinget linked to Haugesund, and it is natural that we look at Torp to get a solution for them too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1178	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1185	First of all, a small explanation of vote: SV will support Red's loose proposal, proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox Then it is probably noted by the Secretariat. I stand here with the position on the matter, and it is something strange, and which I ask the representatives of the Progress Party – or representative – to follow: they are the only party, as far as I can see from the setting, which is not in favour of Norway taking a seat in the driver's seat in relation to the electrification of aircraft. How is that possible? They do not take part in a comment to get Norway moving, both in business and in environmental issues, and have Norway take a leading role in the phase-in of electric aircraft. If, in the future, a representative from the Progress Party comes here on the platform and mentions the words «environmental protection» or «climate issue» in positive order – and that is not so often – I am indignant, for now they have in a way fully sidelined that question. Thereafter, «green shift» or anything in that direction shall not be mentioned by the representatives of the Progress Party. I'd rather not hear it during the next year or so, if you don't mean anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1194	The centre party believes that there is a need for the grips that enable the aviation industry to rebuild and subsequently operate in a normal situation. We have come so far that that must be the objective. The arrangements put in place to assist aviation are temporary arrangements, with different expiry dates, and now there is a need to clarify whether these arrangements are being continued and what other measures, if any, are coming. It is part of the current discussion, both in matters to be addressed later, before the summer, and of course in the context of the revised national budget and in the context of the last crisis package – or at least the next crisis package. That's where we in the Center Party will follow up on this. In addition, a request decision said: ‘The decision requests the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of April at the latest, to come back with a proposal to ensure the continued operation of non-governmental airports.’ The Ministry's follow-up to the request decision does not seem to be satisfactory in the Centre Party. Non-state airports are now in danger of being closed, and a better follow-up to the request decision of the Storting is needed, so that non-state airports do not disproportionately suffer from the emergency measures. The councils spoke in a reply about Sandefjord Airport Torp, and it is very important that a consistent policy is behind this. There is also an unfair discrimination between companies that own, and as a tenant, their own facilities, which is a known issue. This also needs to be cleaned up before the holiday, when we are going to deal with the different matters here in Stortinget. The centre party is committed to facilitating the phase-in of electrification in aviation, and – as I said – the short-range network is very well suited to it. I'm very pleased with the answer that the Council of State gave, and that you want to bet on this, but I think it's important, when you now grant money to these so-called green packages, that you manage to get this in with electrification on the short-range network as part of it. There is money that can be used. We've been concerned that the charges are going down, because we want it to be a reasonable and good enough offer for those who use it, but the objective in terms of CO 2 is that it should be an electrification. The company must then be so robust that the next generation of aircraft to be invested in, which will take place in 10 to 15 years, must be electrical. If not, that process will be delayed. Here it's very important that we maybe use the measures that we've been talking about in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1214	It's been a nice debate. And as we have been revealed today, there is a lot of uncertainty about the future of the aviation industry and the flight offer for the people of Norway. This is a debate that we have to take, and which we have to come back to when the situation is more clear. Signals here today from parties on the left to the aviation industry at this difficult time are that you want to increase the fees to make people fly even less. Yes, in Norway we fly a lot – much more than the average – but that is a reason: Norway is far and wide, it is fjords, sea and mountains, distances are large, and travel time is important. When the representative Moxnes, from Red, mentions the business class elite who travels in 1st grade, I assume Red knows that not all tickets are cheap tickets and that you are very often forced to buy full-price tickets. ‘Unnecessary work journeys’ — what really is that? Are the commuters working in the oil industry the construction industry, or are the enterprises located outside the central east? The short-haul network is the input to airports in the largest cities in order to move forward, and they will also be affected by increased charges from the largest cities. Our network is well connected. So I don't share the desire to limit people's mobility by making it more expensive to fly. The planes and aviation bring Norway together, and it is built up to provide opportunities for housing and activity throughout our country. We must not fool ourselves with this. Rather, we need to invest in new technology, non-emission aircraft and increased blending of biofuels to move on and have a good and profitable aviation industry in the future, which serves the population and business throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1225	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1242	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1249	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on the subject. We have briefly discussed the matter and are given a decision this summer. The Ministry’s proposals are an aggregate proposition which is to a large extent legislative changes promoted in the light of past decisions and legislative processes that have gone on for a long time. There are some old disagreements, such as the phase-out of short courses in high schools, which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV oppose, but there are also some new disagreements on the surface, on private kindergartens and private schools. In the regulation of private kindergartens, the Stortinget, through eight different request decisions, has requested a comprehensive amendment to the Kinderhagen Act. It is now promised by three different state councils, and the work has been going on for several years. The government that is now proposing cannot be interpreted as anything but a resignation. We do not receive a comprehensive review as promised and no answer to important questions such as pension grants, requirements for the organisation of kindergartens, reporting obligations to municipalities when selling private kindergartens, etc. That government has now proposed, is a new vague formulation that I fear will open up more profits and profits, and that in no way stops today's practice. Former State Council Sanner said when he received a report on the status of the sector in 2018, that we cannot have that, and described today's legislation as out of date. Now, when we hear the Right in the media in the discussion about this, it is uncertain what both the government and the Right really think about this, and I hope the Right Representative can clarify it in this debate. In the case of private schools, especially so-called profile schools, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are strongly critical of the change in administrative practices currently proposed, which will allow for more extensive recognition of new private and profile schools. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have, at the request of their own Government, promoted a new note shortly before the issue in the Stortinget, without consultation and without mentioning the subject in the legislative proposal. State Council Melby also confirms in her letter of reply to the Stortinget that the comment alone is intended to change administrative practices in relation to the recognition of profile schools. It is shocking, I think, that such a vaguely worded comment, without a pre-worker and without a proposal for a decision in the Stortinget, should be seen as a support from the Storinget to change administrative practices, and we in the opposition parties believe that this is contrary to good administrative practice. We have invited the members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party to draw their attention and propose that the government rather present the proposal in the usual way to the Stortinget. This was rejected. I also ask myself that the trade renewal, which is the reason for this, has come so abruptly to the government parties that they require urgent treatment in the Stortinget. They have been working on this for many years, and they should have had good time to promote this matter in an ordinary way. I take up the proposals that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1264	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1269	This is a proposition that has a broad thematic impact field. It cleans up a lot of things. We have put in place important legislative changes and adjustments that help to make things easier. to operate within the framework of the Law on Secondary Education, the Law on Kindergarten and the Training Act. I'm not going to spend my time here going through all these changes, because very many of them are very uncontroversial and have a broad uprising. But one thing that I think is a little strange is that we've got a debate on the paragraph that's going to capture the possibility that national supervision can do a good job. We just have to change the law so that supervision can do a good job. And it's all agreed, with the exception of SV and strangely enough, the Center Party. That's what's in this proposition. Then you get an article now from the Workers' Party that simply raises doubts about the legal investigation that the Ministry has submitted in this matter, that it really has the intention to do something else. That's what I think we're putting up the debate in a very inexorable way. I might have gone a little further: because there's no doubt that when you get a change now, you clean up what's been the political change of words for quite a long time. We have e.g. has been described in the proposition that when you get the debate about what is a reasonable annual result, everything that is delivered in addition to what is covered in Section 14(a), under the letters (a), (b) and (c), is reasonable. I understand that what you're really doing right now is cleaning up this. So the representative, Tvedt Solberg, can stand here and say that we are now doing this inexorably, that we are helping to soften up, is really just an attempt to create a traditional right-left-axis debate on dividend policy between public and private kindergartens. It's unforgiving. There I expected more from a case rapporteur. I understand that you want to make that impression politically, but that is not at all what is involved in this matter. What would have been more interesting to clarify is whether the Workers' Party has agreed on the SV's line of being opposed to having dividends in the kindergarten sector. I notice that the representative in the social media has called for the same policy in this field as in the post-school sector. It would be interesting to get in place. Another thing I think it's good to mention, when, after all, we're dealing with all these laws here today, is that the law of free school is also being treated. When it was dealt with in 2015, we were very clear that it should be possible to have profile schools. Now we're cleaning up what's in it through our remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1280	This is an aggregate proposition that is largely a legislative amendment promoted in the context of previous large-scale documents and request decisions. It is proposed, inter alia: amendments to the Law on Public Higher Education, that the right to receive a short-term grant is phased out on 1 January 2021. This is a follow-up to a previous budgetary decision with which the Progress Party is very pleased. This is a course that has been aimed to a large extent at older people over 50 years of age, and 35 pst. the participants were in fact 61 years of age or more. This is the most cost-effective group in society, and we in the Progress Party don't think it's a government task to fund these kinds of activities for them. Today, there are also several changes to the Kindergarten Act to help ensure that children have a safe and healthy nursery environment. This includes children and parents’ rights of participation, zero tolerance against infringements, prevention requirements and an activity obligation. National supervision of the financial situation of private kindergartens shall also be established. The Progress Party would like to see this as a national supervision for both quality and economy in both public and private kindergartens, but we hope that this is the first step on the road to follow up the consensus of the government parties and the Progress Party on independent supervision in spring 2018. Supervision should ideally be independent. While it is positive that independent financial supervision should be established, we believe that quality and national standards should also be subject to independent supervision. In this kind of debate where we're talking about private kindergartens, it's mostly about profits and profits. I am concerned that it should be allowed to make money in this country, and that the quality should be the most important measuring tool, not that we should look blindly at who is standing as the owner. But I'm going to leave that debate. I think it is a pity that another element in the debate often disappears: only in the last three years, municipalities have miscalculated grants to private kindergartens for nearly 300 million. kr. Many of these are still involved in complaints about grants in recent years. At dn.no we can now read that the Municipality of Oslo has lost its complaint case against the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, where they have miscalculated 100 million. kr to private kindergartens in recent years. That's 100 million. kr that should have benefited the children. The establishment of national supervision for private kindergartens will result in the development of competence in this field which should also be used for the control and follow-up of the grant basis in each municipality. In this context, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to this effect, and also a proposal asking the government to come back with a proposal for independent supervision that ensures both the quality, financial management and equal treatment of public and private kindergartens, in line with the consensus of the government parties and the Progress Party held in spring 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1297	The representative Roy Steffensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1302	As the setting indicates, this is mainly a follow-up to previous enlargement documents and call-up decisions, and a joint committee joins many of the proposals. The central party had, like the rest of the opposition, a expectation that a holistic case of both financing and regulation of the nursery sector had been brought before the Stortinget this spring. We may understand that the complexity of the matter, together with the covid-19 pandemic, has made the work more time, but we cannot accept that the government is using the situation to handpick sub-elements that she herself sees tending to push forward urgent treatment of in the Storting. When the Center Party agreed to the postponement of the kindergarten themes that the Stortinget has ordered the government to follow up, it was understood that this proposition should be limited to legislative decisions that were time-critical to be adopted before the Stortinget ended the spring session. But that's not the case. Take, for example: the proposal to transfer the financial supervision from local authorities to a national supervisory authority. It is not time-critical to adopt this now and, if necessary, to have a push on it. The centre party is opposed to the creation of a national supervision. We believe that in order for the municipality to be able to carry out its function as a superintendent of children's memory, the municipality must also be able to retain the possibility of financial transparency and of overseeing the municipal authority. That's why we have a suggestion in the setting. Yes, the centre party is concerned about the increased commercialisation of the kindergarten sector, which weakens the shortage, and which weakens the confidence that the community funds are used for the purpose. Now the government will remove the limitation in today's law that the nursery can have a reasonable annual result and change to allow the nursery to have a possible surplus free of charge. We therefore vote against Sections 21, 22 and 23 of this chapter and propose, together with the opposition, to ask the government to submit a new, holistic bill for the regulation of private kindergartens, including when Section 14(a). There are today major challenges that both municipalities and statesmen are unable to interpret today's legal text, and we fear that with this change, there will be even greater uncertainty and even more difficult to supervise. It's not a linguistic change, but a material change that we fear the consequences of. With that, I take up the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1317	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1322	The Kindergarten Act states that government grants and parental benefits are to be paid to children in kindergarten. Nevertheless, we are witnessing today a majority constellation that erodes this further. The Government Parties and the Advance Party believe that private kindergartens should have the surplus free of charge – make the surplus free of charge. At the same time, they delete a wording in today's legislation that says that kindergarten can have a reasonable annual result. It is not possible to interpret this as anything but a legitimation of profit. And it's unclear to me whether this makes it even more difficult to supervise the sector. So the government is forcing us to deal with a change in law that we don't know the consequences of. It's irresponsible by the government. Here we need a thorough investigation, which would give the whole needed to understand the extent of the change in the law and its consequences. Initially, we wanted to return this proposal because it would be best for a comprehensive bill. In addition, municipalities are now deprived of the possibility to supervise their own money — which they have actually granted to private kindergartens. National supervision is established in Moldova, but when this will be operational, it is very difficult to estimate. The government's ambitions for national supervision are, in any case, too puzzled in the face of an increasingly commercial kindergarten sector. So now it's free to make a living in kindergartens in Norway. Furthermore, the Government deprivs the municipalities of the supervisory authority by shifting responsibility for the financial supervision of private kindergartens at national level. SV believes it is good that we get national supervision. The increased commercialisation of an unbridled sector of increasingly large kindergarten owners with complex ownership structures calls for professional supervision. And the law of kindergartens cannot be compared with the law of free school. Fortunately, it is not allowed to make money in school in Norway, which makes the supervision of the school sector much easier. At the same time, the establishment of national supervision does not in any way mean that local authorities should be deprived of the possibility of exercising supervision if they so wish. The income of the private kindergartens comes from the parents and from municipal transfers, so it is a serious violation when the government now deprives Norwegian municipalities of the possibility to exercise supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1337	The government has received a number of reports on the table showing that commercial profit-based companies have earned huge sums in kindergartens for many years. Two years ago, the government announced a comprehensive review of the Children's Court Act. The same press release on the government’s May 2018 pages says: “Now more and more private kindergartens have become part of chains with very high returns.” It also says: “The revenues of the kindergartens are significantly higher than the average for companies listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange.” At that time it might be thought that the government would do something about this problem and make proposals that ensure that the money goes to the best of the children and not to private enrichment – but no, then. Instead, they will determine that profits are to be made free of the owners of kindergartens. This is putting the door wide open for the welfare profiters. It's tailoring a code for the best of commercial owners – not the best of children. Today, in the early days, Gudmundsen from the Right said on the radio that it is important to have profits in an enterprise that is to invest in toys. But kindergartens are already fully funded by the citizens' taxes and parental payments, and that we don't want profits in kindergartens, is that the owners don't spend money on kindergartens, but take the money out of kindergartens. So if Gudmundsen is worried about whether there's enough surplus to pay for toys and appliances in the kindergartens, Gudmundsen should be to seal all the holes where the money runs out in stria from the kindergartens because of Right Kindergarten policy. We have little faith in depriving the municipalities of supervision, as suggested here. We want to have both a strong and good oversight where you are close to the winners, know the actors, follow up on tips and get revealed how people trick and cheat money away from the kids. It's important, and it has to be in addition to having state-centralized supervision, we think. We have a proposal to ensure that the purpose of the law is fulfilled – that all the money should benefit the children. It is ensured by following the formulations of the Law on Free Schools that there is no opening for our tax money, which was to go to the kindergartens, which was to go to the best of the children, instead of building billions of wealth for the few. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1353	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1358	The size shall today consider proposals for amendments to several laws of the Ministry of Knowledge. I want to present the proposals within the Education Act, the National Higher Education Act, the Free School Act and the Kinderhagen Act, while Minister of Education Asheim will talk about the Adult Education Act. In order to create mobility in the labour force at a time of great change in the labour market, access to career guidance is important throughout the country. All county councils have now established such offers to their inhabitants and, in order to ensure that these offers are maintained after the grant has been entered into the framework grant, the government proposes to legislate on the county councils' obligation to make such an offer. Universities are an important and valuable complement to the public school system. The school is characterised by a long-term course in which students live through a school year at boarding school, and as a follow-up to previous budgetary decisions, we now propose that the right to receive a short-term course grant be phased out from 1 January 2021. We also propose that the Kindergarten Act should include a common internal control provision for municipal and private kindergartens. The proposal corresponds to the requirement of the municipal law and takes into account the need for internal control to be adapted to the size, characteristics, activities and risk conditions of the nursery. The government believes that there is a need to introduce new and clearer obligations on what kindergarten should do to ensure that all children have a safe and healthy nursery environment. We propose to legislate that kindergarten should work continuously to promote the health, well-being, play and learning of the children. Furthermore, I propose to legislate that the kindergarten should not accept violations such as: bullying, exclusion, harassment, discrimination and violence, and that those working in kindergarten shall be obliged to intervene in such infringements. I also propose an activity obligation to ensure that kindergarten acts quickly and correctly. Private kindergartens receive about 20 billion annually. SEK in government grants and SEK 4 billion. kr i parental payment. Economic supervision is important to ensure transparency about how private operators use these funds, and to ensure that the money benefits the children. I propose to set up a national supervisory body responsible for overseeing the use of government grants and parental leave in private kindergartens. This will give us a much more specialised professional environment, which can do this important task in a good and effective way. In addition, we propose to clarify the legislation on the requirements for the use of government grants and parental payments, and in the light of the debate that has already taken place, I would like to stress that this change does not lead to any change in practice at all. It is only a linguistic clarification of legislation and will lead to the continuation of the practices that have been carried out. As a municipal kindergarten authority, municipalities have responsibility for, inter alia: approval, financing, guidance and supervision of non-financial activities. I propose to legislate that the municipality treat municipal and private kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner, and I propose that the municipality organise the task it has as a kindergarten authority, separated from the task of the municipality as a kindergarten owner, when it is suitable to maintain the trust of the municipality's impartiality as a kindergarten authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1382	I want to go back to the private kindergartens and the statements of the then knowledge minister Jan Tore Sanner when he was handed over the BDO report on the kindergarten sector. As it has been referred to from the pulpit, there was a press release from the Ministry of Knowledge, where one said that we could not have it, and one described the legislation as out of date. The report showed that there is now more procurement than innovation in the sector, and it pointed to a number of very regrettable developments in the kindergarten sector. Those were statements from a former state council. I would like the current Council of State Melby to say whether she agrees with Mr Sanner's description, and whether she also believes that the legislation that is now is out of date and should be amended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1389	I share the views of the former Minister of Knowledge on this very thing. The kindergarten sector has changed considerably in the last 10–15 years. We've seen a consolidation where many kindergartens have been gathered in large chains. That is an important argument for us, for example: want State supervision, because it is completely impossible for a single municipality to supervise a large chain. We also believe that there are many other parts of the legislation that need an update, because it has seen some unfortunate effects. What we have done as an assessment in ours is that many of the changes proposed, which were put to the hearing, were very much opposed – there was a great deal of disagreement about the facts as well. We therefore believe it is important to spend longer time to ensure that we do not create more unrest in an incredibly important sector. I believe that precisely this spring, where the kindergarten sector has been among the hardest hit, and where we see that private kindergartens have set up and made an amazing effort, would have been an incredibly bad time to promote legislative proposals in a way that does not ensure that everyone has the opportunity, for example. to be able to comment on it in a good and informed debate. I promise we'll get back to it, but it's important that we get to do this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1398	I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that she agrees with Council of State Sanner that this is an out-of-date legislation. But then the question arises: when there is now a new national supervision, they have to oversee out-of-date legislation as their back cover. Now, the Council of State says that a worker is going to come up with a new law, but can the Council of State say something about how long the new financial supervision will have to supervise and manage the sector with what the Council of State itself has described as an out-of-date regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1403	What I think was our ability to act now in ours, was that of course we could also have waited to establish a state oversight, along with the other changes. But the thing was, it was already in the budget for 2020 was set at 10 million. kr to start the creation of this supervision, and the job was already in progress. We believe it is such an important work that there was no reason to hold it back when we were already working. It will take time for the supervision to take over the tasks of the municipalities, and my hope is that we can promote the other changes in the kindergarten law in good time before the supervision is fully operational. I don't think that's going to be a problem either, because it's not like all the changes are necessarily just about the economic part of this. I also believe that it is important in this debate to stress that municipalities retain a very important part of their supervisory activities. Municipalities shall supervise everything that is not economic, all the other parts of it, e.g.: ensuring compliance with the requirements set out by the Kindergarten Act and the Framework Plan for the educational activities. It is still up to the municipalities to supervise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1410	I am pleased with the last state council saying, and that she stresses that municipalities should still have an important job to do here. We fully agree with that. But I find it alarming to hear the answers to when one can expect a new legislation to be in place, especially with the back cover that the Council itself has now mentioned, that there is an out-of-date legislation to operate the new national supervision. So Melby is now the third government council in this government that promises a new, comprehensive regulatory framework. It has been exposed and exposed and exposed. Can she say something more specific about when Stortinget can expect an overall review of the kindergarten law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1417	Of course, it is desirable that we implement changes quickly when everyone agrees that there is a need for updates. However, I believe it is important that we ensure that we do so in a good way, and that we do not implement legislative changes such as: have significant negative unintended effects. The consultation round we had on the changes shows that there was still some confusion about what the changes were proposed would have led to. In exactly the situation we have had in our time, with closed kindergartens and kindergartens that have been under a great pressure and at the same time have done a fantastic job and an amazing effort – I want to boast of the PBL and their membership children's gardens and to the extent of all other kindergartens – I think it would have been very unfortunate if we had somehow pushed through a regulation as quickly as possible. I think it's important that we also listen to the sector, that we listen to the recordings it's made, and then I think we'll get to a good process for whole changes later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1424	That's exactly what the minister said in his last post, we've been concerned about: a more complete nursery law. That's why we asked the government to come back with that. So I don't think it's entirely in keeping with what the minister now says, and what the government has actually done. My question goes to the new supervisory unit that comes to Molde: The government says that they aim to build up national supervision by 20 years' work. However, it will take months, if not years, to put in place operational national supervision, while the municipalities will be deprived of their supervisory rights from 1 January 2021. What will the Minister do about the vacuum that will arise in the kindergarten sector? Should kindergartens be unattended for the period until national supervision is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1431	As it is today, very few of the municipalities have run some special supervision over private kindergartens. About 1 pst. private kindergartens have been subject to supervision. And even though we see that some of the big cities have been prioritizing this business a little bit more in recent years, there has been very little supervision. So setting up state supervision has been about strengthening the supervision of private kindergartens and ensuring that the money actually benefits the children, which is the whole point. In the long term, the objective is to have a State oversight of approximately 30 years' worth of work. That's what we think is necessary in order to be able to conduct a good oversight activity. It will also make it possible to have a much higher level of competence on precisely that of financial supervision than is currently possible for particularly small municipalities. This will be based on the model of the same supervisory authority that you have for fresh oils. And it won't be that the municipalities will be deprived of responsibility for supervision until the state supervision is ready to take over this task. This will happen in parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1439	I believe that what the government is doing today is changing the wording of ‘reasonable annual profit’ to ‘dispose any surplus freely’, making it more difficult to supervise the sector. I wonder if the Minister has thought through how a national supervisory body should be able to oversee a sector that is now running out of its ability to absorb profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1444	I believe that the way in which the representative Fagerås and others have referred to this change is very misleading. This is a form of liberalisation of the legislation, which opens the way for anyone to benefit as much as they like, in reality, simply does not have a root cause. The change that is made here is a linguistic cleanup. The wording that has been used, ‘a reasonable annual result’, is a formulation that came in while Kristin Halvorsen was Minister of Knowledge. At that time, there was no standard of crewing in the kindergartens, and we have got a much tighter code of what parental payment and municipal support can be used for. This means that there is a much less chance of taking out a surplus from kindergarten today than it was when SV ran the kindergarten policy. What is happening now is a linguistic clarification of what has already been practice. There is no increased possibility of taking dividends with the formulations that we are now presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1451	The Children’s Court Act states that the money should benefit the children. And then the contradiction is that you say in the next sentence that the owner can have a reasonable annual result – which is the big difference in principle between the kindergarten law and the free school law, which ensures that all the money actually goes to the best of the students. This is what has been our appeal point for many years, that we need a law that ensures that both the tax money and the parental payment – that every penny and every ear goes to the best of the children, not to build billions of private wealth for the few. So this changes, from the referenced sentence that the owner can, if they meet the requirements of Section 23, dispose of any surplus freely. Does this mean that the Council of State considers any profit, given these requirements, from a kindergarten, reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1464	At least that is how the legislation has been practised today. It has been practised so that if you meet these paragraphs and use the money in this way, it is possible the profit you get then is to be considered reasonable. This has been the practice since the Ministry was run by SV, and this will also be done with new legislation. I believe that it is a completely fair position the representative of Moxnes holds that we do not want kindergartens to be able to benefit – that is a completely fair position. And we would like to make proposals that prohibit the possibility of making dividends. What I think is not fair is to present this change we are now making, as it is now free to take dividends and that there will be completely different possibilities than there has been before to make dividends, because it is not a proper presentation of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1471	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1476	The Minister of Knowledge and Integration has now presented most of the proposals in the Proposition in his area, so I will now talk about the proposals for changing the Adult Education Act. As a result of the proposal to share the Student Association Grant Scheme between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture, the Government is proposing today amendments to the Adult Education Act. We also propose to repeal rules for online schools and to transfer the provisions on the so-called Chapter 4 schools to the law of high school. The study associations are an important contribution to adult education, but I think we can get more out of the study associations than what we are doing today. By sharing the grant scheme between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture, we will be more able to achieve policy objectives of competence and integration, on the one hand, and voluntary and cultural policy objectives, on the other. The proposed changes will make it clear that the arrangements have been split between the two departments. A sharing of the grant scheme requires that a membership organisation cannot be a member of or receive grants from several study associations and that a study association and membership organisations will only be able to receive grants from one of the ministries. I think it is inappropriate to have detailed rules on the different parts of the grant in the law. Then we propose to repeal the rules on online schools in the Adult Education Act. The grant to online schools was terminated in 2015 because learning on digital surfaces must be a natural part of the development work of all universities, universities, vocational schools and other educational institutions. I believe that the law's approval system for online schools is not working today. The recognition is not linked to the quality of the training and is of little use. Several online schools provide accredited, or validated, education through other legislation, such as: the Law on Vocational Education, and therefore does not need this recognition under the Adult Education Act. I also propose to move the rules on Chapter 4 schools to the law of high school. There are now 30 schools approved under the provisions of Chapter 4. Of these, there are 20 Bible schools, a diving school and several schools in the arts, media and music fields. The reason is a desire to clean up the adult education law. I would like to stress that this is only a technical move of the provision, and that this will not affect the rights or obligations of these schools today. Although schools offer valuable services in their fields, training at such schools does not provide formal competence in the sense of the Education Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1496	The feeling of having an influence over your own life brings social and health benefits. Men and highly educated people have more faith in self-control over their lives than other groups. In particular, older people experience less control over their life situation. My question is: does the Council of State see that changing Section 4g of the Adult Education Act could have unfortunate, albeit unintended, consequences, and that it might be that he wants the Stortinge to ensure that we keep the overall objective of the law, «to enable people to influence their own life situation»?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1503	I share very much the description given by the representative Sandberg, but I'm pretty sure this will not have unintended negative consequences. That is why I am proposing it, and I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge agree with that. The reason is that experience is that it is demanding for the study federations to report on these purposes as outlined in section 4 above. That's why we also say that you just have to report for one of the purposes. With regard to this proposal, it is simply also because the Riksrevision has criticised the fact that it is difficult to report on the purposes we have. Although I'm a right-wing politician, it's not like I think everything can be measured, I don't think everything can be reported on. This is a typical purpose that is very individual, that is, whether you have influenced your own life situation. I think that almost all education does, but I don't think it's necessary to have this inside as a specific purpose for adult education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1512	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Then it's also that even though things can't be reported on, the purpose can be very important. Another important lesson is the speed with which the educational institutions have used electronic training. It's quite impressive to see how Education Norway from day one has applied learning on digital surfaces. Do the Councils see the need to amend the legislation so that the study federations can do so in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1524	We're not proposing to do that now. We have had an exception under the Corona situation that has been absolutely necessary, of course, in order to maintain the activity. To be completely honest, it's so that we have to follow this a little bit more closely. We've learned a terrible lot of this period that is now. The reason why we're not proposing to do this now is that when we changed this for online studies earlier, because it's hard to document the number of hours, they said that we should rather give the grant to create offers, that is, activity that way. We're going to have to discuss it thoroughly. I understand very well the question, but I am not prepared to give any concrete answer to it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1533	I thought the minister would be allowed to grow a little. The government proposes to take the supervisory components out of the law and to regulate them in a regulation. This will lead to very unpredictable framework conditions for study associations and their membership organisations. Unpredictability is my judgment. But for the higher education institutions, there is a corresponding regulation. Why are study associations treated differently, and what will the Minister say to the study associations today, who lose this and get a more unpredictable situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1540	My answer to them will be that it will not be more unpredictable. What we're trying to do here is simply to clear up the law, so that we put this into the regulations. But if we're going to change the regulations, we're going to have to consult, like any other way, and they're going to be able to express themselves in a good way before we make any changes. It is simply in order to make it more user-friendly, to have all the rules on grant arrangements in the same regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1545	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1552	In the spring, Neverdal had a school in Meløy municipality in Northern Ireland, which is a free school with entrepreneurship, refused to expand to secondary school, based on the LK20 trade renewal. The party reacted strongly to the use of trade renewal as a tool to prevent the development of the post-secondary schools. Changes in administrative practices have never been the subject of trade renewal. The Free School Act of 2015 is in force. We followed this up with a question to the Council of State, and in the answer the Council of State wrote that she would come back to Stortinget with a clarification on how much professional renewal would mean when it comes to the approval of profile schools. That the Council of State in its letter to the Committee in May writes that she believes that the interpretation made by the renewal of the trade is an unintended consequence, we think is really positive, and we expect the Education Directorate to relate to what is now being determined by the Storting. The Progress Party, in cooperation with the Right and Christian People's Party, has made a comment on this, based on how we believe the innovation should be interpreted. So when the minority in the committee strongly protests the change in administrative practices, it is probably, at best, a misunderstanding. Indeed, our comment states that today's administrative practices are to be maintained, that trade renewal does not allow for new practices. I am very pleased that Vice-Chancellor Kjersti Gjøviken at Neverdal School made us aware of this error, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for clearing up these uncertainties and getting them off the track as quickly as she did. For the most part, if this new administrative practice, after the renewal of the profession, were to be rooted, it would in practice be to say no to all health schools with religious or life views. Even though we know that the minority is generally opposed to freshies, I don't think it was really the idea behind it, when the minority protests as much as they do. Free schools are freedom of choice, and freedom of choice is something we in the Progress Party set high, even in the field of education, and we are always going to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1567	I want to start by giving tribute to the private kindergartens in Norway, because it says a little about the responsible and professional kindergarten sector we have when the National Association of Private Barnehager fully supports being checked in the cards and wants national financial supervision. I hope that when we get national financial supervision, more municipalities will also have time to give priority to monitoring the quality and economy of their own kindergartens, because there are too few municipalities that do today. The impression that private kindergartens are a lucrative industry with super-profit is wrong. The truth is that one of three private kindergartens is running out of money, and they don't get a penny more than the public kindergartens. The problem is rather the fact that there are many private kindergartens that get less than the public, less than they really have to. Today, for example, we could. read that Arbeiderpartit-steerte Oslo has calculated the allowance for children in private kindergartens faults. It could be that they're indebted to 100 million. kr. In return, Oslo has spent many years in financial supervision and has currently revealed quite a few cases of mistakes made by private kindergartens. This is a warning to all of us who are concerned with the best interests of the children, regardless of whether the children go to private or public kindergarten. I am therefore pleased that the grant calculation, and incorrect grant calculation, are something the government has announced that they will continue to work with. So I think it is positive that the case rapporteur, Tvedt Solberg, has unlimited speaking time, because then it might be possible to find out what the Workers' Party really wants with private kindergartens. The representative Tvedt Solberg writes in social media that he wants to regulate kindergartens on the same lines as fresh schools. Paragraphs 6 to 3 of the Free School Act state that fresh schools cannot pay dividends to the owners either when the school is in operation or when the operation is terminated. Then my question is, is that what the Workers' Party wants? Here you can really just answer yes or no. Is that the model you see for financing private kindergartens? Three years ago, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said that the most important thing for the Workers' Party is that the services are good, and that kindergartens meet strict requirements for quality, the number of educators, staffing, framework plan, working and pay conditions and retirement. If those who invest their own money in making good kindergartens are able to do all this and can still have some money left over, that is not the problem. I would even like to say to the representative of Fagerås that I think this is legitimate. Now the tone has turned. Now, the Workers' Party has allowed itself to be tempted by a rhetoric that may not have really been understood that a governing party used by the Workers' Party in the past, with words such as ‘superprofit’ and ‘profit’. It makes me worried about the future of private kindergartens, and I hope that the representative Tvedt Solberg or the representative Henriksen, who comes after me, will perhaps clarify: is there the same regulation around dividends as at the colleges you want to enter the kindergarten sector? I believe that is an important clarification in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1580	The working party supports several of the changes made in the proposition, both on the psychosocial environment of kindergartens and on national supervision. We think it is good to have national supervision that can strengthen the follow-up of, among other things. the largest chains of activity in several municipalities. Some changes are being made in the kindergarten area today. But the most striking thing is what's not here. The size has several times asked the government to provide a comprehensive review of the kindergarten law. It's been in consultation, it's been in demand of the sector, and we've been waiting a long time. When the government then submits a proposal to amend Section 21, which removes the provision for reasonable annual results for kindergartens and changes it to a formulation that kindergartens should be able to dispose of the annual result freely, we think it is quite unfortunate, because then we do not see the changes in the kindergarten sector as a whole. It was said here that it is done to clean up, but when one part of the kindergarten law is taken, one part of the regulation of private kindergartens and concludes when we know that there is much that remains – the Labour Party wants more tightening in far more areas of the kindergarten law – the consequence is not to clean up, as the consequence is more unclear. That is why the Workers' Party is voting against the changes in Sections 21, 22 and 23 – we believe that the regulation of kindergartens must be seen in a complete way. The working party has long been concerned that it is possible to obtain large values from kindergarten, not only through dividends, but also through sales and other means. What we've seen in recent years is that even large, foreign funds are interested in buying up in the Norwegian kindergarten sector. It does not become less attractive to non-resident owners. That's not the signal they get when you change the law that you can dispose of the surplus freely. We have heard stories that large, foreign owners are presented with child care brochures that say why it is a profitable investment of their capital to buy up in the Norwegian nursery sector. Then there should have been some alarm signals, not only in the Stortinget, but also in the Right House. That is why the Workers' Party has called for a comprehensive review of the Kindergarten Act. That is why we have also proposed several changes to clarify and tighten up. It is quite right, the representative Jonas Gahr Støre said three years ago, that the most important thing for the Workers' Party is that kindergartens are good. The parents probably don't care much about whether the nursery is private or public, as long as the kids are doing well, but it's obvious that it's easier to make a good kindergarten when the money goes to the children and not to large value.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1591	The aim of higher education institutions is to promote public education and public education. The purpose of the higher education institutions and the job they do in fulfilling it is something to be proud of. Universities contribute to human growth and development. They've been shown to be viable. They exist all over the country, and they attract students like never before. In recent years, higher education institutions have seen strong growth in the number of applicants. It goes about 20 pst. more students in Norwegian higher education institutions today compared to 10 years ago. The Labour Party sees that higher education institutions can fill many important functions. They give young people a meaningful year of mastering and learning, social and professional development. They renew their belief in themselves and in what is needed to complete secondary education and perhaps higher education. Universities have always taken social responsibility and are good venues for promoting inclusion and countering exclusion. In this way, the National Colleges also have a potential as a flexible and open arena for lifelong learning, we believe in the Workers' Party. We value and will invest in higher education institutions, in education centres, in adult education and informal education, and in equal opportunities for education and competence for all. The rest of the education system also has a lot to learn from the way the higher education institutions teach, and how they work to create an arena for inclusion where everyone can succeed. So to the point: we in the Workers' Party believe that the government should have developed a forward-looking model for financing short courses instead of removing the possibility. We are concerned that the phase-out of short courses will go beyond vulnerable groups, and believe that primary schools should receive grants for short courses aimed at people in a vulnerable position, who have health challenges, disabilities or are out of school and working life. Short courses contribute to the important role of public education in the national higher education institutions. They prevent alienation and create activity. Briefly summarised: Shorter courses are important in order to meet the intentions of the law to promote public education and public education for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1602	I had another few comments on the matter we are dealing with today. The Adult Education Act and the changes we are making in distinguishing the study associations between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture, I think it is also worth raising a little, because there is no doubt that the study associations and the job they can do in the context of just work life relevance and short course and updating are important, and I think the change we are making today will give you a better tool in that area. What I also think it is worth focusing on is the accident unit of the Workers' Party when you ask them a clear and clear question about whether you want to eliminate the possibility of taking dividends in the kindergarten sector. It's actually the way you have the full opportunity to come up with that clarification here today. I don't think the representative Henriksen did it, on the contrary, he raised Gahr Støre's point. In this way, representatives Henriksen and Tvedt Solberg are somewhat opposed to each other in terms of the policy of the Workers' Party in this field. I think it might be neat that you get an explanation here today about what is the position of the Workers' Party. Is it yes or no to dividends? It would have been neat, because there's a point that today we hit the kindergarten sector in a good way. We're going to have a national supervision. I would like to draw the representatives' attention to the fact that in the proposition it is very clear that when the supervision is up and going and you get the laws sanctioned, among other things. adopted here today, a supervisor shall also be established. Although not all the changes in the law are in place, there is no doubt that what we are doing here today are important and absolutely necessary adjustments that will give us a national supervision that can work according to our intention. It is also worth noting that when you look at the latest available figures — now that we have put in place the standard of manning, the standard of education, the framework plans and everything that hits this sector — it is actually, of the 26 billion. kr that private kindergartens received in 2018 through grants and parental payments, only 33,9 million. kr that have been paid in dividends. It's 0.14 pst, and I think that's a pretty important point when you try to make this a very lucrative sector. It was perhaps in the beginning when the red-greens created the law we now have to make the necessary adjustments in. But the way the sector is today, it is perhaps more appropriate to look at how we can even better facilitate that private kindergartens – which run more reasonably, which have more pleasure parents and very satisfied users – can get even better conditions and, in interaction with public kindergartens, contribute to raising quality and content, which is very important for our kids to get a good start on life through a good kindergarten. And I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1613	I just want to use the opportunity to clarify why we're promoting exactly the suggestions we're promoting in kindergarten. It is quite right, as some have pointed out, that the best thing is to get a comprehensive treatment in the Storting of proposals affecting private kindergartens. That's exactly why there was an assessment that we did not want to deal with everything now in this round, because there were many suggestions we needed to go into more detail. At the same time, there were two of the proposals that emerged as relatively uncontroversial through the consultation, among others. removing the wording ‘reasonable annual result’. Of more than 70 hearings, only 3 were opposed to making that change, i.e. that this was a proposal that had a very broad upturn, it was perceived as very little controversial, and it is not really a change that leads to a change in practice, just a clarification of the applicable law. That was the reason why we promoted it, and also because we promoted it by state supervision. Since it was so uncontroversial, and since there is such a broad dissension that we need to tighten up the supervisory activity, we thought it was right to promote it now, even though we do not have the rest of the proposals ready. So I think it would be right to see the other changes together, and that's what we're also aiming to promote in that way, so that the Stortinge gets a good deal of consideration of the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1620	I think it is a good description that our criticism of the changes in the regulation of private kindergartens is about what the government does not. You now swap an unclear paragraph, which the Council itself agrees to is part of an out-of-date legislation, with something else that is unclear. That is our criticism, and the reason why we reject this is that we are making changes that are not able to stop the practice that is today, which we think is unfortunate. And as it turned out in the change of lines, I think it is very unfortunate that we are now going to set up a new national supervision system that is to be supervised by an out-of-date legislation that the state council and government believe has a lot of loopholes and weaknesses, without doing anything about it and without coming up with anything more concrete than once again exposing the whole review of the law on kindergarten. There is no clarification as to when one can expect this review from the government, just other excuses that it is still going to be delayed. And when you hear this discussion, the biggest change here is the big turnaround operation that has obviously been in the Right -- it's a huge turnaround operation. In 2018, the current Minister of Knowledge Sanner was concerned about developments. He got a professional, thorough report and said that now one has to clean up, the code is out of date, this is not good enough. I would like to join in decorating many of the private kindergartens in Norway, which I have no problem with at all. The working party is also concerned that the money should be used to ensure that the kindergartens are good, and that is the most important thing. But we now see an out-of-date legislation, which has too many loopholes, as these reports have shown. We politicians have to do a job to clean up that code. Listening to the Right Representatives here today, it seems that the government has completely abdicated in that ambition, and that the Right now does not agree with the statements made by former Minister of Knowledge Sanner, that he was concerned and that he will clean up. The right now signals that you should continue as before and not make changes. I'm sorry about that. So both the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and the representative Kent Gudmundsen call for the Workers' Party to be clear. I have been in so many debates with the two that I know that nothing I am now saying will make the representatives happy. If you are willing to listen, there is nothing in the Labour Party's position that has changed from previous debates. We are clear that strict legislation is needed to ensure that the money goes to better kindergartens, to kindergartens, and I think it is a pity that the Right has also left that ambition and is more concerned that the money can go to benefits and profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1630	I was encouraged to say what I would have been satisfied with. I would be very pleased if Tvedt Solberg had answered me very specifically on a very specific question. So if he wants to adopt the law, does he want to ban dividends, that is, that owners are not supposed to be able to make dividends, whether you run the school or you quit the school? What is the same thing he wants for private kindergartens? That's actually a very concrete question. It's yes or no. If what you want, you're in favour of a dividend ban. It is believed that even if you meet absolutely all other quality requirements, you cannot legitimately take any benefit from the business in which you invest your own money. It had been a clear response from the Workers' Party. That's not what we get here today. Once again, we get a wretched answer where, on the one hand, the government criticises for having had hearings and many recordings and should have been clear as to what one wants and made major changes, while the Workers' Party, which is in opposition, does not have a single answer as to what kind of tightening they want to address what hearing opinions they support. That's what's a little paradox here. I think Council Melby answered very well for why we are now waiting for any major changes, and why the change that is now proposed, initially is really just a clarification and a clarification of what has been practice over time. So the Workers' Party might think that you need tightening, but once again, what are the tightenings that you want? Do you want to copy the law? Then you have to be able to answer yes or no to it, and then I will promise the representative Tvedt Solberg that then there will be debates with both Gudmundsen and me much easier in the future, because then we have something to debate from.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1641	I don't know if I'm going to bet 50, 100 or 500 kroner on it, but I'm pretty sure that representative Tybring-Gjedde finally said not to vote. We're going to have the exact same debate again, no matter what the Labour Party says, because this is the rhetorical exercise of the Right in all debates on private kindergartens. First, I just want to say that private kindergartens are an important part of the nursery service in Norway. I don't have a problem saying that. We also have good dialogue with, for example: Private Barnhager National Federation. We have seen the challenges very many small, single ideal kindergartens have been in, and have been busy solving them as well. So it says that private kindergartens are an important part of the kindergarten offer in Norway today, is not a problem for us. The right rhetorical exercise is to ask for answers to things they can already answer, and to say that the Labour Party has no proposals – when we have been able to prove that many proposals have been made. The Workers' Party is the party at Stortinget that has had the most suggestions regarding private kindergartens, dividends and regulation. The right-hand side is not going to be satisfied with the answer anyway. But we can look at what the Workers' Party has proposed. The Workers' Party has not proposed a total dividend ban from private kindergartens. We have said it must be possible to have an annual profit so that you can build up equity, have capital for investments, even in private kindergartens, for example. In one year or two, that's a little ahead of time. The proposed Workers' Party, however, is a wide range of changes in order to tighten up the legislation. We have proposed tightening up the wording on a reasonable annual result, which is currently far too unclear, giving municipalities, county councillors and supervisory authorities major regulatory and supervisory challenges. We have proposed a comprehensive review of the funding system for private kindergartens. The government has refused it again and again. We have proposed to prevent buying-in funds because we are concerned that the Norwegian nursery sector is becoming a speculation object for international owners. We have proposed, and we have had an impact in Stortinget – together with the Christian People's Party, before they joined the government – to put in place a legal distinction between ideal and commercial kindergartens, precisely because we want to be able to regulate ideal and commercial kindergartens differently, and because we are concerned with the situation of the ideal kindergartens in Norway. The government hasn't delivered that. And we're concerned with sealing dirtholes, tightening up unacceptable values, while prioritizing the small and ideal kindergartens. The biggest threat to small, ideal kindergartens in the last seven years has been the current government — the last by introducing a standard of living for which they refuse to pay. The mine pot, i.e. the representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan got in place of funds for the crew standard, was too small, and now the government has started cutting it again. It says PBL, and that says the ideal kindergartens are the biggest threat to the operation of small, ideal kindergartens. It can be combined to tighten up the legislation and to be concerned with, for example: small and ideal kindergartens. It hasn't been the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1658	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1663	Again, the Working Party rides two horses. They say they're busy with private kindergartens, but they deliver alternative government budgets where they cut the subsidy to just private kindergartens. It's said that it's possible to have some profit, but then other vice-chairmen of the Education Committee and the fractional leader of the Workers' Party, Tvedt Solberg, say that you really want it as in the Law on Secondary Education. So you ride two horses in almost every question. That's the problem here. It is extremely difficult to know what is the Labour Party's policy, because it is completely dependent on who you hear from. I don't think so. Should anyone have been up and settled this situation, it is the spokesman for the Workers' Party for this field, Tvedt Solberg, who is also the case rapporteur. I would like to hear from him whether you agree that § 6-3 of the Law on Secondary Education applies also to the Kinderhagen Act, had the Workers' Party decided, or if you think, as party leader Gahr Støre, that it should be possible to have dividends – that is what should be the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1670	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1675	I think I won my own bet from instead. Even if the Right gets an answer, they think it's unclear and that the Workers' Party rides two horses. It has nothing to say what I, Torstein Tvedt Solberg or other representatives of the Workers' Party in this room stand and say from this pulpit. I gave a clear answer instead of what we have and have not suggested. I even said that we thought there must be some conditions on which to have an annual result in private kindergartens. I don't know how the Right People use to interpret such posts or written texts, but they obviously delete in the practice of text understanding. Otherwise, there will be no two horses riding in terms of funding. With our budget statement in the last three years, the ideal kindergartens would get more money than with the government's plans, because we're actually spending enough money on enough adults in the kindergartens through the recruitment norm, while the government cuts and leaves them alone with the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1682	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. I don't think I need one minute once, I do. I just end with a specific question to the representative Tvedt Solberg. If we need a strict and clear regulation for private kindergartens, as we have for private schools – as the representative Tvedt Solberg wrote on Facebook last night – my question is: Should the law of free school § 6-3 also apply to private kindergartens? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1691	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1708	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to six lines of response will be given following contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1715	As rapporteur of the case, I would like to thank the proposers for an important proposal on their own criminal provisions in cases where employers encourage, press or influence employees to work for the company free of charge while the employees receive daily allowance during the leave. I would also like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and rapid examination of the matter. The roof also goes to Stortinget's support apparatus around us. Because of the covid-19 restrictions, the committee has only asked for written recordings, and there was one recording, from Legal Counselling for Women. They supported the proposal, but asked that cases where employers deliberately mislead employees also had to be covered. They called for a statutory obligation for the employer to keep up to date on the legislation and to ensure that employees are properly informed about their rights and obligations. Furthermore, their experience was that newly-trained and non-resident workers were particularly vulnerable to exploitation or fraud. It is largely in line with what the supervisory authorities also refer to in their reports. The Council of State commented on the proposal in a letter dated 27 May. He refers there to ongoing work on specific criminal liability for so-called pay theft, where the employee’s holiday pay is used in regular operation, and that that work will also include an assessment of clearer legal provisions in the event of abuse of the leavement scheme. An overall committee emphasises the unacceptable fact that employers cheat on social security benefits by permitting employees and unfairly including the allowance as part of, or perhaps whole, the pay of employees, who thus continue to work in the company even if they are on leave. The Committee points out that this may even be part of organised labour-life crime. The Committee considers that it is particularly reprehensible to abuse the crisis mechanisms to remedy the effects of the covid-19 pandemic on severely affected individuals and businesses. A welfare country according to the Norwegian model is based on a high level of trust between citizens and authorities. Abuse of social security schemes contributes to undermining that trust. However, the Committee shall be divided into a majority and a minority. The minority believes that the intentions of the proposers have been respected and is in favour of rejection and will give reasons for this. The majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be adopted as proposed. In addition, the majority would like the government to discuss with the social partners how best to ensure that employers and employees are properly informed about the rights and obligations under the permit, as JURK had in mind. The Labour Party belongs to the majority in the case. I come back to our view of the matter in a later article, but I am already addressing the minority proposals we have in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1732	Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1737	Thank you to the rapporteur and to the proposers. A serious and decent working life is a prerequisite for profitable businesses, secure jobs and the financing of our common well-being. User-based and labour-life crime undermines the opportunities of individual and serious enterprises, and thus also the welfare base of Norway. For this reason, efforts to combat crime at work have been stepped up under this government, including the United Kingdom. stricter penalties and higher fines for offenders. And in order to ensure vulnerable foreign workers, several service centres have also been established where information on their rights and obligations is made available in several languages. Although it is a personal responsibility not to commit criminal acts, there is no doubt that workers may be pressured into committing crimes through social security abuse. What the proposers have to say is that workers in an asymmetric power position are totally unacceptable if an employer tries to trick or push workers into committing crimes. The right fully agrees with the rapporteurs that this has to be tackled hard. However, as far as the proposal itself is concerned, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs already assesses more clearly the legal framework for making employers responsible for abuses of, among other things. the permitting mechanism. In addition, the government is assessing increased penalties for combating labour-related crime. The government has also started work to avoid theft of wages and salaries in connection with holiday pay. In other words, we support the intention, but reject the proposal, as we believe it has been taken care of by the government. There is also no room of praise today. Today’s legislation covers the case for which the proposal calls for new criminal provisions. The provisions of the Criminal Code on fraud include both social security abuse related to the employee and any contributors to social security abuse. The provisions of the Criminal Code relating, inter alia, to: coercion and trafficking in human beings may also be used. In order to further strengthen the work against trafficking in human beings and unprofessional actors, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party propose that the government should consider an alert obligation for the Labour Inspectorate in case of suspicion of trafficking in human beings or labour crime, for example: from Nav when workers apply for daily allowances and request a derogation from waiting conditions on that basis. Of course, workers who are at risk of trafficking in human beings must be guaranteed the right to daily allowances, but at the same time we must pursue and strike down on the backers of just trafficking in human beings or the crime of working life. Therefore, an alert obligation for the Labour Inspectorate should be considered, where such obligation should lie, in order to ensure effective and early warning to the relevant authorities. This proposal has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1752	The representative then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1757	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good speech and thank you to the author of the proposal for raising this important debate. This is a matter in which I would like to believe that no one disagrees with the content and meaning of the case, and I and the Progress Party believe – as is probably the rest in here – that it is totally unacceptable to press on the part of people who have been sent out to commit crimes by working for the company without registering it, at the same time as receiving a daily allowance. First, however, there is an investigation of criminal liability for so-called pay theft, and there is also an assessment of clearer legal frameworks for the accountability of employers in the misuse of the permit regime, and it would be natural to consider a general increase in the penalty framework for criminality at work. There is no doubt that those who use a national state of emergency to avail themselves of outsourced labour, perhaps even under pressure, and thus pressure someone to commit crime, while shifting financial responsibility to taxpayers, must be held responsible for it. And then, at the time we were in government, the Progress Party has set up no less than seven centres against the crime of working life and has imposed stricter penalties for those who break the law. Then we also have to remind ourselves that today's legislation covers what the proposal is asking for. We have both the penal laws §§ 251 and 252, which regulate forced labour, the penal laws §330 and 331, which regulate cases of extortion, and the penal laws §371 and 372, which regulate cases of fraud and situations where the employer misleads the employee with the employment environment Act Chapter 14, which regulates the employer's obligation to pay wages at work, because there is no work, nor should one be allowed to leave. And we have Chapter 25 of the People's Security Act, which includes: obliges employers to provide appropriate information to Nav. So we believe that this is taken care of in today's law already. I am sure that we have the legal basis enough to settle the cases where the employer encourages, presses or affects employees to commit crimes and makes an improper contribution to taxpayers' money, because that should not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1772	The welfare state shall provide security to people who do not have the opportunity to live on their income and work — it is the welfare systems. There has been a continuous debate, discussion and political dispute about them, and it is important to ensure them and develop them in a good way. The centre party is systematically working to avoid social security abuse, i.e. jux and crime. We have an alert look to tighten up, clarify and improve the arrangements. In the Centre Party, we are systematically working for greater financial security for people with no or partial working capacity. The issue we are dealing with today, on which there is agreement, is the day-to-day allowance and the regulatory framework for leave. What we agree on is that it is primarily newly-trained and non-resident workers who run a particularly high risk of being exploited or tricked by the employer. That is what is highest on the agenda. It is a unanimous committee that says that it is unacceptable and a clear breach of the law of leave to permit employees, but nevertheless requires them to work. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. What's central to the Center Party is that we have to clarify this in a simple way. We very much agree with what is being said about the five social values that need to be protected. It is very demanding at a time when a short-term, economically motivated business culture and a labour market are characterised by a widespread use of non-resident guest workers who do not have a residence address in Norway, and many staff in employment agencies, making it even more demanding. In the setting we write, in paragraph No. 1, that we have to have one «clear legislation, which both managers, employees, self-employed and purchasers of goods and services are aware of. Therefore, the rules of the game must be easily understandable and widely known.’ I can't get to stress it well enough. Furthermore, point No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘Public oversight and control bodies must have an organisation closely linked to municipalities and counties so that they can interact with the elected decision-making body. Elections shall have a comprehensive overview of the development of society in their geographical area and, together with professionals in their administration, will provide wise advice on the prioritisation of work’ — to supervisory and supervisory bodies subject to the State. For the purposes of point (b), the following definitions shall ‘Public oversight and control must be greatly adjusted by staffing with a competent professional environment which understands and is able to carry out the task. These bodies need to carry out far more risk-based inspections during visits to businesses and workplaces. There is a need to increase the risk of occupational crime.» That's the nucleus of this. Finally, I would like to say that the Central Party recommends the suspension and then supports the proposal to strengthen criminal sanctions and improve information for both employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1805	The reason for this proposal for a representative was simply the increase in the turbulence reported by the Joint Confederation when it comes to social security abuse initiated by employers. We have known for a long time about and have been concerned that people can be pressured from employers to work even if they get a daily allowance. For a long time, this has been part of the whole picture of the rather extensive 'work-life crime'. In the last few months, as a result of the corona epidemic, access to permits has been easier. It has been right for the vast majority of companies and added, but at the same time, with these quite big changes in cash, the possibility of misusing the permitting rules was, if not lemped, at least there has been a lot of talk in the media about employers who have asked their employees to go to work for the company, with daily pay as a salary. In addition to this, I initially mentioned that we have received clear concerns from the Joint Confederation about this, and we believe that it must be taken seriously by the government. I'm glad they seem to be doing it. The government party claims to have extensive processes running around this particular theme. I look forward to seeing the result within as short a time as possible. It is natural to be impatient to frame this kind of social security abuse. I don't think there's any reason to believe that this is a little less fraud than other social security abuse, which, in my opinion, is being pulled out as more than it actually is, and which is being severely reduced. It's a shame that the minority proposals in this case don't get multiples – especially that the Progress Party, which is otherwise very concerned with law and order, doesn't listen to the proposals. I hope, however, that this representative proposal has given further impetus to the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1816	Thank you to the spokesperson, and thank you to the proposers. During the current pandemic, industry has been introducing various support schemes. This is mainly due to the financial coverage of those who have been on leave for much of the employer's period. Such incentives, which have been contributed as a contribution to the non-loss of jobs, may tempt some employers to recommend or force employees to transfer to public services even if they have been added to work. Norwegian employment is based on confidence, and it is important to control and enforce offences of work crime in general, and under such specific support schemes in particular. The government is already working on the dispensation of specific criminal liability for so-called paylifts, where the interpretation of statutory codes for this type of crime is assessed. In addition, the government is planning a hearing on proposals to increase the penalties for work crime. The Nav control has received a significant amount of tips associated with cheating with permitting and daily money. The Christian People's Party is very serious about the fact that some people use the state of national exception to gain unjust profit. It is important to give priority to the detection and sanctioning of this type of crime, even if we have to think that the vast majority of people in the labour market are honest and comply with current legislation. The effort to control has thus been strongly stepped up, and seven centres have been created against work crime. Several service centres provide foreign employees with information on their rights and obligations and make information available in several languages. There is also a continuous effort to improve the sharing of information between etathans. This will make it easier for e.g. Forced to report to the Labour Inspectorate in case of suspicion of social security fraud. The Christian People's Party is opposed to the proposal for an alert obligation to the Labour Inspectorate in the event of suspicion of trafficking in human beings or the crime of working life. It is natural that the alert is added to Nav, not to the employee. Nav will be well aware of the legislation to carry a warning obligation. Such sharing of information will improve the effectiveness of control and control of the Labour Inspectorate will also be able to act as a prevention tool. In the case of possible punishment, both workers and employers could be punished by the criminal offences of fraud. Penalty for gross fraud is imprisonment up to six years. Penalties for trafficking in human beings can also be used. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will continue to press for the control and sanctioning of social security fraud, along with the fight against labour-life crime in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1835	As several have mentioned, Norwegian employment is characterised by trust and serious enterprises. Nevertheless, it is necessary to take those who break the legislation, and it is important to maintain trust, for example. by reducing the space for action of unprofessional or purely criminal actors. In the cold water of the covid-19 pandemic, claims have been made that several employers have exploited the placement institute by allowing their employees to work without pay while they have received a daily allowance. It's not allowed – it's that simple. The fact that employers use workers to do work without following up on their pay and pay obligations can be called pay theft. Theft of wages and salaries, which is a concept, has increased attention in recent times. It is not necessarily a clear and well-known concept already; at least it is not a clear legal concept. There may be everything from unpaid pay, underpaid pay, non-pension payments, etc. to payback, where the employee is properly paid, but is forced to pay back part of the salary to the employer. A situation in which employers encourage, press or influence employees who are on leave to commit crimes and to work for the company without paying wages at the same time as receiving a daily allowance can also be seen as a side of pay theft. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is now investigating the introduction of specific criminal liability for so-called pay theft. In this context, we also assess whether there is a need for clearer legal frameworks in order to be able to make the employer responsible for the misuse of the permit scheme. In addition, the need for generally increased penalties to combat labour-life crime is assessed. We're going to send out a proposal on these things at general consultation just during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1852	Now the council answered the first question I had been going to ask, about when there was a matter for Stortinget. Then I can instead ask another question: When we discussed the matter that victims of human trafficking were to drop the quarantine in cash, the Council of State said that the desire of the Progress Party to demand notification and warning would mean a tightening of the requirement in today's rules to the detriment of those who had been affected. Now the government parties are promoting a proposal to assess just such intensification. Does the Council agree that it is in the best interests of such vulnerable workers, when he obviously did not agree with it just a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1859	I agree, of course, that the government on its own initiative does in this matter, is sensible and smart and correct. Then I have to admit that I do not remember all the details of a matter that was dealt with here two or three weeks ago or more – as far as I remember, it was probably a slightly different matter – but that at least the main purpose of the proposal could be achieved within today's legislation by giving clear notice to Nav about how it should be enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1864	I guess I didn't get a very precise answer to that question, but I might not have expected that either. In labour-criminal issues, it is constantly repeated that ‘we all agree on’ and that ‘there is no disagreement’, etc. I could frame at least five action plans that we have voted down here in Stortinget, on just increasing efforts to combat labour-life crime. Then I would like to link a question to the theme of the one proposal by the government parties, namely a warning obligation between public authorities when it is suspected of working life crime. There, the Stoltenberg II government started legal work already between 2009 and 2013, and I wonder why that work has not been followed up and completed a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1871	The first question that could be asked is why it was not completed in the period 2009–2013, which is four years. But that's how it's been a long case, and it's taken a long time – if you're talking about general information exchange between different public agencies related to work-life crime. There are probably different reasons why this goes as far back as the middle of the last government period, but now a new legislation has been announced from the Ministry of Justice, which is the department responsible for this. At the meeting with the parties on work crime that was now at the end of May, it was announced that this is if not the same around the corner, so at least close to here. Some obstacles make it harder than it should be to share information to take unprofessional and criminal actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1882	I thank you for the answer; it's nice that this is coming. I have a final question on collective redress, which is a measure on the part of the trade union movement that will facilitate the situation of vulnerable workers and make it easier to condemn the crime of working life. Last week the Stortinget reintroduced collective legal proceedings, but unfortunately it lasted only a few minutes, because there was an error at the wetting plant. How long was Adam in Paradise? The Council of State is known for its ideological approach to various issues. The only argument that has been put forward against collective redress is in principle. Does the Council of State still believe, when he sees the warnings from all the supervisory authorities, that it is important to put principles ahead of powerful measures against labour-life crime, as collective redress is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1891	Good measures against crime at work also safeguard fundamental legal and data protection and ensure that they form part of the consideration. We had collective redress for a period of time, and it turned out that although it was referred to as a very powerful and important instrument, there was a lot of concern about it. It was very little used, and when it was out at the hearing that time, there were also clear warnings from, among other things. Ministry of Justice. So the Red-Green government's own Red-Green-Controlled Justice Department warned against it at the public hearing. That means that I think we have other powerful tools and instruments that are just as good and that we should use instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1898	Drug abuse must be combated in many ways. The most important thing is that there is a clear code that is widely known, so that everyone – from the public to employers and employees – is aware of the rules of the game. However, there is also a need for public oversight and control bodies. They're state-owned, and they're part of a whole. As I said in my introduction, it is important that the state organisation is closely linked to municipalities and counties, so that it can interact with elected decision-making bodies. In fact, elected representatives will have a comprehensive overview of social development, and if this interaction is achieved, the public oversight and control authority and municipal efforts will become more effective. Does the Council of State agree that a greater effort must be made to coordinate State and municipal activities in order to have a greater impact on the efforts made?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1907	It's a little bit about what's in the question. If it's making unclear guidelines for the public agencies and the state businesses we have, I don't think that's a good idea. I think it's a very good idea that they're state-owned. I also believe that it would be very clumsy if you were to get more elected bodies to deal with, etc. If there is a general input or a general point that the state supervisory bodies – the Labour Inspectorate or Nav, when they are in charge, or the a-krim centres – have to have good contact with the municipality, I fully agree. If the municipalities in their fields contribute, for example: own approaches to labour-life crime, not least to ensure that their own purchases contribute to seriousity, are only positive, and there is a great deal to be gained from cooperation and dialogue on those issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1914	What was my point was that the state organisation today is so far from the political and administrative management of the municipalities that it is not the interaction that is needed here. If they had been organized more locally, the government agencies would have had a greater advantage of that interaction than what we have today. I respect that the Council of State has no change going on there. It's going the opposite way in general. My next question is related to the manning to carry out the check. It must be true that there is a real risk of being taken, i.e. that the control bodies which are, to a greater extent, carrying out business visits carry out visits to the workplace in order to increase the risk of occupational crime. Does the Council agree with greater emphasis on practical visits based on an ex-ante assessment of where the risk of such crime is greatest?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1924	I also want the state businesses to be out, but I think that they need to do what is needed first and foremost to take the greatest possible criminal actors in the world of work. It is not automatic that you can sit down and count the number of physical inspections and that it gives the best results. There is something that remains in very many of the debates we have had on this, including the short time I have been a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: it is not just that the criminal actors in Norwegian working life today do not guarantee their style classes – they may not – there are often networks that require you to spend time with several agencies doing a thorough investigation, to call it that. You have to roll up not only single companies, but also several actors who are connected, and where there are backers. This means that there is no automatic link between the number of out-of-office visits and the fight against crime at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1929	What happens, according to the reports we get, is that the floors are less out. There'll be more and more paper surveillance. It is quite obvious that there must be a combination of supervision related to documents and supervision related to what is actually happening at work. According to the messages we get in, the sum of what's happening is that the risk of getting caught is too small. This is a result of a policy that has been going on for many years – I'm sure 20 years – where one has withdrawn from the workplace. My question is: will the Council of State inspire and facilitate this, for example: Labour inspectorate is more out of the workplace? There has to be a real risk, because we know that it's being cut and cheated more when the risk is smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1936	If we look at the numbers of work-life crime, these numbers are going in the right direction: what goes up, goes up, and what goes down, goes down. Among other things, there are more people who believe there is a greater risk of being discovered if you commit work-life crime. For me, it's a clue that the way we're working now, transversally, you're working on taking back people, and that you also allow yourself to work on some things over time, works and is successful, and that we should keep doing it. Then I believe that, of course, the inspections – the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate or others – should be out. It's also important, but it's not like you're not supervising if you do the necessary pre- or post-work in the office, but just do it at the moment you're out. Both are required. I think that's where the representative Lundtigen and I have a slightly different approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1943	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1950	I'm just going to take what I didn't get into, and justify the Workers' Party's proposal in the case. On April 7, we discussed Prop. 72 L for 2019-2020, on covid-19 measures in public security. The Workers' Party and SV took up disturbing information from Fair Play Bygg Oslo, Uropatroljen and the Labour Inspectorate. They indicated that unprofessional employers abused the temporary changes. We proposed that there should be a strong response to such cynical exploitation of Community funds, with reinforced control and increased penalties, fines and the withdrawal of unlawful profits, but was downgraded. Today, the same will happen with a similar proposal from the SV supported by the Workers' Party. It is being investigated, the Council of State answers, and that is a very small step forward. On 23 April, we discussed proposals from the Workers' Party to exempt victims of trafficking in human beings for 12 weeks in entitlement to daily allowances. It was surprisingly, but happily adopted. The Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, would not require notification, precisely in order to protect vulnerable workers from represals from criminal employers. It surprises us that that concern has now disappeared that dog for the sun, just a few weeks after. We also see that reporting obligations between public authorities are important in the fight against a-crime. What surprises me is that it has not been introduced too far. Such a statutory obligation to notify was a work that was started by the Stoltenberg government in the period 2009–2013. We therefore promote our own proposal that this should now be completed, but do not help to make vulnerable workers even more vulnerable, as we can risk with proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. Last Tuesday, Heidi Nordby Lunde boasted of the government's enormous bet against a-krim, and it was repeated here today. The Council of State followed up last week with all indicators showing that labour-life crime is falling. At the same time, both the Labour Inspectorate, the Nav, the police and the tax department warn against a record number of tips if possible cheating. The threat assessment by Ecocrime in 2020 says that organised criminals are increasingly infiltrating legal business and that the distinctions between organised crime, economic crime and labour crime are being cleared up. The Labour Party believes that the fight against labour crime must be stepped up. We have consistently believed that, ever since we in the government launched the first action plan on social dumping in the revised national budget in 2006. We got two more before Erna Solberg took over. The Right Party and the Advance Party voted against all. In the opposition, we have promoted number four and five, but have been downgraded. That's the same thing with a number of individual proposals, except for some, where the Christian People's Party, before they went to government, forced the Solberg government to take hold. So to collective law: a little used and a lot of trouble, said the Council of State, but it was probably just enough to work for three weeks. The working party believes that a new attempt is well worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1965	There does not necessarily have to be a contradiction in the fact that we have seen a happy development after an intensified fight against labour crime, after this government set up seven centres against just work-life crime. These have started their job, and it's starting to produce results. We saw in the joint annual report for the cooperation sessions' efforts to combat the crime of working life for 2019 not only a stagnation, but signs that it was falling. We have also noticed the alarming feedback that has been received from the authorities, such as, among other things. It shows that after the launch of strong and targeted measures after covid-19, the risk of increased work-life crime has been recorded, but I think that there is some unnecessary conflict here. It is quite right, as the representative of Christoffersen points out, that, in the context of the examination of the matter, where the committee agreed that victims of the crime of working life should of course be exempt from the waiting period to obtain daily allowances, we agreed that it was an intensification if the employee himself had to take this to court. The proposal we are making today is that the ministry should assess where the obligation of warning should be. As I said in my post, it would be natural that it is Nav who from one department to another alerts the Labour Inspectorate on this, if they grant daily allowances on the basis of the removal of the exemption provisions for the granting of daily allowances. We are pleased that the Workers' Party was inspired by the proposal at the time and the proposal that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted in connection with this matter. I would encourage the Department to be inspired by the Workers' Party's proposals when they look at where that duty is to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1976	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e1993	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2000	The proposal for a representative to be discussed here now proposes to ensure that all workers have the right to charge care allowance as single hours or half days, with reasons for shorter opening hours in kindergarten and SFO. It is also proposed to ask the government to increase the temporary allowance with care days. Earlier in our year, Stortinget adopted a doubling of the care allowance scheme. It was absolutely necessary in the situation in which we stood. Many families were affected by closed kindergartens and closed schools. However, it has been possible for parents to spend care money on closed kindergartens and closed schools and on reduced opening hours now that one has reopened. In the last few months, we've witnessed that the situation has changed rapidly, and it's done so again. The anti-infectious measures have been facilitated and there is reason to expect that more people can return to more normal opening hours. However, the need to charge care money as a single hour is not only linked to the need under the covid-19 pandemic. The Council of State itself writes in the letter of reply to the Committee that he does not recommend a decision in the wording proposed by the representatives, but he believes that there may be a change in the legal regulation in this area. In this case, the Committee received one written report. Four different proposals have been made in the vote. I will now proceed to explain the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV. The working party supports the proposers in that several should have the possibility of withdrawing care allowance as individual hours. And where it's possible to accommodate it, it's unreasonable to have to spend an entire day, if you're just gone a shorter period of time. The Workers' Party and SV have therefore made proposals to clarify this precisely in the legislation, so that care can be decided locally, if it is to be taken as a single hour, but that it is to be discussed with trustees. We believe that this is necessary in order to ensure local variation. It is worth noting that the Council itself points to such a solution in its reply letter to the committee. However, it does not seem that his own party supports the Workers' Party and SV's proposals here in the Chamber today. The Labour Party is pleased that there has been a clarification on care allowance for the rest of the year. With this, I take up the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV, and at the same time I announce that the Workers' Party will vote subsidiaryly for the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party's proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2021	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2026	As a result of the covid-19 pandemic surveillance measures, a temporary regulation was introduced to allow care allowances for closed kindergartens and schools, not only in the case of the child’s disease, to which care allowances are intended. Several kindergartens and SFOs still have limited opening hours after opening. There is a part that does not get the full-time job when SFO and kindergarten services are reduced. Most people solve this through agreements with employers, but not everyone has a profession or family situation that allows for this type of flexibility. I fully agree that it is unreasonable to spend an entire day of care on having to go, for example. one to two hours earlier from work to pick up a child before the nursery or SFO closes. Most employers provide this flexibility without using full days of care or approving single days, half days or collecting care leave and reporting them as whole days of care. As measures for the protection of children’s gardens and schools are now reduced, the basis for the temporary care allowance scheme will also gradually lapse due to opening hours. Therefore, given where we are now and where we are expected to be in a short time, the Right proposal does not support it as it stands. On the other hand, we want to look at the ordinary rules on care allowance. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party consider it important to recognise that, in some situations or parts of working life, there may be less flexibility in facilitating flexibility in relation to sick children. Therefore, those batches propose that the government consider introducing care allowances down to 50 pst. for parents who must be away from work part of the day. I am also grateful for the subsidiary support of the Labour Party for this proposal. The suggestion has been included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2037	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2042	Due to infectious disease prevention measures, many kindergartens and SFOs have now limited opening hours. These opening hours vary from municipality to municipality and from kindergarten to kindergarten. Many kindergartens now practice six or seven hours of opening time, and many parents have been forced to pick up and deliver their children at times other than those appropriate to working time. Of course, it means a lot for the individual employee and also for the individual company that many employees have not been able to work full days because of having access to the nursery. Employees have received a signal from the government earlier that this must be done by themselves, together with the employer, but it is not as easy for all the companies to do this. SV believes that this needs to be handled more fully through a common regulatory framework and that the cost has to be borne by the community. It must be possible to take half a day and hours when the absence comes from sick children or from out-of-work corona measures. I interpret the government's proposal in this matter as an admission of the lack of flexibility in today's system. SV therefore vote in favour of this proposal, and we hope it will be put in place quickly. I am also aware of the improvements in the care funds provided in Prop. 127 L, known as crisis package 3. This is good, the question is only if it's good enough. Does the government have an overview of the different needs of families with children in this situation? It looks like parents with children in the risk groups are well taken care of in this proposal, and that is fine. Finally, it is not the individual worker and parents who have to take responsibility when the nursery or SFO is not open to meet the supervisory needs of young people. Most people have neither au pair nor paid babysitting. The Community must ensure that solutions are equally good for all workers, including those who do not have flexible working arrangements and home offices. I'm taking up the suggestions that SV is all behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2055	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Let's see.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2060	Both of the proposals we are discussing here relate to the legislation on care allowances for parents who are away from work in the context of reduced opening hours and closed schools associated with the coronary epidemic. Then there are also proposals that are more general. The various proposals may be assessed independently of each other. First, I should like to say a little bit about the proposal relating to reduced opening hours and the need for flexible solutions for reduced working time and care allowance. There is no doubt that flexible arrangements for freedom when opening hours are reduced in kindergartens and schools make everyday life easier for young children’s parents. Therefore, many employers have a practice in which they count hours rather than days when taking care free. Therefore, many people can come to work a little later or go a little earlier without deducting a whole day from the allowance of care allowance. Even when the social security is to refund the care allowance, it can be agreed at the workplace that individual hours are counted up to the full day, and that this is then reported to the employment and welfare centre as one day. So there are no formal or systemic reasons in Nav that prevent flexibility here. With the right to care, there is also the right to leave from work for these hours. The proposers wish to secure this right for all employees. But then they forget the other party here, the employer. There are not all jobs where it is possible to provide flexible working hours for all employees. This could be done, for example, by: relates to the shopkeeper who opens in the morning alone, or the producer who has to be on the production line of the person to take over is actually there. We cannot oblige employers of these employees to hire temporary workers for 30 minutes here and there. I believe it would be a disproportionate burden to impose on all jobs the obligation to allow care allowance and leave to be paid on an hourly basis. I would also warn against giving all employees rights that are not practicable to organise at all workplaces. What we have seen, on the other hand, is that most employees and employers are flexible. They're trying to make the best of the difficult situation. They are based on trust and cooperation in the labour market. I think that is the best thing, also in this case. We have a provision in the People's Security Act that allows for local agreement that employees should have an increased right to self-declaration. The question will be discussed with the trustees in the establishments and solutions will be found that are appropriate locally. Such a model could also benefit from care allowances. In that case, employees may require that this be discussed, so that benefits, disadvantages and possible solutions can be found in the individual workplace. I am not now given the opportunity to comment on the proposal to give all the additional 20 days of care money, but it indicates that the government's proposal has been promoted in the first part of the Phase 3 proposal, which is being discussed at Stortinget now. Then I would like to say that I see the proposals of the government parties and the Progress Party as a desire not to create less flexibility compared to what is possible today, but that the employer can also report half a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2079	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2084	The Council of State has included in the letter of reply, and also here in the pulpit, that there are no practical obstacles to introducing a technical solution today that allows you to report in individual hours. This means that you also have the opportunity today to charge individual hours, but it is up to the employer to assess whether there is a possibility. So I wonder, regardless of a legislative change: will the Council of State take the initiative in such a technical change, so that it becomes more practical for employers to offer this to their employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2090	Let me first say that I have not been aware that many feedback has been received that this is a major and difficult problem for employers, which is purely a matter of registration. What I know, on the other hand, is that there is a problem for some workers, especially in a situation where kindergartens open later — for example. if you have to be at work at 5 p.m. 8:00 a.m. and the nursery won't open until 8:00 a.m. 9th@item: inlistbox Now that there is a proposal asking us to consider one possibility, namely, that the employer can report half a day instead of just a whole day, it is natural to take this opportunity to look at some of the other things that I have outlined or mentioned in the letter to the committee. I can't promise that it'll be a conversion, but I can promise we'll take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2097	At the pulpit, the Council of State also outlined the solutions he himself outlined in his reply to the committee, precisely that one could look at the model that was also presented for the self-announcement days after the IA negotiations in the previous round. It is a model that also takes account of the social partners. Is there any reason why the Council of State does not pursue that idea further and invite the parties and the local initiative to such a conversion, so that more people can be given the opportunity to charge care money as single hours or half days?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2102	Just so we're clear: it's, as I see it, none of the parties, except SV, want all employers to be required to give care days to have care hours and individual hours. What you ask is whether you should make what is actually an opportunity in the law today, and which is used by a lot of people, namely that you have a great deal of flexibility even if the employer reports and gets a refund of care days. So it's like, as a state councillor, I'm doing what Stortinget asks me to do, not what Stortinget doesn't ask me to do. Besides, it's a little bit like in Kardomme City, that you can do what you want. That means that when I sketch this to the committee, it's not like that, although there's not a majority decision about it, that's not something I'm going to look at a little bit further – because that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2111	There I got an answer, and I interpret it as if the Council of State would still do as he pleases, and that we are going to see more clarification in the law promoted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2116	As I said, at least I'm going to look at it, and then we'll see. The question here is how much. What you have to be careful about is where there are systems that open up too much flexibility and that, in a normal situation, will work for most people. You just have to be careful not to make things more flexible or more difficult by codifying or modifying the law in practice. But this is one of the things that I, in the cold water of the corona and the problems that have come with it, think it makes sense to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2121	State councils do have kindergarten children themselves, so I guess this isn't a very distant problem. But does the Council have an overview of the different needs of workers in sectors that are not able to have home offices and flexibility? And he knows, for example. how many have used up their quota and have to take the cost of the remaining need for care days themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2126	To question number 2, we don't have an overview of it, nor does Nav. Very well-known statistics on this are not collected. It also means, on the first question, that we do not have an overview in the sense that there is an analysis or a list of all issues for all occupational groups which are updated with regular statistics or figures. That being said, both I know people and have people in close proximity who have not used home offices. I think most people do. It is easy to find a myth that the whole of Norway can sit in a home office. A little over 50 pst., even a little bit more when it's Korona, has the opportunity for home offices. But for a lot of people, there's no way. If you're a cleaner, you can't keep up with your home office, and you can't start a job when everyone else comes to work. For those groups, there is today also a dependence on flexible employers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2133	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2152	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2159	First, I would like to thank the Workers' Party for making suggestions to strengthen the serious players in the working life and increase recruitment to the craftsmen. I notice that in the hall here now there is an increasing attention to craftsmanship and practical subjects. We in the Center Party are very happy about that. That is why this is an important matter. But it is also a demanding matter, because we are in a situation where very much of the craftwork is done by cheap guest workers who work hard. They work so hard that they can't keep that pace through a whole professional life. This means that we get a situation where it is difficult for those who live in Norway to compete with people who are in that situation. There is broad consensus in the Committee that it is important to ensure the recruitment of crafts. If young people are to view crafts as an attractive career and career path in the future, they must be confident that skilled labour is valued in the labour market. These young people also need to know that they can count on a safe job and decent employment. That's how far we agree. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV want more stringent safety requirements. The government parties are basically satisfied with what it is. The opposition, the majority of the committee, but the minority in the Chamber, therefore wishes to impose stricter standards of seriousness on the industry, including requirements for executive professional competence, which will make an important contribution to it. Stricter seriousity requirements can ensure that the serious enterprises have real market access and are not subject to competition by unprofessional operators. There are a number of different company organisations to carry out craftsmanship, and there is an overall committee that says that we need all these company organisations – everything from seafaring businessmen without employees to large companies with many hundreds, yes, perhaps many thousands, of employees. What is important is that the legislation applicable to different companies with different situations is possible for each individual company organisation. It is essential to be aware and essential to have clear memory in everything we do in this area. Crafts enterprises carry out work for both public and private contracting authorities, and any contracting entity may impose the requirements which it wishes, within the meaning of the Norwegian law, for the work which it must have carried out. It must be very strongly emphasised. The public requirements will in many cases be normative also for many private action holders. That is why in this setting we have carefully considered the situation that has arisen, where the threshold for sending out a wide bid has been increased from NOK 500000 to SEK 1.3 million. kr. For this reason, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have joined forces to ask the government to promote a case of intensified seriousity requirements in public tenders, including requirements for executive professional competence for public acquisitions below the threshold of 1.3 million. kr. That's what we call "Lille-Doffin." The criteria must apply both to individual enterprises without own employees and to enterprises with employees. For example, for individual enterprises without self-employed persons, there should be a requirement for a diploma or equivalent, and for enterprises with own employees, for example, there must be a requirement for a proportion of professionals in the field for which tenders are to be made, for a proportion of permanent employment and for the number of apprentices, depending on the size of the establishment. Enterprises meeting these requirements are pre-qualified for a certain period of time. This will simplify the system very much. Finally, I would like to say that there has been a situation in this case that shows that there are many departments involved, and no one has overall responsibility. I expect the Council of State will clarify it. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee emphasises that we should have something similar to the Oslo model or the guidelines of the National Association of Construction Industry at least in relation to all major governmental missions. The centre party is also concerned with the further development of the Master Letter Scheme, with its requirements. I'll bring up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2187	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2192	The working party fights for a safe and fair working life with whole, permanent jobs and a wage to live on. We want to give the trade union workers a job and the apprentices a future. We choose the serious companies and we want to remove the unprofessional ones – and this case is just about that. The proposals we have promoted have been developed in close cooperation with the LO, the Joint Alliance and the craft industry. If we are to lure more young people into choosing a profession, we must be able to tell them that they will complete the race, that they will get a job, and that they will be properly treated. Unfortunately, we're not there yet. Some of this is due to the flourishing of actors competing with the serious enterprises – actors using unskilled and often based on rentals. Some of the worst is that this development is driven by the public. Too often, framework agreements are concluded below the threshold of 1.3 million. kr, without any serious claim and where the price is the only decisive one. We can't have it like that. Not only does it weaken the working life and the serious businesses, but in the last 20 years several of the construction trades have experienced a dramatic fall in recruitment. From 2007 to 2016, the recruitment fell to the painting subject with 59 pst., to the masonry with 64 pst. and to the timber store with 29 pst. In 2019, there were not enough primary applicants for surface engineering training in Oslo to maintain the last paint line at Stovner High School. Instead of stimulating unhealthy competition, the public must go ahead and demonstrate the gold standard in the labour market. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that municipalities should have serious requirements when purchasing below the threshold, so that the serious enterprises win. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it should be opened up for municipalities to assign maintenance tasks to training establishments at a pre-arranged hourly price, so that they compete on quality rather than on who offers the lowest price. Therefore, the Workers' Party considers that professional skills must be required in the performing part of the private construction market as well. Together with the construction industry, the NHO has launched the proposal to establish ‘Lille-Doffin’. The proposal involves effective digital acquisition based on predetermined pre-conditions of qualification and seriousness, ensuring greater competition and serious suppliers. This is not only a policy for a serious working life, it is also a good business policy towards small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction trades. Today there are a number of municipalities with the Workers' Party at the head that have adopted good standards of seriousness. The National Association of Construction and the Joint Confederation have established good guidelines. We want to take the best of the best and develop a national big effort on proud skilled workers. When the public order is made, a minimum of 50 pst. by hours worked by skilled workers, as required by Telemark and Skien. At least 10 pst. hours of work shall be carried out by apprentices, as required by Oslo. There shall be no more than one joint subcontractors, as they require in Rogaland. And in Trøndelag, Norwegian is called for as a working language. We are inspired by Nordland and Bodø, who are now developing an apprenticeship guarantee, and we suggest that all hired workers should be guaranteed 40 hours of health, environment and safety training and knowledge of the Norwegian working life model. If we are to succeed in all of this, we must also tighten the use of rentals. With the Workers' Party, rentals are prohibited, except in the case of pure vicarariat, in the case of rentals between production companies and where trust and management agree together that rentals are necessary. The Labour Party's policy is a major improvement in working life. The right-hander will not be involved in any of this. In fact, it is quite alarming that the right side dismisses the whole issue with self-confidence and that they are not willing to listen to business actors. Therefore, large-scale cleaning in the labour market is likely to start by costing the right parties out of government offices. I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2215	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2220	There is broad consensus in the Committee on the importance of ensuring the recruitment of crafts, even if one should not entirely believe it, perhaps when one heard the previous speeches, and there is a great need for more workers with vocational training in general in Norway, not only in the crafts sector. I would say that today's majority rights list in this area, under varying government compositions, actually shows that this has been a continuous priority area. We have made a significant boost to vocational education in Norway since these parties were given a majority in 2013, and we have consistently and over time prioritised the professions, both through budgetary appropriations and through concrete actions. The apprenticeship grant has increased seven times, by nearly NOK 25 000 per apprenticeship contract. The requirement for the use of apprentices to enterprises in public tenders has been reinforced. The rules for enterprises have been simplified, and more apprentices are included in the country. In addition, the Parties have strengthened the secondary education of equipment, the continuing training of vocational teachers through the VET, the right to build or complete a professional letter, and the introduction of a new practical, labour-oriented crafts subject as an electoral subject in secondary school – to mention something. Now we are in the process of renewing the supply structure for professional subjects. From 2020, students will receive previous specialisation. The common subjects of secondary education will also be more vocationalised, so that they better reflect the working day of the pupils meeting after completion of education. A national apprenticeship centre is also to be explored, which is to match apprentices looking for companies and apprentices looking for apprenticeships. I note that this may not have been controversial measures among the opposition, but it therefore took a civil majority in the UK to get such an ambitious investment in vocational education in place. The same applies to many measures taken by these parties to step up the fight against labour-life crime and unprofessional actors. In 2015, the government presented its own strategy against the crime of working life. Public acquisitions are highlighted here as a central tool to combat crime at work. A process has also been initiated with the social partners to revise this strategy. Helping public purchasers, private businesses and private consumers to choose serious suppliers becomes an important part of this. The ‘Smart procurement — efficient and professional public procurement’ Communication also promotes several measures relating to the seriousness of the labour market, including: by strengthening cooperation between contracting entities and control and supervisory authorities in order to ensure better enforcement of legislation and to make it easier to be serious in a tough market. The procurement legislation also contains more provisions to contribute to this and provides overall guidance to contracting entities wishing to make use of stricter requirements against unprofessionalism and criminality than the procurement law requires. There is, to a large extent, a positive opposition which is impatient after the government and the majority of the day in the Grand Duchy are going to do more of what we are already doing, but it is worth pointing out that the cooperation between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party has made sure that there are now more applicants for vocational education than there are for preparatory secondary education. The trend is sustained. Both the number and proportion of vocational education programmes have increased, and new records have been set in the number and proportion of vocational apprentices with apprenticeships in the enterprise. This must indicate that we have succeeded in raising the status of a professional profession, and that many people see a bright future just by choosing that direction. I believe, by reference to both this and the measures in place to combat crime at work and unprofessional actors, that the opposition should really have very low shoulders, given that we are not voting in favour of these proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2237	I would like to thank the Committee on good cooperation and an interesting debate. It's quite clear that there's a different perception of reality among the different parties about this problem. All my time in politics I have fought for red tape and simplification for citizens in general, and not least for business, for small and medium-sized enterprises, whether they live in Hammerfest in the north or Southern Search. When I hit business, small businesses, over that quite country, they want less rigid demands. I remember a public meeting I was on with businesses and craft companies in Search a while ago, complaining that you had too strict demands, which often seemed rigid and contrary to your purpose. It could be that one had to have work instructions to cut an isopor board with a wallpaper knife, or that one had to make a risk assessment and an action plan for muscle and joint diseases for a small plumbing company with two employees, etc. As with all the proposals for decisions in this Chamber, the intentions are often good, including in this proposal, but the practical policy that comes out of it can be different. This does not mean that we want an unfair and unfair working life, rather on the contrary. We want free competition that allows small businesses to participate. However, in order to strengthen the craft industries, the Progress Party has always spoken up workers with vocational and vocational training. We want to raise the status of these professions. For whom was it that took us through the worst of the coronary crisis? These included: the shop clerks, truck drivers, warehouse workers, etc. I think that to get more people to take vocational education, higher education needs to become more practical and less theoretical. This is why the Progress Party also wants students to have closer contact with the business environment and the professional environments in which they are going to work. In addition, strong incentives are needed to recruit apprentices. Under the red-green government stood the apprentice grant on site resting for eight years. Not one more penny did you want to give to get more apprentices to work. But in the period 2014-2017, when the Progress Party was in government, the grant increased nominally by NOK 25 000, in addition to wage and price developments, and the number of apprenticeships with apprentices increased by 15 pst. But not enough: we want to go even further, so the Progress Party wants to remove the tax that companies have to pay to employ apprentices, the employer's fee, which is actually a employee's fee, because it is the employees who really have to pay that tax, it is just to use a better word to say that employers pay it. Nor do we get out of this debate to point to the crime of working life. We talked about it a little while ago in another matter here. It is always like this when we discuss it, that we must refer to things that have been done, that the Progress Party was in government, and what has been done in Stortinget. In 2019, we discussed, inter alia: Report. St. 22 for 2018–2019, which deals with smarter purchases and efficient and professional acquisitions, with significant increases in the response to labour crime and unprofessional actors. When the Progress Party put in government, a separate strategy was put in place to combat labour crime, and I think it is natural to look at the procurement rules when this strategy is being revised. That doesn't mean we rule out any proposals that will come, we'd like to discuss that, but we'd like to discuss them when the revision comes. Then I imagine that we can have a debate on how more small businesses can achieve competition through simpler regulation and less form fields, because it is the business that is out of demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2254	If we are to be able to take care of a lack of serious craftsmanship, we are to be able to develop good tradesmanship in all the important craftsmanship, for example. in the construction industry, it must lead to a major tightening of the labour market. It has long been a trend that price trumps everything. Price is a hard market mechanism, and when he gets rough on his own, it goes on the cost of quality, the lack of quality and, finally, even the subjects themselves. We have seen this, among other things. in the painting profession. To counteract this, new strict regulations need to be made. There are several good proposals here that will both counteract the unfortunate developments in many of the practical craftsmanship professions and strengthen the recruitment of professionals. A proposal we propose on stricter requirements for the competence of managers, e.g. requirements for master's letters will clearly strengthen the position of professionals in society. Not only will there be a huge appreciation of those who already have master letters – it will very likely also help to push the unprofessional players out of the market. I have no time to believe that Master's requirements are the answer to everything, but it will be a good step in the right direction of a more serious working life with more employers who have a better knowledge of the laws and rules around their responsibilities, both for the quality of the craftsmanship being carried out and for the responsibilities of the employer. Frankly, I think it is too easy today to get an AS, hire people and offer carpentry, plumbing, or shivering, for that matter. It's really just to browse out some thousands of notes, and then there's no more requirements than that. What we are proposing here is quite extensive. In some ways it's a little bit new. So we're asking for an explanation of this. It is probably also a good idea to introduce a gradual approach if it is appropriate. But it probably won't be in this game. At least I didn't get any signal that this could get more today. What we are proposing is that the requirements for apprentices in supply processes should be enforced much more rigorously in time, with a higher unemployment rate and probably a greater shortage of learning places. This should be edible for more parties than the ones in the option, since all parties in other contexts want to be strong champions for enough learning places. In addition to this, I wonder what the government party thinks that raising this threshold has resulted in positive consequences for the economic operators. Is it really such that in this case an argument about red tape is held against giving market access to the craftsmanship companies that provide professional quality and training to new skilled workers? I hope the Minister will do the right thing to do about the consequences of raising the threshold, because this is not mentioned by a single word of the government party in the comments in the settings. With this I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2273	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2278	The proposal is twofold. Firstly, the importance of the seriousness of work in general and of public procurement in particular. It is easy to be summed up in the very goal of a serious work life. In 2015, the government presented its own strategy plan against the crime of working life, just to fight against such undesirable activities. In addition, the Public Procurement Code is now to be revised together with the social partners. Regulations on pay and working conditions in public contracts also require that central working conditions are met. In Report. St. 22 for 2018–2019 the fight against labour crime was stepped up with many concrete measures. The sum of measures taken or planned is intended to reduce the unprofessional part of working life. Activities involved in public procurement rounds must satisfy the requirements of procurement law, which will make it harder for unprofessional to win offers. Setting master letter requirements or the like for a number of industries will not ensure that the unprofessional activities disappear. A selection has, among others: assessed whether competence requirements are conducive to the achievement of the objective, and there are different challenges in setting such competence requirements. These include: it is difficult to achieve a proper balance between formal and real competence and to ensure at the same time that the requirement is in line with the obligations of Norway under the EEA Agreement. The proposal for a general requirement for formal professional competence will not be acceptable to many industries. It can be depreciating and not always possible to fulfill. The Christian People's Party believes that there are other measures that are more effective in the fight against unprofessional practices and social dumping. The Christian People's Party believes that the fight against labour crime is well represented by the existing legislation and a number of measures, such as smart purchases, cf. Report. St. 22 for 2018–2019, where the pressure is held up by concrete actions aimed at precisely combating labour-life crime. Good regulation, follow-up and control will also be necessary in the future in the fight against crime at work, thus strengthening the serious part of the market. The Christian People's Party does not believe that the proposal, as proposed in Decision I, will contribute to achieving a common goal. We shall vote against this proposal. When it comes to proposals on the ability of municipalities to assign apprenticeship places to training establishments, this question is particularly relevant as a result of the corona situation. The government is working on a number of tracks to remedy the fact that apprentices fall out as a result of layoffs. Among other things, the government has provided for a temporary derogation from some requirements relating to the conduct of a professional test. In addition, the government has put forward proposals to facilitate easier access to support for general learning skills for professionals and apprentices. Furthermore, financial measures are linked to the covid-19 pandemic, but also a more general level of competence in the revised national budget, important measures to remedy the situation of many apprentices and skilled workers. The proposal to impose demands on apprentices in enterprises on a general basis will not in itself secure us against crime or unprofessionalism in the workplace. If local authorities are to be required to distribute apprentices to training establishments, this will require a legal requirement. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, has made a significant contribution to professional education since 2013. Furthermore, the Education Directorate has launched an evaluation of the apprenticeship requirement in public contracts. Since 2013, the government has strengthened the professional profession by 700 million. kr. Significant efforts in the professional field and recruitment for crafts are an important step towards strengthening professional competence in the performance phase. The Christian People's Party believes that a good organisation for training and further training of professionals is particularly important, similar to the municipal allocation of places in training establishments. The proposal to introduce the Oslo model for all public utilities that announce supply will not guarantee the seriousness. The Christian People's Party believes that there are other measures that are better taken to achieve the common objectives of a clean and serious working life, and we will therefore not support the proposal for Decision II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2307	We're in a special time, and at the end of May was about 6 pst. by the apprentices – 2,800 persons – seconded or retired. For the government, it has been important that apprentices should not be left behind in the training process as a result of the coronary situation, and we have therefore put in place and promoted several measures to remedy the situation. In the Education Plan 2020, we propose inter alia: 300 million. kr for the completion of several lay-offs and unemployed without completion of secondary education. We also propose 350 million. for measures for apprentices. The government keeps tracking the consequences of the virus. Many measures have been put in place to remedy the business situation. Many of these measures are also relevant to the craft and construction industries. On Friday 29 May, the government presented a number of new measures, including: proposes about 4 billion. kr for construction and maintenance measures. Of these funds, we propose that 2.5 billion. kr goes to the municipal maintenance and rehabilitation sector. These are measures that will stimulate increased activity for craft professionals. The proposal of the representative that the government should promote the issue of increased seriousity requirements in public tenders, including enhanced professional competence requirements in the performance phase, must be seen in the context of the government's strategy against the crime of working life. We have a goal of making the market smaller for unprofessional actors. One of the instruments is to make public purchasers choose serious actors, and the procurement legislation contains several rules to contribute to it. It's e.g. restrictions on the number of stages of the supply chain for contracts in the construction sector and the requirement for employees to have working conditions in accordance with general or national collective agreements. There is also an obligation to require the use of apprentices in public contracts in order to contribute to a sufficient number of apprenticeships for vocational students and a sufficient number of skilled workers with professional or bachelor letters. The procurement law further opens up in order to enable the contracting entities to request professional competence in their acquisitions. Acquisition rules shall also take account of other important considerations, such as the requirement of non-discrimination and competition, and a balance must be struck between strict requirements of seriousness and other considerations in order to ensure proportionate and as far as possible sound regulation. We have also proposed several measures related to the seriousness of the labour market in the Annual General Report Smarter procurement from 2019. The government is planning a new revision of the strategy against labour crime in 2021, in cooperation with the social partners. The government wants to make the market smaller for the criminal actors by helping public purchasers, private consumers and private businesses to find out about serious suppliers. The proposers propose that professional skills requirements should be extended to the private construction market. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the Committee on Building Quality recently delivered its report, which includes the following: have assessed whether the competence requirements of the Planning and Building Act contribute to the achievement of the objective of building quality and serious and competent actors, or whether there is a need to think new. The committee points to different challenges in setting skills requirements, including: finding a proper balance between formal and real competences which do not result in the keeping of tradesmen out of the market, while ensuring that the requirements are in line with Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. There are already a number of regulations, measures and ongoing work aimed at strengthening the serious actors in the labour market and improving the situation of apprentices. Finally, I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important topic. It is a theme on which both government and opposition are concerned, because we want serious players in this market, and we also want to raise the apprentices and ensure future competence in the important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2333	First of all, thank you for the good words from the Council of State to raise the issue. The Council of State has fine wording relating to non-discrimination, but there is no equal treatment when a company that wants to have permanent employees, who want to have skilled workers, who want to bet on apprentices, has to compete with actors who do not care about it, and where the price becomes the only blessing that determines who receives the tender. Then it's not equal treatment. The council itself pointed out that it was about at the end of May. 2,800 apprentices who were licensed. We checked last week, and it was still 2,420 perm. It goes down very slowly. Here we have a concrete proposal that could provide security for the trainees on leave, which could allow training companies, like trade union workers and apprentices, to be given jobs and created peace and optimism. Why can't the government parties support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2340	Here are some different things I want to answer, because the representative makes different statements. To this extent, I can agree that price often has great importance in acquisitions, and perhaps even too much importance in acquisitions. I believe that there is room in the legislation we have, to emphasize other things as well, and that it should have been done to a greater extent. Now we've done a good job of getting apprentices focused. So that's also an important part of the recruitment basis. With regard to the proposals made by the representatives of the majority of the Committee, I believe that the parties to the government explain why they do not support them in their comments on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2349	I think it is quite surprising that a left-wing representative, who belongs to a party that has often stated that they want to build up under the small and medium-sized enterprises, so smoothly ignores the problems these companies are experiencing today. In the case of acquisitions below the threshold of 1,3 million. too often, framework agreements are concluded and only the price determines who receives the tender. The fact that there is no more attention from the government that more needs to be done to ensure that the serious businesses are given a mission is a mystery to me. The proposal from the Workers' Party is on the table. It's just to vote for it, we can actually do something that monks for these businesses. Another question is: what should be done to enable apprentices to complete, to obtain the opportunity to take a letter of formal qualifications, and to have the opportunity to receive training? It is precisely in the workplace of the serious companies that they can have this opportunity. Why doesn't the Left see that context when you talk about securing the apprentices?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2358	I do not share in any way the reality description that the representative shows here. This government has taken considerable steps to secure more apprentices, and I think the representative Toning Riise had a good review. Among other things, we have increased the apprenticeship grant significantly. In the case of the threshold and its position, it is raised to 1,3 million. kr. There is also a balance sheet, because it is clear that falling within the scope of that procurement law also leads to some work for the actors involved. But whether that's where it's going to be, and what effect it's had, we want to look at. So we're going to evaluate this raising of the threshold. An evaluation of the a-crime strategy is now being carried out, precisely because this government is concerned that we should have a serious working life. We're going to have serious actors, we're going to have good conditions for those who work there, while we're going to have competition in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2367	I want to raise my eyes a little and talk about how small companies can compete in public competitions about tenders – whether in Randaberg, Flekkefjord, Halden or Lillehammer, for that matter. I have heard from many of the actors themselves that it is becoming more difficult and more difficult for many of the small ones to reach the competition, and that many companies have to employ their own Doffin specialists and applicants to do that job – that you have to have good applicants rather than good skilled workers. So the question is, what will the Council of State do to simplify the rules on public procurement so that more small enterprises can compete in public procurement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2376	Now I think the representative is concerned with the dilemma here, with the thresholds. It is clear that there are also significant costs as there is an increase in the amount of work involved in implementing the procedures set out in the legislation. There is a dilemma between having a regulatory framework that brings many players into competition, i.e. in the market, and facilitating easier acquisitions, but also at risk of pushing more out. That's the balance we have to figure out all the way, and that's also why we have to evaluate it. I am concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is why it is also an important principle when the state makes tenders, that we should split up or justify. Sometimes we are unable to split up, but then it has to be justified – precisely to get the small and medium-sized players on the road. What we have now presented in this phase 3 package is 4 billion. kr for construction and maintenance, which will mean a lot for the business segment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2383	The parties to the Government are voting against any proposal for stricter standards of seriousness. The Council of State did not give its opinion on the proposals that were in place, which she was to respond to. One refers to a number of departments. As the rapporteur, I propose a "Lille-Doffin" to clarify the legislation. It should be an advantage, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, for one to have such legislation. We're not getting any support for it. It could meet the requirements of the Progress Party here by obtaining a prior approval. So the Council of State says that the government considers stricter rules of seriousness against ‘other considerations’. What are the ‘other considerations’ that are troubling our proposals for stricter rules of seriousness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2390	First: I believe I have answered Storting’s question in writing. I believe that I also replied to that in my post. On the one hand, we want people to have professional and formal competence. At the same time, we do not want to exclude those who have gained experience and have a real competence. Here's a balance we have to find. We want to have major players, but we also want to have small actors. We want to facilitate a tendering law that makes us competitive on the market, but at the same time does not have excessive transaction costs. And that's this balance we're all working on, and that we've also evaluated. But when we make changes, we need to look at and evaluate the effects it has had. That's why we're going to look at and evaluate this raising of the threshold. That is why we need to revise the a-crime strategy, because this is a continuous work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2395	There's so much talk about revising strategies that half could be enough. That's very diplomatically said. What's in this setting is that we need all kinds of companies, and the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV say that to ensure all types of companies, the legislation has to be somewhat different in order to ensure the seriousness, while ensuring all companies in the future. So the considerations that the state councils are drawing on here, we've taken good care of from the opposition in a proper way. My question is: we have proposals for master's letters for craftsmanship offers. Governments were subject to obligations under the EEA Agreement. Is it true that the introduction of master letter requirements is contrary to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2405	Here were some things I must be allowed to attend. It can't be like that – or it could be like that in the opposition's eyes – that you have found the truth and the answer, and that's the only way to go. For my part, I'm concerned with evaluating the changes we're making, so when we raise the threshold, we need to carry out an evaluation of it just to see the consequences of what we're doing. When we're going to review the a-krim strategy, it's not to review, it's because the world is changing, the world is evolving, because we see a need out there, a vision I also see that the social organisations share. So I mean that being in a development in this area is important, precisely because things change. When it comes to master's letters, it's been looked at, and there's a variety of issues that can make it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2412	Following on from the previous replicator, I can remind the Council of State that in Germany they have a requirement for master's letter in construction, which she can look at. In addition to that, I would like to claim that in some parts of the country, in some subjects, there are just the small craft companies where the manager has master letters, which account for most of the apprentice's intake and education in the trade – perhaps as much as 90 pst. by all apprentices in individual courses in construction. Can the Council of State do something for what it believes to be a positive effect of a requirement for master letter for business leaders in the construction industry – or a requirement for another type of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2419	That's a good question. I would like to see the representative send a written question about it, because this has been looked at, and there are a little different issues in implementing this. But I believe the representative when she says that they do in Germany, and also that it has a positive effect on the apprenticeship and education of the next generation of craftsmen. But if the representative wants details about the challenges related to master letter here, we have a report from a sample that I can share with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2424	There will then be a call to voting. The remaining speakers in case No. 32 will be given the floor after the vote is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2436	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-31 on today's map and case no. 33, Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2448	Case No. 1 is the third reading of laws and applies to legislative act 104, with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 4 June 2020. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2460	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2472	Case No. 15 is the second time that laws are being dealt with and applies to Law 120. During the debate, the representative Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: VII The Law applies from the time the King decides. The king may bring the various parts of the law into force at different times.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2486	The comment on Law Decision 120 is therefore accepted. The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be taken until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2497	Case No. 2-14 and Nos 16–26 is the second reading of laws and applies to Acts 107 to 119 and 121 to 131. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2511	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample to be selected to evaluate all aspects of the Folloban project.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2537	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. «The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an overview of the consequences of the excess costs mentioned in the Notice. Article 17 provides for the progress and start-up of other projects, and what measures the government will take to reduce overruns.» [[2019-2020]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2562	The party of progress, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2574	Furthermore, the following were set: II Report. St. 17 [[2019-2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2593	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3-5, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 6, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the introduction of a progressive air passenger charge to be investigated by the Government. The investigation shall include an assessment of how such a charge may be higher for first class/business trips, for many foreign trips annually and for trips between the major cities of Norway with alternative, more environmentally friendly travel modes. It shall also be taken into account that the necessary air travel on the short-haul network and in the districts is exempt from charge.’» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2625	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate the possibility of introducing a ‘frequency flyer levy’ or ‘air miles duty’ into Norwegian aviation. The investigation shall assess how such a charge can be differentiated between, respectively. international flights, domestic flights and flights on the short-haul network.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use of electric and hybrid aeroplanes in the FOT routes as soon as the technology is available’.» [[with advanced biodiesel]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to set a measure of full electrification of the short-range network by 2030’.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2654	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government as soon as possible and, by May 2020 at the latest, propose a temporary compensation scheme for aviation that compensates the industry for parts of the loss of sales’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2675	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to adapt the charging structure to stimulate demand for zero-emission aeroplanes and to start adapting the infrastructure at Avinor’s aerodromes to zero-emission aeroplanes.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2699	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8 and 9, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 12, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to Stortinget with proposals for independent supervision ensuring quality, sound financial management and equal treatment of public and private kindergartens’. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals on how to oversee the calculation of government grants to children in private kindergartens through independent supervision in the Directorate of Education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e2736	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 4 and points 6 and 7 on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a statement or case to the Storting clarifying the legislative changes, regulatory changes or the need for new interpretative signals to the administration required by the renewal of the profession, e.g. in the law on independent schools’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government asks the Stortinget to come back to Stortinget with a bill for the regulation of private kindergartens that better takes care of the whole of the amendment, including the provisions of the Children's Gardens Act § 14 a Requirements for the use of government grants and parental benefit in non-municipal kindergartens». Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose measures to tighten up the absence of temporary work in the event of absence and to clarify what is required for adequate staffing throughout the opening hours of the kindergarten’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Adult Education Association is involved in the further development of regulations governing the study associations’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the legislation in order to enable study associations to provide training electronically’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the minimum number of hours per study course to four hours’. Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3815	It is contested by Section IV, Section 10, first paragraph. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3829	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 64 on kindergartens are amended as follows: § 21 Scope and purpose The Chapter applies to private kindergartens receiving grants under Section 19. The purpose of the chapter is to ensure that all government grants and parental payments benefit children in kindergarten.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3845	It is then voted on IV, §§ 21–23. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3859	It is contested by Section IV, Section 53, first paragraph and Section V, Section 6, second paragraph. Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 8 and 9 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 53 of the Kindergarten Act shall be replaced by the following: The municipality supervises the operation of kindergartens in accordance with this law.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘In Section 6 of the Adult Education Act, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The grant shall consist of the following components: Basic grants. Training grants. Organisational grants.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3899	The remainder of IV and V as well as I, II, III and VI shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3909	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Adult Education Act, Section 4g is replaced by the following: (g) enabling people to influence their own lives.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3929	It shall be added over VII. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3941	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3955	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3967	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a warning obligation between public authorities that become aware of trafficking in human beings, including as part of the cooperation within the a-krim centres.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that situations in which the employer is deliberately misled by employees are equated with encouraging or pushing the employee to commit an illegal act deliberately.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e3998	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider an obligation to notify the Labour Inspectorate when workers apply for daily allowances and claim to be exposed to trafficking in human beings or to crime at work.’ The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4028	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4047	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is immediately asked to ensure that all workers who are in need of shorter opening hours in kindergartens and the SFO are entitled to care allowance even for one and a half days, and to provide employers with an obligation to do so.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that parents who have to take out care days due to a lack of child care continue to be entitled to pay, initially by increasing the temporary quota by a further 20 days.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4083	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a change in the law that makes it clear the possibility of withdrawing care days as individual hours, for example according to the model of the fourth paragraph of Section 8-24 of the Law on Social Security. The withdrawal of days of care that are individual hours shall be decided locally after discussion with the trustees in the establishment.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4109	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4121	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider introducing care allowance down to 50 p.m., for parents who have to be away from work part of the day.’ The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4171	The cancellation then goes back to the examination of case No. 32 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4191	The central thing in this case is craftsmen, it's practical education. After what has been said in all the introductions, I found the need to clarify some basic things. Firstly, the Centre Party is a strong supporter of theoretical education, but any theoretical education aims at becoming a more competent practice. It should be a doctrine that is much more evident in our educational institutions and in our working life. The centre party is a hot defender of the practical professions. Today, the practical professions have far too low respect both economically and not least socially. It's a very fast experience when you're in youth and you ask youth what they want to learn. It is too big a flock that sees higher university education as the right thing – people who have interest and orientation for practical subjects, but who see from experience that it does not have the future of higher education. What has created this situation? The most important thing is that we have a whole new working life, a whole new labour market as a result of the fact that the Great Britain no longer has control over labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, from countries where pay and working conditions are much worse, where unemployment is very high, and where there are a number of good young people who are probably interested in working in Norway for a payment far lower than the Norwegian youth needs to live a good life. Therefore, the first requirement of the Centre Party is that we have controlled labour immigration with permanent employment and permanent residence, and that temporary employment agencies replace employment agencies. The use of such agencies shall not be permitted in cases other than where temporary employment agencies replace specific posts as a result of either being ill, under education or on maternity leave. Furthermore, there is a need to generalise several collective agreements and there is a need to reintroduce collective redress. There is therefore a great need to have a large-scale cleaning in Norwegian working life, and this is the core of the Central Party’s large-scale cleaning in the world of work. There are a lot of people now who have talked about proud tradesmen, choosing the serious ones. The right has spoken of a significant boost to vocational training. A lot of this isn't possible until we get pay and work conditions for these young people who are on the level of what they have in society. And when the representative Meininger Saudland from the Progress Party says that the Progress Party has always set up for the practical professions – yes, one has spoken a lot, but when it comes to the play, the party is for uncontrolled labour immigration, and it beats the legs under most of what the Progress Party is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4204	Some people, as usual, try to turn this debate into an EU/EEA debate. There's no reason, because in the very area we're now talking about, the Stortinget, the county councils and the municipalities have full freedom to decide how to rig the world of work. For purchases below the threshold of 1,3 million. kr is the other requirement that can be corrected, ensuring skilled workers, ensuring apprentices, ensuring a serious working life, and ensuring that there is Norwegian language between key personnel. That's the full possibility. This is not a debate that is being brought on us by international legislation, this is a debate that is being held because we have municipalities, counties and also a state that does not take the responsibility of ensuring a safe and fair working life for everyone. There may be good reasons to discuss the proposal of the Centre Party and SV to have some kind of professional competence requirement within the subject in which you want to set up a company. Germany has it. The Labour Party would like to discuss it in the future, but the proposal, as it has been promoted, is very vaguely formulated. Therefore, we recommend that we work across the party boundaries to discuss how we can take some further steps. But we are therefore voting against a proposal that does not seem to be particularly clarifying. From the Right and Kristian Tonning Riise there is a lot of self-confidence about investing in the profession, but people need jobs. In order to solve this, it is claimed that more effort is needed in the fight against crime at work, and public procurement is important here. Yes, that's absolutely right, but there are no obligations from the government parties. The plan of action against crime at work will be revised next year. There is no help for the companies that today wonder if they have assignments for their employees tomorrow. In addition, this is more than just work-life crime. It's about unprofessionalism, social dumping and what we can do not just to focus on punishment and punishment, but actually to give priority to the serious businesses, so that they can win jobs instead of being out of competition. We also react to talk so much about ensuring higher education that is more practical and less theoretical. Yeah, where do you learn the subject? Where should you ensure that you receive more practical training? Well, that's where the apprentices are today, in the small and medium-sized enterprises, in the serious part of working life. It doesn't realize the right side, so they're voting against our proposals, but we're going to stand on for the major cleaning of the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4215	My good colleague Yassine Arakia in Oslo Right is a professional teacher, and during this debate he has sent a message asking whether we would like to support under the fact that those who are today apprentices and are not able to complete their education will be able to complete it during the summer and perhaps until Christmas. He has asked the City Council in Oslo questions about this, and they have not yet answered, even if it has been asked twice. Not only should you have a job, you should also be allowed to keep the apprenticeship, but it is not so important for the City Council in Oslo. Although it is said here that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of ensuring the recruitment of crafts, and that young people regard it as an attractive career path with a safe job and decent working conditions at the other end, it is under this government that a policy has been pursued that has led to a influx to precisely these professions. Since the accession of the Solberg government, the fight for a serious work life has been significantly escalated. It was also the Right who started working in the City Council in Oslo, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, with what became the much-discussed Oslo model with demands for, among other things. apprentices in public tenders and limited number of stages in the supply chain. This was proposed in 2015 and introduced in 2017. I stand here with demands for pay and working conditions in public contracts. Here are many of the requirements that are demanded and that you think the Workers' Party has introduced in Oslo. It's not just the lowest price that's liberating, it's the best relationship between price, cost and quality. Tax and VAT certificates are required and qualification requirements can be imposed on the supplier. In 2017, there was a demand for apprentices and a maximum of two stages in the supply chain. These include: also required skilled craftsmen to provide a minimum of 40 pst. of hours worked, and in Oslo I believe to remember that 50 pst has been introduced. of these. Communication between key project personnel is required in Norwegian. There is a requirement for all to have clearly valid HMS cards, and there is also a requirement for mandatory Startbank membership, which is a voluntary supplier register, established on the initiative of the construction industry. – So the system you have in Oslo doesn't stand out from what the government is already doing. This government has taken serious demands from day one, which is now producing results, and has also provided a significant boost for professionals and apprentices who are now also producing results. Both the number and proportion of professionals are increasing, and new records have been set in the number and proportion of apprentices with apprenticeships in the enterprise. In other words, we believe that the government's policy is better suited to increasing recruitment to the craftsmanship professions than this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4226	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4231	It is true that many municipalities have good serious requirements when purchasing through public acquisitions, as I pointed out in my post. The problem in many municipalities is that when framework agreements are concluded below the threshold of 1.3 million. kr, in very many cases the same seriousity requirements are not met. It is when one is above the thresholds that these serious requirements are often used. Therefore, the craft industry tells us that although many municipalities have good serious requirements at the bottom, it does not meet when you have these minor maintenance tasks for which framework agreements are often concluded. That is why our proposal would have contributed positively. I would have liked us to have had the opportunity to discuss with the Council of State what is going on to ensure the apprentices' assignments as early as autumn. People are worried. Unfortunately, we have not received an answer to that, but we shall continue to work for our apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4238	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-08.ana.ud357e4244	With it today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It doesn't seem like the meeting's been cancelled.
