ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mr Solfrid Lerbreck, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e35	There was something wrong with the system yesterday, which made me have to take it today. I would like to make a proposal from the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself on a Christmas contribution to the unemployed. I would ask that the matter be dealt with expeditiously under Rule 39(c).
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e44	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e60	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Bent Höie and Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e69	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. All over the country, workers, waiters, receptionists, training instructors, cooks and others working in small and large enterprises are now afraid of a new wave of unemployment. They're in that wave of leave. The biggest challenge facing Norway today is a growing social and economic crisis for those who lose their jobs, who are unemployed and completely out of work. This was an unexpected situation when the infection hit. We had to improvise. Arrangements for compensation were put in place. There was a system you hadn't tried before, so you had to follow how it worked. As of 1 September, the system was closed, without a new plan for what could happen if a new shutdown occurred. In the April surveys of the Institute of Public Health, it was quite clear that a new wave of infection could occur in the autumn, and it also arrived. Enterprises have had to wait for support, and the Minister of Finance has repeated that the government will provide economic measures that take, when needed, but do not. Today, enterprises are ending, also because local measures for the protection of infectious diseases in municipalities are particularly vulnerable, where this is taking place. For many companies there is now a question of waiting until January. They are not supported by a tax base that is exempt from liability; it is to be transferred to the Brønnøsund Registers. So what took us three weeks to get in place, we've spent a whole harvest not being ready when the next wave came. So I wonder: When it became clear that the tax rate could not have this role, did it not have this responsibility for any new compensation, when did the government start to put in place a new system that could be accurate about and when there was a new crisis? It came too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e84	We are now in the greatest crisis we have had in recent times. It is a global health crisis that has also become a deep economic crisis, affecting jobs and businesses. The government has been very clear all the way to doing what is necessary for Norway to get out of the crisis safely. According to the OECD, Norway is so far one of the most advanced countries, both in terms of health and in terms of the economy. It is true that the Stortinge joined the government's proposal that the old compensation scheme be terminated at the end of August, and then I announced at the same time, in June, that the government would sit down with the social partners and discuss what the needs would be beyond the harvest, and we did. The answer to the question is that we started work in June. We met with the social partners at the beginning of the autumn, and we agreed with the social partners that we should set up a special travel scheme, which was the industry and industry that was most badly affected. We worked with a new system that should be targeted and tailored to the needs. When Norway was hit by wave number two, we had new meetings with the social partners and agreed that we should have a wide compensation scheme. It's now going to be in place. It opens on 18 January, will have a treatment duration of two to three days, may receive several thousand applications and will deal with them quickly, and the level of compensation is good. But then it's not that it's the only scheme for business. There are many other schemes – the possibility of postponing the payment of taxes, a favourable loan guarantee scheme of 90 pst. government-guaranteed loans – which we have also adapted to the situation in which we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e97	We know all these meetings and dialogues. The point is that the system is not up and going when the crisis strikes. And when municipalities like Oslo and Bergen and surrounding municipalities have had to take very drastic measures, they don't take. How do we learn from the experience of the schemes that have been? We have proposed measures along the way to ensure that there is no abuse and not injustice in the way the schemes are practiced. We have wanted companies to be required to receive support, not to give up during the period they receive crisis support, not to pay dividends, share buy-backs or bonuses to managers and to agree with trustees to maintain jobs over the period. Which of these lessons does the Minister of Finance think there is now room for inclusion in the new scheme? It is perceived as unfair that this system may come out crooked, not hit those who need it. We have to learn along the way, we have to adapt the arrangements. Which of these demands has the Labour Party made here is the Minister of Finance willing to consider for the new scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e106	What is underlying the representative’s question is which agency should be responsible. It's the government's responsibility. We're making sure we have a budget that's been cut to deal with this system. What matters to business is that there is a system that hits. And that's what it's going to do, it's going to have to be adapted to the situation that we're in. So it's also that a compensation based on trading losses cannot be paid and calculated before the month is over. For December, it will not be until January that aid can be paid. I believe that the main lesson of the arrangements is that the systems must be adapted to the infectious diseases situation. When we have strict measures for the protection of infection, it is absolutely necessary and right to provide compensation. When measures to prevent infection are softened, we need to stimulate activity. We have considered many of the proposals of the Labour Party. I believe that it will complicate the arrangements. I believe that the arrangements we have had have worked well. And of course, there are some companies that aren't fully taken, but they don't want to do that with the alternatives of the Workers' Party either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e113	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e118	It is the government's responsibility to choose the budget, but I think that when you change the budget, and it's not operational when the crisis hits, the government has done a bad job preparing for it. That's my point. But then to this with how the arrangements are received and fair. I note that the majority of the Right and Advance Party in the Front have rejected all these demands for detention upon receipt of these public funds and that it should also be clear in the provisions of the legislation. Today, there is an article in today's NHH-scientist Ole-Andrea's Nose. He has gone through the recipients of the corona support and sees that five companies have received a total of 1 billion. NOK, as much as 27,000 small enterprises. These are the companies he refers to in common that they have not paid as much tax to Norway in the last five years, and the 25 companies that have received the most support have received three times as much aid in six months as they have paid in tax in the last five years. The question is: are the small companies affected by the local measures affected by the schemes? Are these lessons that the Council of State will take into account in the practice of the new scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e127	My attitude is that things can always be done better. Throughout this crisis, we have been concerned that we need to learn along the way. We have experts who give us advice, including: Professor Holden. We listen to the economic environments, we have a strong professional environment in the Ministry of Finance, and we have unusually close contact with the social partners and listen to their advice. Then it's our responsibility to take the decisions in consultation with Stortinget. I have read that article in Today's Business. It is not that the Storting has been eager to have a lower ceiling on the arrangements that we have put in place. Rather, on the contrary, the Stortinget has pointed out that large groups with a large number of businesses within their business must also be able to receive support and thus have increased ceilings. But I believe that we need to learn all the time, and that is why we also equip Innovation Norway with a set of different tools to hit small and medium-sized enterprises. We've also lowered the entry barrier in the compensation schemes we've had and that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e134	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e139	This, I think, is important for the legitimacy of the arrangements and the use of so much of the Community's resources. Right now, in order to adapt the disease prevention situation, it is particularly small enterprises in the large municipalities of Oslo and Bergen and surrounding municipalities that are being taken. There are companies that already had little reserves, and now have very little reserves – there is a short way to get them over the top. It is considered that one of eight companies may be bankrupt because of the measures taken in November and December. For these enterprises, no arrangements are available. These are enterprises that can simply go under pending the operation and availability of the scheme and the agency that the Council of State is talking about. Why does the Council of State not want to look at exceptional measures for these very enterprises, which are affected by the most intrusive local disease protection measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e147	We're open to do that. But the Storting rejected the Workers' Party's proposal yesterday, and I think that's because those proposals will only come to the top of the others and make the arrangements more complicated, and it will take longer to make payments. None of the Workers' Party's proposals made yesterday would lead to the money coming faster – they would rather be able to come later. We're now in the middle of wave number. 2, we're in the middle of the crisis. At the same time, we should be glad that in the last few weeks there have been fewer jobseekers. The vacancy has fallen last week, also in Oslo. I share the fear and concern of many of the small and medium-sized enterprises in cities that are socially confined and elsewhere, but there are none of the schemes we now have in place that exclude those enterprises. The possibility of postponing taxes and taxes is also important for those enterprises. For the loan guarantee scheme, there is a requirement that profits should be made in 2019, but otherwise we have softened it, so that more people can be evaluated by their local bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e154	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e159	The main problem is that it is not – let us say – accurate enough, what has been presented by the government. There are many companies that are not being taken. A very good example of this is that when a take-up of local measures for the protection of infection is quite invasive, which means that the companies are relatively slowing down in turnover, they are not compensated for it by the scheme put forward by the government. It is a major problem, and it has been pointed out by the Labour Party through a proposal that we made yesterday, which has not yet been rejected, but which will be voted on tomorrow. It is a matter of compensating for local infectious diseases because they are affected. I'm standing here with the regulations for Korona in the Drama, where, for example. drinking establishments serving alcohol are not allowed to serve alcohol. It is clear that when such a local decision is taken, it means a significant reduction in turnover for the companies in the Drammen. However, they are not compensated for this because the government's proposal does not take into account just local measures for the protection of infectious diseases. Then my question is, why does the government not want to facilitate compensation for local infectious diseases?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e166	Where did the representative come from? It is such that the regimes established by the government parties in close cooperation with the Progress Party do not distinguish between local and national measures for the protection of infectious diseases. All companies will be able to get into this. If your turnover falls by 30 pst. Compared to the corresponding month of the previous year, the scheme is included and can be compensated for 85 pst. of the unavoidable fixed costs. It applies regardless of whether it is a local or national decision. What the representative is talking about is the arrangement as it was in ours. Now we have learned from our system, and we have eliminated this discrimination between those who are nationally confined and those who are not. So I know that there are a lot of companies, employees, managers and owners who work every day to save their business, and it's not that the arrangements necessarily hit everyone. But we have good arrangements, there is the possibility of getting into that compensation scheme, and there is the possibility of postponing the payment of taxes and taxes until the compensation comes in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e173	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e178	It is quite amazing to hear a finance minister who does not acknowledge the problem of the direct impact of local infectious diseases measures being implemented. I'm asking, is there any difference in running a serving and serving place in the Drammen versus, for example, the Drammen? In the ski? Is that it? Of course it is, because in the Drama they have had to have intervention, but they do not get compensated for it. That's the problem. I ask: will the Minister of Finance acknowledge that there are challenges associated with local decisions that have a direct impact on businesses and that they are not covered by the compensation scheme proposed? Because there is a significant difference between where one actually has to make such local decisions, versus where one does not have to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e183	Of course – if strict local measures are in place, it obviously has consequences for businesses. But my point is that with the compensation system that now opens on 18 January, you get compensated. If you have a market drop of 30 pst. Compared to the corresponding month of the previous year, the scheme will be implemented and compensated up to 85 pst. of the fixed, unavoidable costs for November and December. Then it's not the only arrangement that we've set up. We've spent 130 billion. kr this year to contribute to job and business security, and the schemes have contributed to it. This is why Norway is among the world’s best placed countries in terms of both health and economics — so far. But we're in the middle of the crisis, and that's why we work every day to adapt and get to arrangements that make us save businesses and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e190	Hans Andreas Limi – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e195	In the negotiations with the government parties, the Progress Party has gained a significant impact in order to strengthen the general compensation system, both in terms of compensation requirements and the maximum amount. In addition, we have brought the government parties into a large tax reduction. In particular, this relates to goods placed on the market, which is important for strengthening Norwegian jobs. So it remains to be seen the effect of this when we get into a normal situation. Tax reductions are important now in the crisis, but may be primarily important for border trade, in order to limit it, when we are over in a more normal situation, and the borders are opened. So the effect remains to be seen. Maybe this is just a start. Then is my question to the Minister of Finance: is the government and the Minister of Finance prepared to do even more on the charging side if it proves necessary to strengthen employment in Norway and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e202	Let me first thank the representative Limi and the Progress Party for the constructive role they have played throughout this crisis, and not least in the budget for next year and the crisis package. There is no doubt that the Progress Party has had a significant impact and has also contributed to the improvement of the arrangements. This is about the compensation scheme, about the suspension of the payment of taxes, and I think that together we've got a lot, also for the yard industry along our coast. Then I do not think that the Progress Party and the government parties are entirely in agreement with regard to taxes on so-called frontier goods. I believe that we have now found a good compromise in the budget for next year, but there is also a balance between the level of fees compared to Sweden, health effects and also the state's revenues. So we're going to follow closely the impact this has on the border trade, and also on the health side, and then I expect that we will meet for new discussions on the level of charges in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e209	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e215	This is the perfect storm for the great capitalist environments that are able to get through this tough time. The only thing that stands in the way is a large number of people who are willing to do what is going to do, so that small and medium-sized enterprises get through this time. There's no such thing as the big number, it's too late. We're soon at the end of the period that the government itself has prescribed, we still don't have an arrangement in place, and it's too small, there's almost no – at least very few – spending one actually gets covered. In my home town, Tromsø, which is big on travel life, fishing industry and outdoors, it is no 50 pst. increase in bankruptcy. The wave's going to come, and we're only going to be far in the winter, which is going to be tough for many. Why does the government do so little to help small and medium-sized enterprises through the storm?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e222	You can certainly criticise the government too much, and I think you can always do things better, but to say that the government has done so little – so we've spent 130 billion dollars. kr so far in the crisis. It is easy to become quick-blind in the use of taxpayers' money. The arrangements we have are liberal, they are good, and they are good compared to the arrangements for other countries, among other things. the Nordics. I have close cooperation and dialogue with other countries, where we also learn from each other. We're going to learn from what we're doing ourselves, we're going to learn from how it hits, and we have to learn from other countries and the arrangements they have. I believe that we have done a lot just to help and support small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a set of different instruments, I have pointed out some of them: the compensation scheme, the possibility of postponing the payment of taxes and charges, the loan guarantee scheme with 90 pst. – and also a series of instruments through Innovation Norway, which will also help to hit small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e227	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e232	We know all of these systems, and it also does the business that is now the framework. They've looked at them, and what they told us was that some people don't get any coverage, some people just get 10 pst. Some people get 20 pst. Some are so lucky that they might get 40 pst. of their expenses, at the same time as they are incurred. A postponement is a postponement; one must anyway pay at some point in time. Then we're on the edge of what might be a bankruptcy with a lot of unemployment, which would be completely unnecessary if you had a large majority that was willing to do what's going to do to save healthy businesses through the storm we're now in. The government has not done this when you got such a weak tool in place. For example, why is this? the system we now have, weaker than the one we had before the summer – when we now go into an even tougher winter with an even tougher situation? There's nothing about pay compensation, nothing about day money. The question is still open: why does it support e.g. not our government party proposal, the SV proposal, that one should cover real expenses, i.e. business turnover, and the fall they've had there?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e237	That is because we believe this is a bad proposal. We have to recognise that in all these types of instruments there are different dilemmas. I believe that we should not cover absolutely all expenses, we should have arrangements that cover unavoidable fixed costs, while also facilitating companies to convert. If we look at the period from March until now, we had a sharp fall in March and April, and then we've had a growth in the Norwegian economy in mainland Norway from May through October. Now it's about zero growth, and it might take a while. The arrangements we have are well adapted to the situation we are now in. The compensation system that opens in the Brønn Island Health Registers on 18 January is better than what we had in long periods of the old compensation scheme. Then we also have to facilitate that companies get incentives for conversion where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e244	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e249	We have asked the government and the finance minister for several rounds why the revised compensation scheme for businesses could not be put in place sooner, and why it was so crucial to move it from the tax base to the Brønnøysund registers, with the delays and costs involved. In a previous reply to the Storting, the Minister of Finance has stressed that this has been about the ability and capacity of the tax haven to exercise control and recovery activities, and that the fact that the tax haven has had this responsibility will have significant consequences in the form of lost tax proceeds. It's serious. Nevertheless, the government and the Progress Party cut 20 million. kr from the tax base of the budget agreement, plus a cut of 6,7 million. kr in the ABE cut. The tax administration now has a portal that accepts changes in applications from March to August this year, and a portal that accepts statutory audits. Can the Council of State respond to why it could not have been used to accept new applications now? And how long would it take for the tax rate to roll it out and receive applications in the tax rate if we decided for it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e256	The representative refers to what I briefed the Stortinget about in June. The scheme we had through the tax haven worked well, it was targeted, but it was only meant to work for a few months. We extended it out of August. The tax base has used, continues to use and will continue to spend considerable resources on post-control of applications until next year. If you had made a new arrangement in the tax rate, it would also take time to get it back up, because it would be a different adjustment than we have now. It is the responsibility of the government to decide on the department to use. I think it would be irresponsible to go further with the tax rate. The main responsibility of the tax administration is to collect taxes, control taxes and fight tax crime. I also thought SV was concerned about that. My assessment, which is responsible for the tax liability, is that it is not correct. That's why we moved it to the Brønnøsund registers. The business system will be quite the same, and that must be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e261	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e266	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The Party of Progress has consistently pointed out that the government should have put in place effective measures to prevent import contamination before the sharp increase came in October. We have therefore proposed mandatory cross-border coronation testing. The government's alternative to this seems to be a quarantine hotel. But how effective is that system? The measure is intended to ensure good enforcement of quarantine for those people who do not have a suitable place to carry out the quarantine obligation. The government's rules now say that if you have a residence address in Norway and own your own home, you can take the quarantine there. But if you're renting a dwelling, or if you're going to borrow a suitable dwelling of the family you're going to visit, it doesn't hold. You are also not allowed to take quarantine with your girlfriend you came here to visit. Then you must first stay at a quarantine hotel for 10 days and pay 5000 kroner for it. It's incomprehensible to me, and it's too many. Not even the Public Health Institute supports the government's rules on quarantine hotels and states directly in the letter of consultation that the divorce that has arisen is not justified by the protection of infectious diseases. The Public Health Institute believes that the new rules on quarantine hotels were introduced too quickly and that the scheme has had a number of unintended consequences. The European Supervisory Body (ESA) has now contacted the Norwegian authorities to learn more about the quarantine scheme. Jusprofessor Graver has criticized the government for not even having permission to introduce this quarantine hotel scheme, and yesterday Prime Minister Erna Solberg pushed out and said she would clean up. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How does he himself think this is going?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e279	There is no doubt that the introduction of quarantine hotels has been important to reduce the risk of infection of imports. This is also confirmed by both the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate in the report to which the representative refers. As the representative is aware, this measure was introduced in a very short time, and it was also absolutely necessary because it was at the time Norway was at the beginning of the second wave of infection. In addition to the spread of infection that occurred in the country, there was a risk associated with import infection. Therefore, a number of measures were introduced following recommendations from health authorities — both the introduction of requirements for negative testing on arrival and the introduction of quarantine hotels to ensure better compliance with quarantine rules. Quarantine rules for those coming from high infection countries are one of the most important things we have to prevent the spread of infection. Testing will not be an alternative to quarantine. It's incredibly important that you're very aware of it. We have said that we are continuously open to adjust the rules relating to quarantine hotels. We also did that very quickly after the regulation was introduced, for example. We made exceptions for students in the Nordic region. We are now working on further adjustments to the rules. The Prime Minister pointed to some of the areas in which we are now working, including: the difference between ownership and rental. I understand that it may seem illogical that you cannot have the quarantine on visits, for example. with a girlfriend, but most of us don't have houses or apartments that are designed to allow us to let others live there and be able to keep a great distance, for example. with its own toilet, with its own ability to cook, etc. What's important in this situation is just to make sure that you have the opportunity to keep a good distance when you're in quarantine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e293	The quarantine hotel system undoubtedly creates confusion and frustration in many people, and many people simply don't see what the real difference is when you're in quarantine, as long as you're not in contact with others. I have recently received a number of enquiries from individuals who are frustrated as it approaches Christmas. For Hanne, a Norwegian citizen, rents an apartment in Norway and works in Oslo, it was anything but a pleasant affair to visit her children in Copenhagen, because it resulted in that when she returned to Norway, she had to stay at a quarantine hotel rather than carry out the quarantine in her own apartment. Manuela is now looking forward to seeing her parents in Germany. They have not met in ten months, but their parents are not allowed to carry out quarantine with their children. You have to stay at this quarantine hotel. Why has the Council of State stood firm for so long on this facility of quarantine hotels despite all the objections that have arisen along the way? Will the councils clean up this before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e302	As we have announced, we will make adjustments to the rules for quarantine quite quickly, but it is important for me to stress that it does not mean that all of the examples that the representative here draws up are necessarily taken care of by them. If you visit Norway, your home will not be a suitable quarantine facility. It is simply because you probably have to share the bathroom and the kitchen with them you are visiting. The few of us have houses that allow us to offer people on visits an opportunity to keep a good distance all the way through ten days. At that time, a quarantine hotel will be an important instrument to ensure that the requirements for quarantine can actually be complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e307	It opens for follow-up questions – Himanshu Gulati.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e312	Recently, many have traveled to Norway to spend Christmas time with their family and loved ones. They're all part of this skill that we're in right now, and they're also familiar with the fact that they have to go through the quarantine before they can move out in society. We have been able to read several questions about confusion and misinformation in the media, and that one message is given from both municipalities and public offices to persons before arrival, and that they are given a different message on arrival. My question to the Minister for Health is therefore: Does he feel confident that no one has been subject to quarantine in a place across the boundaries permitted by the rules? And what does he have to say to those who might have been subject to such quarantine?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e317	Norway has a lot of border crossing places, and that means that there are a lot of people now being mobilised to receive people. It is clear that once these rules have been introduced in a short time, questions and uncertainties may arise. It's quite obvious. But I feel that this is mainly understood and complied with. Then there have also been some errors, such as: this weekend there was a mistake that some people were ordered to take quarantine at the Gardermoen and were not allowed to fly on to the destination and take the quarantine there, as it is clear in the rules that you should have the opportunity to do. So unfortunately, there are also errors in a demanding time, and it is regrettable that this has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e324	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e329	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Workers and enterprises throughout Norway are hit hard by the pandemic. At the entrance to Christmas this year, there are an incredible number of people around Norway who carry a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty for the future and who wonder if they have a job to go to. It's corporations that are in danger of going bankrupt, it's people who are in danger of losing their life's work and being heavily indebted. It is partly about crisis packages that have not been good enough and have not come out quickly enough. It helps finely little with large packages of mass wrapping around, but with little content when what people need, is the money you can spend in the real world, to pay bills sometimes to get through the crisis with. Some of the most serious things about what happened in the fall are also all the questions that the government is pushing ahead with. Even I live in Rome and see how hard Romerike is hit by the crisis in aviation, both those who are unemployed and who worked at the Gardermoen, and in the form of all the ringings around. We've been waiting for months after month, but there's still no clarification of the aviation situation. One should come back in January. The compensation scheme for enterprises has been extended until February. One knows nothing about what will come after that time. There's not one extra penny in the budget. The same applies to the income insurance scheme for self-employed and freelancers. In the case of all those who are at risk of being cancelled because of the expiry of the period of leave, there has also been no provision for an extension. Why doesn't one provide a plan and long-term instead of giving people increased insecurity into Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e342	I fully share the description provided by the representative Gielsvik of uncertainty for companies, workers and communities. There is no doubt that there is an unusually demanding situation for many. It's because we're hit by a global pandemic and an unforeseeable economic crisis. The financial measures we are taking must be adapted to the disease prevention measures. In periods where we have strict measures of infection, the whole point is to keep the activity down. Then it's right to compensate the companies. But as the measures of infection become less extensive, as they remained in May, June, July and beyond the autumn, when economic growth also grew up, there is no point in compensating all the companies very wide. Then we have to facilitate growth, development and conversion. This is also the case now: how the situation is going to be over the winter is not quite easy to predict. That is why we are planning for different scenarios. We've started planning for the longest time what's going to happen after February. The reason why it didn't come into place in the first round is that we have to compare sales with sales, and in March 2021 it's not that easy to compare with sales in March 2020, because we were right in the middle of the crisis. These measures will last as long as the crisis lasts. That's the message. But the tools we use have to be adapted to the measures of infection. That is why there is very close cooperation between the Minister of Health, myself, the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We work closely together, the trade unions work closely together, precisely because the measures have to be taken. It is the measures of infection and health that come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e351	The problem is that the Minister of Finance does not provide predictability and security for what is to come. He only describes further problems related to how this can be solved, instead of being in the forefront and laying down a plan and ensuring predictability, and adding money to it in the budget, so that one sees that it is actually a will. This has been the problem over and over again. It's like what comes from new infection waves comes as a surprise, and one is not ready to take action when it does. Those who are self-employed and business owners need to know what they can plan for and know that we have a plan to take Norway through the crisis, and that at least one has schemes that last until the summer. As far as aviation is concerned, it is still not clear whether a compensation scheme is in place at all or what it may contain. Can the Minister of Finance at least clarify that there is going to be a compensation mechanism, what kind of scope it will have, and how it will help to save jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e358	In this crisis, we have put great emphasis on listening to the parties in Stortinget, but I am very pleased that we did not listen to the Central Party in the discussion on support for airlines. It would be a support that went out of the country and to private equity companies all over the world. So even in a crisis, you have to breathe with your stomach. Even in a crisis, you have to think a little bit further. What we're doing is we're planning from different scenarios. We plan to make things worse. Then we have measures in place, and the measures will last for as long as the crisis lasts. But it may also be possible that the measures of infection can be eased beyond the spring when the vaccines arrive. The time has come to facilitate activity and conversion. As I said, when looking at OECD assessments, Norway is among the most advanced countries in terms of both health and economics. So something right must have been done in crisis management so far in this pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e365	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e371	What the Centre Party has done is both to propose a compensation mechanism that can meet the Norwegian airlines and Norwegian domestic aviation, which is essential to bind a long-range country like Norway together, and to save the tens of thousands of jobs associated with the airlines, and the ring-fenced effects around it. We have voted in favour of this, but we have also been voted down on proposals to impose conditions attached to the compensation scheme. So the government parties and their supporting party The Progress Party has not been willing to participate in the compensation arrangement, nor has it been willing to participate in our proposals on terms and conditions. One has just sat and pushed it in front of him, time after time. A proposal has still not been submitted – and one will assess it in January. So, is there going to be any order from the government in this area at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e376	It may be a small exaggeration when the representative says that nothing has happened at all. Let me just remind you that funds have been allocated to both different credit schemes and not least scheduled purchases, where the Progress Party also contributed to the budget for 2021 to further increase in scheduled purchases for next year. It is an important measure, especially for people living in Norway, to ensure that the aircraft go when needed. It's important to our business. That is why we have placed great emphasis on the fact that there should be funds for scheduled purchases, and that is where we have found good solutions together with the Progress Party. Then we've said that we're going to get back to the aviation situation in the New Year, and I think the government is making good use of that time, precisely because we have to have measures that work. It's not that just because you say it's Norwegian, it works in Norway. We have to be sure that the instruments actually work for the purpose we intend to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e383	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e388	We have a government that has a lot of people from First House and other communication agencies, so that the marketing and sale of the packages is not on. The problem is that there's something with a small font that makes what's real to the companies not the same thing as the sale that's going on. The center part was happy when we got 250 million in place. kr to a scheme for the seasonal holdings. The government has created terms. It turned out to be 250 million. And then $18 million. kr used, and the government will now withdraw the rest of the money. For those who arrange trips, the tour operators, it was promised 500 million. kr. Now the government will take back 305 of the millions. It's a good business policy to spend money on businesses, but one has a little bit of a font that means that when companies are going to use the money, they're going to grab back and put it back in the safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e393	I don't know if there's been any small writing. It has at least been large enough for me to read it. The packages I believe have been good, they have been rich in content, and the parties in Stortinget have contributed. I believe that this has been important. Especially in the first part of the crisis, it was a very important point in itself that government and greatness were united, and we also listened and adapted the arrangements to the various proposals that came from parties in the Stortinget, also from the Central Party. The centre party has played an important role in many of the negotiations that have taken place in Stortinget. But there is also no point in itself to spend as much money as possible. One advice I received from the LO manager, which was not so difficult to follow, was: make sure you don't put the treasury on the pavement, so it's just to supply it. We must also make sure in a crisis that we make demands on the arrangements, that there are controls on the schemes. And then there are some arrangements that have been used a lot, and others that haven't been used so much of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e402	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e407	What worries us in the Center Party quite strongly now towards Christmas, are all the perms. There are over 60,000 people who are on leave, and many people are starting to get to the maximum limit for how long they can be on leave. We had a similar debate before the summer, where the government was very uncertain about what to do, if you were to expand from six to twelve months, while the majority of the parties on the Storting were clear about it. Then the government came in August and said they would extend the leave to 12 months. Now we have a new kind of uncertainty. The pandemic's not over. We're going to have a hotel business afterwards, people are going back to jobs. Then I hope, even though we had rounds for the last week, that the government is starting to think about and can give quite clear signals that you are extending the period of leave until the summer, so it gives security to all the families that are now feeling anxious. Will the government quickly signal whether or not they will extend the permit rules, or is it entirely inappropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e416	Let me at least say that it's not completely out of date, but I think it's a typical example where it's important to think through – I kept saying – both advantages and disadvantages. I think we're all going to recognise that there are some dilemmas also with the length of the permitting arrangements. We extended the leavement scheme to 52 weeks because it was a strong desire primarily from the social partners, with whom we have a very close cooperation, but also from the Stortinget, to which we listened. So it's true that many people have been on leave for one year when we get to March. I understand that's creating uncertainty, but it's also a challenge when you've been out of work for one whole year, so we have to think about whether it's the right tool to give a further postponement, or whether there are other types of instruments that will be better for that group. We are open to that discussion, and then we will listen to different parties, especially the social partners, but we need to discuss different instruments and be open to the dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e423	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e428	I sincerely believe that I am pleased with that answer, because the signaling of a more open attitude now is perceived as an important signal. Then I also understand Sanner's arguments that permitting, especially in a normal situation, has some negative effects, but our assessment is that the situation is so special that you can't base the same thinking on this extraordinary crisis. Then we had another system that came into place thanks to the work here on Stortinget, and it was the system for self-employed workers, where an income insurance for self-employed people was made. It is people who are often at the start of larger businesses, entrepreneurs who take risks. We created an income insurance scheme that has helped a lot since March. Now the scheme is announced that it will be phased out when February is over, and that it will be reduced to 60 pst. January/February grant. Will the government have the same open attitude to it, that you can extend it as well, as is the case with permits?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e435	I think it is wise that in a crisis we are facing, not least in crisis management, we recognise both dilemmas and are open to new assessments. We have also seen that in the course of this crisis, there is no fascist response, but through good dialogue, and not least by listening to different professional environments, you can find quite accurate solutions. My point when I said what I did about the permitting scheme was to be very clear that we need a discussion here, and you also have to see that it is both beneficial and disadvantageous. As regards the self-employed scheme, I know that some parties want it to be a permanent solution. We don't think it should be, precisely because if you don't pay in to popularism, you shouldn't have the same rights either. It's a system that has significant weaknesses. That's been the reason we've been detained. Now we have extended it to February, and those who are in that group also have access to some other schemes, both within the culture and within the compensation scheme that comes. We have not yet taken a final decision on how it should be after February, but the plan is that it should be phased out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e445	Hans Andreas Limi – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e450	I want to get back to aviation. The finance minister said that even in a crisis you have to breathe with your stomach, and I want to add that you have to use your head. During the autumn many beautiful promises have been made to both the company Norwegian and aviation in general. Then I think there is a need to clarify a misunderstanding, because according to the information we get from aviation, i.e. from the industry itself, the general compensation scheme will not meet them, because the airlines have a completely different cost structure. They do not have rentals, renovations and electricity costs that a store or similar may have. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that it is correct, that the general compensation scheme does not meet with aviation, and also to confirm that it is now working with a separate compensation scheme, which is in line with what the Progress Party wants, and which we have asked the government to return to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e459	It is true that the compensation system we had in ours and we now have is not adapted to aviation. That is why we have also signaled that we need to assess the situation of aviation. We have put in place something in good cooperation with the Progress Party, and we also have an agreement that we should come back to this issue in the new year, so that work is well under way. Let me just add that I fully agree that in addition to breathing with my stomach, it's important to also use my head.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e464	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e469	We think of ourselves as a similar people and a similar society, but the reality is that the differences in Norway are greater than what we like to think about, and development is going in the wrong direction and is reinforced by the economic crisis that we are facing today. We now see that we have the same wealth inequality as in the United Kingdom, we have greater inequality in wealth than countries like Spain and France. When the government presented a big difference notification in 2019, the paper release showed that the differences are increasing. It's mainly because the richest take away the rest of us. Nevertheless, the government then tried to produce inequality as just a question of poverty. Of course, poverty is part of the inequality picture, but it's still just part of the picture. If you really want to reduce poverty, you also have to tackle the inequalities in society with them at the top. When the richest get a greater share of income and wealth in Norway, they also increase their political power. Although there is a minority in Norway who pay taxes on wealth, the government has spent billions lowering it, despite the fact that it is not possible to demonstrate that it has had a positive impact on the economy as a whole. There is also much greater political attention to wealth taxes than to child welfare, which we know is crucial to reducing child poverty. So the debate on inequality is also a debate on democracy. Does the Minister of Finance think it is a problem that there will be more and more billionaires in Norway and that wealth will be concentrated on ever fewer hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e480	It's not a problem that we have a lot of private capital in Norway. We must be glad that it is not just state capital. It is also an important question when we talk about power distribution and democracy, that we have a balance between a rich state and a strong private sector. But I agree that it is a problem if it becomes too few. I'm busy spreading power. Therefore, we have arranged that employees can also purchase discounted shares in their own company and then become partners in their own company and business. That, I believe, is an important measure. Otherwise to the issue of inequality, and whether it's primarily about poverty: I think it's a lot about education. Because we know that if we don't manage to give everyone a good foundation through education and that more people complete high school, the differences will increase. For this reason, perhaps the most important measure to preserve a society with small differences and a high level of confidence that we have a good education system, that we make sure that students complete higher education to an even greater extent, that they get a letter that allows you to go out of work, or that you have the opportunity to continue studying and thereby get out of work. So it's one of the most important means of preserving a society with small differences, as well as many other measures taken by the government, which improved child welfare and targeted schemes so that everyone can participate in kindergarten and school leisure. So I know that SV is very concerned about property taxes, but I think it's not the most important tool to keep small differences. On the contrary, it is possible to participate and contribute to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e491	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Finance. Obviously, if the government's strategy for spreading power, for spreading wealth across several hands, is that workers can buy shares, and that you have better education, that policy has failed. Because the wealth is concentrated on fewer and fewer hands, and the differences are increasing. The tax lists for 2019 came yesterday, and they also show that the very richest ones are leaving. The 1 pst. The richest pull away, 1 pst. One percent of the wealthiest goes away, and that's how you can keep going. The wealth is collected on ever fewer hands, and it is inherited. In the tax lists, almost 70 of the 100 richest heirs are. It is becoming harder and harder in Norway to get to the top on their own. We'll have family dynasties. Of the 100 richest, 2 out of 3 live in Oslo, Asker or Bærum. Those who leave are heirs, they are men, they live in the Oslo area, and they live in the big cities. Why doesn't the government do anything to counteract this enormous concentration of power and wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e500	Now it's not just in the area that you find the ones that are the highest on this list. We saw that on the list yesterday; it also applies to district municipalities, among others. related to salmon farming and other. And we should be glad to have strong capital environments in different places in our country. The list that came yesterday was for 2019, that is, before the crisis. Experience with other crises is that the differences are reduced, simply because the stock exchange value falls. So if the only parameter of small differences is that you can bring down the wealth of those who have the most, it's an economic crisis tool -- to take the reasoning completely. The inheritance fee is not the answer to this either, because what we saw when we had an inheritance fee was that the richest were able to organize around the inheritance fee. The inheritance fee was mostly passed on to people. That is why the government parties, and I think several others, believe that it is wrong to reintroduce an inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e509	It opens for follow-up questions – Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e514	It's interesting how the government always talks about the fact that an exchange fall in economic crisis is going to reduce the differences. One would like to be most concerned about the very people who have big stock assets, in an economic crisis. But we see that it is those who have the least, who are hit the hardest financially, it is not just those who now have wealth on the stock exchange – the stock exchange is going on brilliantly for the time being. It is those with low-wage workers who are hit hardest and healthfully by the crisis we are facing. They're the ones who've been licensed, the ones who've lost their job. Then we've got a final verdict on Erna Solberg's tax reforms on the way into what's going to be an election year. It shows that the right-hand rhetoric that the tax cuts carried out by the government help the Nordics the most, is just customs. The tax havens have mainly gone to people with wealth, especially those with great wealth, and most people have received significantly less money compared to the large tax gifts to them with the most. Why has the government given priority to giving the country's richest the greatest tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e523	That's not right. If you look at the tax relief we've given, a significant share has gone down on income taxes. A family today has 14 000 kroner less in taxes than if the red-green tax level had been continued. We have prioritised a reduction in corporate tax, which is important for businesses, in order to have a competitive business. We've prioritised a reduction in income tax, so it'll pay off to work. And yes, we have also reduced the tax on working capital, because we believe that we should build up under Norwegian ownership in Norwegian companies all over the country. Then it is not that there are only taxes that are important for business; there are many instruments: research, development, infrastructure — a set of instruments that are important for good growth in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e531	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e536	My question goes to the Minister of Health. Now we all put down a great effort to stop the infection in society from spreading, and people sacrifice a lot. Before March, a plane came to the country with infected ski tourism on its way home. In the summer we opened up for vacation trips without the test stations being ready when people came home, and in the autumn there was contamination into the country with workers who came here to work. According to the Health Directorate, four out of five foreign passengers have passed the test station at Gardermoen since mid-August, and figures from the Public Health Institute in September show that only 40 pst. complied with the quarantine rules. If the imports increase again over Christmas, ordinary people's efforts could have been in vain. Last week we heard Assistant Health Director Nakstad on News 18. He pointed out that it is important to take hold now before the situation arises. In January, many of those who live abroad, but who work in Norway, come back after celebrating Christmas. There is a large growth in the aircraft programme from 15 December to 15 January. SAS alone has established over 50 routes in connection with New Year's, and it's naive to think that people won't travel at Christmas. Nakstad said that testing at the border does not solve all the problems, but will help those who are contagious as they cross the border, get caught and do not infect others. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Why will the government not introduce mandatory testing at major border crossings and airports, in combination with the quarantine rules developed by health authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e547	The short answer to that is that it is because we have not received any advice from the Health Directorate that it has been a suitable tool, until now. We've also said that that position and that assessment can change, both in the directorate and in the government, based on the development of both new knowledge and new test methods. Now, Mr Stortinget will also address this issue in connection with a draft representative tomorrow, so we will have a good opportunity to come back to that debate then. In the case of further preparations for some to travel during Christmas, there is also a work going on. In addition to the restrictions we have made on travel abroad, we are also working on further measures to reach those who have to travel by Christmas. This is the general government advice that you should avoid unnecessary travel abroad at this time, so this is not the time to travel abroad to take a Christmas holiday. But we know that many people live in Norway who have their whole family abroad. Many have been in Norway for a long time to work and will return to their family, and will return to Norway after Christmas. Therefore, additional measures will also be taken to deal with it. The government has no performance associated with not having a test at the border, on the contrary. But we're dependent on the fact that it's possible to implement, and that it's a reasonable use of the total test resources that we have. It hasn't been this time, according to the directorate's assessment, and then this can change as the situation changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e558	I am very relieved that the Council of State does not reject mandatory testing. In fact, the Health Directorate was for mandatory testing of all quarantine hotel users, even if the government did not introduce it. The argument, however, that these are too intrusive measures, I also do not hear the Council of State repeating. It also makes me optimistic, because it is the same as the health authorities had against demands for negative testing at the foreign border, and then – wisely – it changed when the infection of imports turned out to be as big a problem as it has been this autumn. So I just want to encourage again: isn't it true that we're a little bit more ahead of this round? Now we are in the middle of wave two, and there are many who are concerned that in January there may be a wave of infection three. Is it no longer in line with the opinions of Deputy Health Director Nakstad to put in place stronger measures now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e563	Yes, and that's why the government is in front of these questions, and we're going to be this time as well. As I said, we also have a considerable work going on on on the needs we have for action, also against those who are going to travel by Christmas, and there will be further action in that area in advance. So it's a question of what the representative is doing in compulsory testing, because I agree with the representative's party leader, who said very clearly in the party leader's debate in August that there should be a high limit to requiring health tests of people. When a person uses the words ‘mandatory testing’, he must also think about what the consequences will be if a person then does not want to test himself. If the Workers' Party believes that one then e.g. will be rejected at the border, although you have a legitimate stay in Norway, I believe that it will be going far too far, going far beyond something that will be proportionate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e570	It opens for follow-up questions – Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e575	When four out of five go past the test station, I don't think we're going to spend the most energy discussing what mandatory testing is. Penalties have also not been addressed by the Workers' Party. That several tests must be the most important thing. Today it's just a sign and an invitation to test yourself if you feel like it. But I have a slightly different follow-up question, and it's about the thousands of foreign workers who are now crossing the border in Northern Ireland to work during winter fishing. There is a concern that police and health authorities are not allowed to share information. It's critically important. These workers come every year to contribute to fishing in Lofoten, and if the health authorities and the police at the border are not able to share information, we will also have greater challenges both in terms of catching up infection and in terms of effective detection of infection. So the question is, how do you want to interact with your colleagues in government to improve this flow of information and better manage infectious diseases?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e584	I understand that the representative may not want a further discussion about what is mandatory testing, but for me, who might have introduced mandatory testing, it is the whole core of the discussion, because we cannot introduce mandatory testing without knowing what mandatory testing means. If we are to have mandatory testing – which is not voluntary testing, as we have today, today, we have voluntary testing – it must actually be a sanction, because if not testing is mandatory. So I think that for tomorrow's debate maybe the Workers' Party should think a little bit through what they actually mean by compulsory testing, because that will be the whole core of the question. Yes, we also work closely with the other departments and the various state agencies in preparing for those who come to Norway in winter fishing and loot fishing. These included: a meeting yesterday where all those concerned were present and reviewed their plans related to it, and further action will also be taken there to prepare for that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e591	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e596	It's good to hear that you're working on improving the situation in the north. Health services are more vulnerable in the north. It'll be more dramatic if the rough-fly 3,000 workers who get into the winter fishing have infected with them, so that's pretty important. For the discussion on compulsory testing: it should now go to the Chamber tomorrow, during the examination of a proposal from the Progress Party. It will be the task of the Council of State, if the Storting believes that we should introduce mandatory testing, to design it. That the Workers' Party does not have clear opinions on how a sanction regime should work – it is not the Labour Party's job or the Stortinget's job, it is the Minister of Health's job. If there are clear reservations in this way, it must come to light in the debate. I am pleased that the Minister of Health was so clearly not opposed to this, so I am looking forward to a fruitful debate. What is critical is that the measures must be taken now...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e610	There are other things that are critical, President. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e615	There was a slightly frightened president here – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e620	And time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e625	The President shall give the representative Kjerkol time to design his question – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e630	It was nice. The fact that it is intrusive has already been done by introducing quarantine hotels, which is the most intrusive thing we have. How mandatory testing is to be carried out, I expect the government to contribute if the bulk of the population turns tomorrow. Then it is good to hear that at least the Minister of Health did not reject it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e637	To be quite clear, I think it would be very unwise if the Stortinget decided to pass mandatory testing tomorrow without having submitted an assessment of what it has to do with e.g.: the second test capacity. Because it's not that it's completely immaterial where we use the test capacity in Norway. It must be used where it produces the most effect. We don't have infinite testing capacity, because there are people carrying out these tests, and these people are mainly employed in the municipalities where the border stations are. I see, for example: that part of the major cities provides for mandatory testing. Well, there are very few airports in Norway that are located in the big cities. Most of the airports in Norway are located in the neighbouring municipalities of the major cities, and they are the ones that will have to carry out this test in the event. Therefore, one here should also receive good professional assessments from the Health Directorate, where they not only assess the infectious health professional issues based on assessments by the Public Health Institute, but also assess the consequences for health care and the capacity for other important tasks and balance them against each other. The Storting should also wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e644	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e649	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Food. There are many companies that are struggling heavily in Norway. The state spends billions of dollars on compensation schemes and other measures. At the same time, the Minister for Fisheries has applications on his table which can trigger tens of millions of dollars in investment. This can lead to increased employment, and it can provide money in the cash box for companies that are struggling. One of the applications made by the Minister for Fisheries on his table is from Hofseth Aqua on Sunnmøre. This is an indication permit for rearing salmon and trout related to the Atlantic Park in Ålesund and Storfjorden. This is investment in the order of 70-80 million. kr, which will provide loving work to local entrepreneurs. It's very positive for the Atlantic Park, which means a lot to Ålesund and the area up there. It's an important attraction. It is also a park that became Norway’s first marine witness centre in 2019. It is an important offer for children and young people to provide knowledge that ensures the recruitment of the aquaculture industry, which is one of the industries that Norway will live on in the future. The Atlantic Park has worn heavily in the Corona era, and this can also contribute to providing them with fixed extra income. In fact, if the permit is to come quickly, this project can be completed for the coming tourist season. The application was submitted for the first time on 19 September 2018, and my question is: When is the Council of State going to examine the application from Hofseth Aqua?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e662	First, I have to agree very much with Mr Listhaug that the Atlantic Park is a very good place. I've been there myself and was impressed by what they've done, and how they can show our marine life underwater in a great way. It's also very popular, it's approx. 100000 visitors in a so-called normal year. That's impressive, and that particular point is also a significant point against assessments to be made when applying for a viewing permit. It's really about getting relationships around Norwegian salmon and Norwegian seafood to as much as possible, so we have a lot of applications lying around – I think we have about. ten different applications for visas located in the department. Of course, I can't say here and now when this application will be dealt with, but we have a process in the department where the applications are processed in order after they come in, and then we also have other applications, about what are called development permits. There we have it. 30 cases, with a complicated procedure, where there are applications on many hundreds of pages, etc. So the sum of all this, including that this summer we were sued by the farming industry in the production area that has been reduced in terms of the environment, means that we have not been dealt with the application, even if the application was sent to the Fisheries Directorate in 2018. And then we'll get it to review with us, so it might have been in the department for six to twelve months, for everything I know.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e669	The Atlantic Park has 140 000 visitors in a normal year, and of course there are people from both the local environment, from the rest of the country and from abroad, so there's an important attraction in our area. During the Korona crisis, virtually all departments have speeded up, whether it be crisis packages or other types of handling of cases, simply because you see that the country is in crisis, and that we need to do things faster. When there are then ten different applications for viewing permits, and also many others, my question is whether it is not now time for the Ministry of Fisheries to get the steam up, so that we can secure good projects, get started and get to invest. Because it has to be more reasonable to actually start investing, and that companies have to spend money and jobs on entrepreneurs, than to run and spend a lot of government dollars on compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e676	I very much agree that one of the most important things we do now is to start new investments. It is incredibly important to start building and developing new jobs in the private sector, and we are very focused on that. Last week we started a complaint about a development permit in South Troms, in Gratenge, which can trigger up to half a billion dollars in investments, and hopefully with local ring effects. So I very much agree with that, and we are dealing with the issues on an ongoing basis. I can assure you – and I am really impressed – that the department and my office have been working late and early through the coronary crisis. It is an extraordinary situation and also extraordinary tasks that need to be resolved, so we are going to try to deal with this specific matter as soon as possible, and also the other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e682	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e687	We dealt with the quota message in ours, and we have discussed it a lot in this room as well. Most of it was what the government wanted when it comes to resource allocation. The fleet was changed in the fleet of the coastal fleet, and in addition, an open group was moved to the top, i.e. the quota allocation to the open group was taken before the allocation between the coastal fleet and the sea fleet was made – in line with the government's proposal. In retrospect, there has been a great deal of uncertainty about the implications of the notification, and it is now in the hands of the Fisheries Directorate when it sends out a letter of consultation proposing that the coastal fleet compensate the fleet for the change in the resource allocation made in the quota notification. I think that's very special, and that's a very unfair way of working. There's a lot of uncertainty, and there's a lot of people asking what more is going to change now. I have tried to ask the Minister for Fisheries up to several times whether he is behind this hearing, and what is the background for it. The answer has been that he has either not read the letter or has not received the criticism that has come. So I'm trying to ask again: why have you created this kind of uncertainty after the quota notification process, and do the Council agree that the jet fleet should be compensated by the coastal fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e696	The representative Myrseth says that she is trying to ask again, and then I get to say that I am trying to answer again. We processed the quota notification before the summer, in May. The purpose of the notification of allowances is to simplify and streamline and make the allowance system more flexible, and the lead is a year-long investigation process and its own NoU. The proposals promoted in Stortinget and the quota notification were adopted, including: a request decision in addition, where ‘The government requests that the allocation of allowances between the fleet groups is not substantially altered’. If you want to take the allowances to the open group from the top, you get a distribution effect. So the consultation process, to which I believe the representative is critical, is a completely traditional annual consultation process where you have to look at next year's fishing. We have followed up the Storting's request decision that the allocation between the fleet groups does not change significantly. Then you have to ask the industry for input and see if they have suggestions on how to compensate them. We have now received all the answers to the hearing. The process has been summarised in the Fisheries Directorate and will be transmitted to the Ministry quite soon, so that we can make a decision before the end of the year – which is done every year in relation to next year’s regulation of fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e707	When you talk about having used a long process on this, it's very special that you haven't figured out the consequences of your own proposals. Because it was also discussed here in the Chamber – the proposals and their impact had to be assessed after the decisions taken in the Stortinget. It's a very special way to treat an industry. I don't know if you treat other industries the same way. When a process has been used for years to answer these questions, why has this issue not been discussed in all days, once the proposals adopted have been implemented? It was the government's proposal that got an impact on resource allocation here in Stortinget. It was not the Storting's proposal; it was the government's. I think this should be done before. And to say that this is a process every year: No, it refers to the proposals in the quota notification, which we don't deal with every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e716	Every year there is a large process in the industry where consultation is held on how to regulate next year's fisheries. There are a lot of details, so I'm not going to go into that minefield, and of course there's also a lot of conflicting interests. As a result, there may occasionally be a little noise in the fisheries sector. My answer is that with the consultation that has now been held with the Directorate for Fisheries, we are following up a specific request decision which was promoted at the main hall and adopted in the context of the processing of the quota notification, where the government is asked not to substantially change the allocation of quotas between fleet groups. I just have to say that all the proposals in the quota notification are sufficiently clear, but that quota notification would have some distributive effects if the allowances to the open group were to be taken from the top. So we have followed up both the quota notification and the request decision that was adopted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e725	It opens for follow-up questions – Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e730	The Minister for Fisheries does not have to save on the details for my part. I understand the fisheries policy, I do. But I wonder if there are other proposals that were adopted, which you're thinking of going back on, for example. When you change the beam path, to quite loud protests – for a reason. Are you going to go back to the dynamic jet path, for example, which also has a bearing on sea-coastal distribution? What you've done now is you've said that the smallest part, i.e. the coastal fleet, has to compensate for the very largest due to decisions you've made in the quota notification, which, of course, have many proposals in it as before, which are pre-dispensing the greatest. The Riksrevision also indicates that the large ones have increased, and now the government continues that trend. But the question is, are you going to make other types of changes based on what was adopted in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e737	I have some problems understanding why the representative still does not understand that I have responded to some of the things she is asking about. It is up to the government to follow up what has been decided upon in Stortinget. The quota notification has been verified successfully. However, when there was a request from the Storting that the government should ensure that the allocation of quotas between fleet groups does not change significantly, that is exactly what we have followed up on what has now been out for consultation by the Fisheries Directorate. Every year, the Fisheries Directorate has such a consultation on how to regulate next year’s fisheries, and it is also about how to allocate resources. So I'd say we're kind of lucky in Norway that has a profitable fishing industry. It consists largely of small and large family businesses along our coast. It is a great potential for further development of this industry, and that is our task, and there I will also look at the opposition and make sure that we create the most stable and predictable framework conditions for that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e744	The last oral Question Time of the year is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e758	There's going to be a change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list in the salapp. The change was as follows: Question 5, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth to the Minister for Fisheries and Maritime Food, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e770	‘Many in North Norway wish to invest in rail. Both the Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen are important for people and businesses. Ofotway has had an important role in the north as the environmentally friendly, electrified transport year out of the national section for 200,000 tonnes of fresh fish. It's fish for $12. krones. In the 2017 national transport plan, it is foreseen that, in the first period of NTP, capacity on the track should be increased by building a cross-rail at Narvik station and that a double track on the track should be consistent. What is the status of the work on impact assessment for Ofotbanen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e777	I thank you for this important question. I very much agree with the representative Lyngedal that the Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen are important transport years for people and business, considering both goods and passenger transport, local, regional and international. Ofot is Norway's main freight line measured in tonnes transported per kilometre. Ore traffic is the leading factor in the demand for capacity on the road, and the further need for the development of the track depends on the development of the demand for ore. Freight transport on Ofotbanen via Sweden is also important for the transport of combustibles to North Norway and the international passenger train connection to Sweden from Narvik. For Ofotbanen, it is important to see actions on the Swedish and Norwegian sides in a context. In the ongoing distribution work, the Directorate-General for Railways, Transport and Railway NOR is working together to develop traffic forecasts and identify capacity needs on the Ofot Railway. The need for capacity generated by this work will determine the need for action on the road infrastructure. It is also planned for the conversion and extension of both Narvik Terminal and Narvik Station. At Narvik station there is a need for increased capacity, and at Narvik terminal there is a need for measures to facilitate combined traffic. Despite significant increases in the railways in recent years, there has been so far no room for these projects. This is due to the large increase in the cost of some ongoing railway projects. In the national transport plan 2022-2023, presented in the spring of 2021, the government will propose the further priority of improvements in rail supply, including the Ofot Railway. Summary: We are too fully engaged in this work. We see the important work done by the Directorate of Railways, the Transport Agency and the Bane NOR now. The extension planned for the Narvik terminal and Narvik station should then be an absolute priority. Technically, we could have done that in 2021, but we lack the budget to get it done. Although we have an increase in the rail budget of over 6 billion. In the budget for 2021, we have used the funds for ongoing work and the large overruns that have been there. But there are very good measures that are clear, just linked to the Nordlandsbanen and Ofotbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e790	Thank you for a thorough answer. The NTP of 2017 had a specific investment in freight by rail – a historical investment. The basic documents for that NTP showed that building double tracks on Ofotban was the most profitable socio-economic activity, not only in Norway but also in the Nordic region, as an infrastructure project. We therefore call for the impact assessment and the cross-track. This is the only electrified export route for fresh fish from North Norway. The alternative is a train, and if you are going from Hadsel to Narvik or from Senja to Narvik, it is easier to use a Norwegian train than if you are going all the way to Poland and France. Norwegian car trains then become a little less competitive. We now see that we don't get these investments, and now six trains are being rejected for next year. Does the Minister understand that rail enthusiasts in the north feel that our projects are being down-prioritized in relation to the major projects in the south?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e803	We have a huge investment on the railways, but there are still many projects – the debt in both the north and the south – that have been put out in time because of the cost excesses we have had. I think there are many who are enthusiastic about the railways around Stor-Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger as well, and we see that there are also measures that have actually been put on hold. But I would like to say that the very measures relating to Narvik combined traffic terminal, Narvik station and capacity measures on existing roads are very good measures. There is no doubt that they are very far ahead in line with our assessments towards NTP. We come with the National Transport Plan in March, so we land this in January/February. These are good measures for Ofotbanen which should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e808	Getting goods on the road, improving the climate and the environment and improving transport safety are some of the main objectives of the national transport plan. The roads we have in the north are not built for those car combinations that go there today. It's going to be very important with the expansion that we're going to get from E10, which is the ‘fishing route’ over some. At this time of year there is snow, it is smooth, and many heaves to drive because of the car combinations. Many are particularly afraid of the many foreign car combinations. The Transport Economics Institute today says that the accident risk for heavy goods vehicles is decreasing, but still foreign trucks have twice as high accident risk compared to Norwegians. When we know that saying no to six freight trains until next year leads to 144 more wagon trains in the week between North Norway and the market, this must be one of the more low-hanging projects to invest in to meet all the good purposes of the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e815	I thought the representative Lyngedal argued very well, both when it comes to how important it is that we get more goods from road to road, and when it applies to some of the measures related to Ofot Railway. I mention Narvik Terminal and Narvik Station, but also capacity measures on the existing track are important. We know how important this is for road safety and the environmental and climate impact. Although we have had a record increase in rail investment, we have not found room for these projects yet, but they are ready. There's nothing technical -- it's actually the 2021 resources it depends on. We're going to look at this now when we're going to work with NTP. This is a good project, and I see really optimistic about it, because there are low-hanging fruits, as the representative Lyngedal so clearly said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e823	‘In the Question Time on 25 November, the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide said that trade organisation is important and that what they have done for the construction of Norway has an incredible value, and he announced that he would contact Wizz Air and be clear about what is the Norwegian model. On 3 December, the Minister for Industry and Transport met Wizz Air. Can the Council of State tell what was mentioned in the meeting on trade organisation and the Norwegian model, and what will he do next?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e830	I would like to thank you for the question and for the opportunity to comment on this particular issue. In the meeting that the Minister of Industry and I had with Wizz Air on 3 December, the employees were correcting one of several issues that were discussed. I begin by clarifying the central value of employee and employer cooperation in Norway, and how the right to form trade unions and the right to be organised is central to the Norwegian community. To this, the director of Wizz Air replied, stressing that it is not up to the leadership of a company to decide whether or not to add. He made it clear that the freedom of organisation is a constitutional right for everyone added, and it is up to each and every employee to use this right. This is not the same as saying that Wizz Air must be a party to a collective agreement, but as I perceive the conversation, it shows that the company takes basic rules seriously. In practice, I believe that the value of the right to organise for those who work for Wizz Air in Norway could depend on what connection this company will have to Norway. On questions from me, the director explained that the company will direct recruitment to the local labour market also in Norway, i.e. to Norwegian workers, after a start-up period with posted workers from other countries, and after the pandemic has waned and the demand has probably met. The director argued that there is reason to believe that a larger proportion of the personnel flying domestically in Norway will be people living in Norway. When a large proportion of the staff are resident in Norway and are subject to Norwegian courts, there is also reason to believe that the Norwegian working life model is of greater significance for this company. But when it's said, it's still too early to say how this will develop, and what meaning it has for Wizz Air. It will also depend on the response of the flying personnel themselves. But I can assure you that the department will follow this closely, and that we were clear in this meeting just to tell you what the Norwegian model is, and what values we have in our working life, and I think that is also important for a company that has a different culture. So I think the meeting was positive, but I want to say that the effect of what a government council says to such a company, not to be overestimated, so it's very important that we follow these developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e843	When the company was established in Norway, the manager of the company said: ‘We are an air carrier without trade unions.’ There are also a number of examples of the fact that the company has actively opposed professional organisation, including: an employee who wanted to join a trade union, lost the job, along with 18 others. They had to take it all the way to the Supreme Court before they got a pass and got the job back in the company. We have also seen how pilots in Wizz Air can be cancelled in the day because they are not engaged as employees, but as self-employed rather than as employees. What I think people out there are wondering is whether the Council of State can give a guarantee that those of those who are going to work on Wizz Air's flights internally in Norway who want to do so will have the right to organise themselves intact even in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e855	I want to do what I can to make sure that exactly that right applies to all of us, and that should also be done in that type of company. So let's see what becomes Wizz Air's offer, and what they actually do in Norway. I think that's a little early to say. So far, the activity of this company has not been any great success in Norway. I want to use the space for action I have, to ensure that it is the type of actors that have a working life that is – I would say – in accordance with the degree of expectations we have in Norway, I will raise. So we know that competition law and the EEA Agreement are leading the way, but I think it is important that we use the space we have, in line with what Moxnes here points to. It's our job, and I'll look for that room of action when I look at, among other things. What are we going to do for aviation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e862	A part of that space of action is already being used by elected representatives at local and regional level, who say that in their county or in their municipality they are not going to use Wizz Air, because it is an actor who has proven to be anti-union, and who you think can undermine the Norwegian model. It may not be directly under Hareide's portfolio, but we can still ask whether he has a view of whether the state should tell its businesses that you want to avoid using Wizz Air as a service owner, because we want to support them seriously. It is also part of the action space that the state has if you want to support organisation and work for a more tidy working life. What does the Council of State think of such a kind of grip on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e869	This is about what real space of action we have. It was given a very clear political signal from the Prime Minister when she was just standing on this pulpit and was asked if she wanted to travel with Wizz Air. Then she said that it was not her wish, because the company did not act in line with the kind of values that made her want to travel with them. There is something I fully agree with the Prime Minister. A real boycott will probably be another tool from the state of Norway, and it's a very different issue, but I think there's a significant responsibility for the individual on that very kind of question. There are also possibilities, for example: through public contracts, which ensure that we have a standard. It is a debated tool among the trade unions, but there are possibilities, and it is important that we look for it, so that we get a decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e879	‘The Government claims that the ABE reform has contributed to the real growth of universities and colleges. It's worth asking whether this is a growth that benefits the entire university and higher education sector. Can the Council of State explain the proportion of what the government designates as a real growth in 2021, which are earmarked funds and application-based funds, respectively, for which the institutions must compete?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e886	I thank you for the question. Universities and higher education institutions receive their annual framework allocation of Chapter 260, called Universities and Higher Education, in the State budget. That's this chapter we're looking at when we're calculating the real growth of universities and colleges. None of these means are application-based. They are distributed directly to universities and higher education institutions. To put it briefly on the calculation of real growth: in 2020, universities and colleges will have 38.9 billion. kr over Chapter 260. This includes changes proposed by the government for the re-balancing of the State budget for 2020. In 2021, the government proposes to allocate 40.7 billion. kr to universities and higher education institutions under the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. The total real growth in the allocation to universities and colleges of Chapter 260 from 2020 to 2021 is 1,4 pst, or 557 million. kr. We have then based an estimate of price and salary growth from 2020 to 2021 on 3.2 pst. The actual real growth depends on what the price and salary increase is actually going to be in 2021. This budget increase for universities and colleges includes several elements. It includes stepping up bets from previous years, such as: to new coals of students for increased study capacity from previous years. In addition, there will be entirely new investments in 2021, but also reductions such as the ABE reform. In 2021, the increase in the budget comes primarily from the continuation and escalation of previously adopted study places and recruitment positions and the increase in results-based payoff. In addition to the framework allocation to universities and higher education institutions above Chapter 260, funds are allocated to other budget chapters for application-based schemes. I stress that these application-based funds are not included in the framework funding of universities and colleges. They are therefore not included in the real growth estimate, but are also included. This includes, for example: the system for upgrading and modernising university and higher education buildings and the application-based schemes, inter alia. flexible training provision in Diku. Although the ABE reform also includes universities and colleges, the reality is that this government has ensured that universities and higher education institutions as a whole have had a solid real growth over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e903	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Then it's at least that significant parts of this real growth are given in the form of earmarked appropriations, and then it's essentially study places, I think. At least it would be misleading to say that these are funds that strengthen the sector as such. Never has the significance of research been clearer than under this pandemic. Norway, as a nation, is dependent on research, also to solve other societal challenges. Business and society will need knowledge development to succeed in the future. Nevertheless, the government is negotiating an urgent commitment to knowledge and competence with this reconciliation. The research budget has been reduced and the ABE cuts have increased. How does the Council of State feel that this will contribute to the necessary transformation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e912	Let me start by saying that my answer gives me reason to think that the increases since 2013 are 6.9 billion. in real terms, for universities and colleges in Chapter 260, this majority has given priority to this sector since 2013. So it's like for research we have a lot of tools. It is also important to remember that we have a long-term research plan that has been stepped up year after year and that has its last year in 2021 before a new long-term plan comes. It has been followed up, and the appropriations for research have increased below the coronary apnea in addition to the growth that has been through all of these, so far, eight state budgets. It is true that the agreement took more of the provision of the Norwegian Research Council. Of course, it's something other than cutting research. These are funds set aside by the Research Council, which would be transferred to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e919	Thanks for the answer now, too. Back to it with places of study: There was a record search for higher education in the fall. That was 10 pst. increase compared to the previous year. Increased unemployment causes more people to apply to universities and colleges. In addition, more continuing training will be needed. This growth comes to the height of an increasing curve that has been over several years. The working party believes that there is a need for a type of more permanent upgrading of higher education. But if you go back before the coronary crisis, the government would have proposed only 250 new higher education places. The question is, is this the level at which the government is going to move forward? They clearly say in the state budget that they are not going to increase this beyond the crisis, so it is going to be downgraded after the crisis is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e928	First of all, I'm a little bit insecure, but I think 250 is a wrong number. I think we have approx. 1 000 places of study from previously allocated up to the 4000 already there, i.e. 5,000 additional places of study in 2021. The second is that when this crisis hit and we readjusted with 4,000 places of study, you could really imagine adjusting by even more. The only challenge was that the crisis came in March. This meant that we had to do something very unfamiliar also for the sector, which makes it difficult for the sector, that we had to get into the revised national budget with several places of study the same harvest. Therefore, we had to have close dialogue with the sector about what they were actually able to escalate. The second thing the government did was to be very clear that those places were going to study where we know we're going to need knowledge and expertise in the years to come, for example. nursing, teacher training, etc. So the question is how to deal with this in the future. I believe no matter what majority that is in the Storting, and who is in government, you're going to look at it in the annual budgets. There is always a balance between several places of study and e.g. quality or study funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e940	‘The Government, in its response to the central party budgetary questions, has notified that the new CO 2 regulatory framework allows several industrial companies to lose their entire CO 2 compensation. This applies, inter alia, to: INEOS Bamble and INEOS Raffnes, INOvyN Porsgrund, Rana Gruber, Südvaranger, Yara Glomfjord and Yara Porsgrund. In addition, several parts of their compensation may be lost. Will the Council of States enter new rounds with the EU on this matter in order to include several activities in the scheme and to ensure greater support for each activity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e953	The CO 2 compensation scheme is and has been a high priority for this government. We believe it is important to avoid industry placing its investment outside Europe as a result of increased electricity costs resulting from a higher price of CO 2 and as a consequence of the EU's quota system. Industry has an important role to play in the development of viable products and solutions necessary for the green shift, both in Norway, in the EU and in an international perspective. We have therefore worked actively against the Commission and up against the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in order to protect Norwegian interests in this matter. It is precisely ESA that will establish the CO 2 compensation guidelines for the EFTA countries. In footnote 11 of the EU Guidelines, due to the Norwegian hydropower, ESA provided an action room with respect to EFTA countries which does not correspond to the EU Member States. The government is now working to ensure that ESA takes account of Norway's special water power situation and that the hydropower will have an impact both on the carbon factor and on the assessment of which individual activities are considered carbon leakage exposure when the final regulation is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e971	I thank you for your answer. I notice that it is part of the same thing that is being answered now, which also came in a written reply to Stortinget last week, after I had submitted my question. It's good that there's a process, and that one continues to work, but still the question is what becomes the concrete consequence for the companies. For, as also pointed out by the Council of State, this is an incredibly important mechanism for the activities covered by the CO 2 compensation scheme. On 30 October of this year, in an answer to budgetary questions from us, the government then writes that, as a consequence, the following Norwegian businesses seem to be losing their entire way in line with the new guidelines – and it is listed INEOS Bamble, INEOS Rafnes, INOvyN Porsgrund, Rana Gruber, Sydvaranger, Yara Glomfjord and Yara Porsgrund, and in addition that INOVYN Rafnes and Borregaard may lose parts of their compensation. Is there still the situation, or is there room here for these businesses to have further CO 2 compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e988	I get the impression that these are preliminary assessments based on such legislation now seems to be possible, but the legislation is not final. So we still don't know with certainty, until our work up against ESA is done, and ESA's work is done, what activities will be covered, and what the carbon factor will be. But the list taken by the representative is, to a large extent, right in view of what companies seem to be able to fall in whole or in part, with the exception of Yara Porsground, as far as I'm aware. In addition, there are 11 enterprises that will be able to join the scheme, which are not there at present, which are also a number of important industrial enterprises. So this is a code where you have to look at, professionally, who is exposed to carbon leakage. It is very important for the regulation to be fair and fair. We have had some professional disagreements with the European Union about that. I feel that we've had an impact on a larger room of action, and now it's ESA that's going to define the final code.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e997	What is important for these companies is what will be the support they receive under the new rules that will start to apply from next year. That's why it's incredibly important to clarify it, and of course a worker targeted, and I perceived the Council of State there that a continued employee is focused on getting the companies on this list, within the rules. Or is it that there are some businesses that it is clear will not be able to get within the rules? And the next question is: Will the government, within the scope of action given to Norway then, make sure to propose that a person take full advantage of the scope of action given to Norway, both in terms of the type of activity, including, for example, a user of the action space relating to nickel production, and that a person makes maximum use of how much support each enterprise can receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e1004	The government already announced in the industry message in 2017 that we want to continue with CO 2 compensation for the industry even after 2020. With the new guidelines, that is a good thing, and that is good. Then it is the right of the representative to say that there are two important questions here. The only thing is which industries and which individual enterprises are covered, and that is very important, and then it is also important how much support can be provided. Obviously, then the carbon factor is one thing that's very important in this. There we found that in the original draft solution here, the Commission did not take enough into account the effects we see in the Nordic power market. For the Norwegian power price, not only is it dependent on power production in Norway, because we are part of a common market. We're experiencing an understanding of our vision, and now at least there's a possibility that ESA can determine this in a more correct way, as we think it should be. I don't think I should comment on single companies, because what's important to us is that there should be fair competition conditions for our companies in general, and there we have some input to ESA, which we've given, and we hope for a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e1025	This question has been withdrawn. That being the case, it is no. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-09.ana.ud470e1041	There is no record. The current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
