ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e28	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e33	On behalf of the representatives of Jon Engen-Helgheim, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Erlend Wiborg, Hans Andreas Limi, Silje Heimdal, Tor André Johnsen, Bård Hoksrud, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to wind up the county to cut red tape and bring the services closer to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e38	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e43	On behalf of the representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Geir Pollestad, Sandra Borch and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on the instruments to implement Norway's main climate contribution – the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e64	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Trine Skei Grande, Jan Tore Sanner and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e73	Let me first congratulate Mr Sanner on a new and important task. After twelve years in the Finance Committee and several Council posts, he has all the arrangements to give us good answers to what we had to ask about. Just before the turn of the year, there was a new report from CICERO. It is about the Nordics' attitudes, norms and behaviors related to climate change. Now it is not certain that the Minister of Finance has rocked to read that report, and I will not disagree with him. But this report says something about what different groups in society feel about climate change, about climate policy and about ownership of responsibility. In the report, there is a particular important variable as to whether a person is concerned about climate change and is willing to change his own behaviour, and that is income. It turns out that those in the highest income groups, especially those with a personal annual income of over DKK 800000, are less concerned, less willing to change their own behaviour and less willing to support policy initiatives to prevent climate change. At the same time, it's one of the most emitting groups. They can afford to consume more, and they like to. Now it is that climate policy is at home with the climate minister, but this is about distribution, and it is the Minister of Finance's table. My question is: What does the Minister of Finance intend to do to ensure that they are the ones with the highest incomes that have to do most to make us happy with climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e84	Let me first thank you for a good and important question, because there is no doubt that the climate challenge is the biggest challenge we face. This is why the government has ambitious targets for both what to do in Norway and what to do with the EU. I agree with the representative that we must all contribute. This means that each one must take personal responsibility. It's a lot about attitude. We are actively using the charging policy. In Norway, 80 pst. of the emissions the price, while in the world the total is opposite: 80 pst. the emissions are not priced. This means that it will be worthwhile to act environmentally friendly, and it will cost to pollute. It also applies on a personal level by costing more to use a car that pollutes, and cheaper to choose environmentally friendly. It is also important that we take action at national level. Let me just show you that over the past six to seven years, we have had a large-scale development of public transport. In 2019 there were hundreds of millions more collective trips than it was in 2013. It shows that citizens take responsibility and move to public transport. It also contributes to the overall reduction of emissions. So I agree that the discussion about distribution is also an important discussion. I am clearly of the opinion that those who have the most must also contribute the most to climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e95	I'm glad we're some people who have the most have to contribute the most. It's a little bit unclear after this answer, however, how the Council of State has planned to do it, because we have to cut emissions, and we have to do it in a fair way, and right now we see that the climate change can have both a social and a geographical impact page. We've seen in the last few years that if normal families experience an unreasonable financial burden attached to the climate change, we get toll riots, and we get ferry riots. In other countries, a set of yellow vests and insurrections at increased fuel prices and charges have occurred. Although climate policy is under another Council of State, the distribution policy under the Minister of Finance is the effect of fiscal policy is under the Minister of Finance. I have to ask again: how will the Minister of Finance ensure that the climate change perspective has a distribution perspective, i.e. that those who have the most pay the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e100	With regard to tolls and tolls, this government has helped to reduce tolls compared to what would be the option. There is also an opportunity for the representative to influence his colleagues, for example. in Oslo, helping to stop the tolling and using the tools provided by the government. As far as the distribution policy is concerned, there are different aspects to it. The most important thing we can do to maintain a society of small differences is to ensure that people get into work. Now unemployment is at the lowest level in the last ten years – unemployment is 2.2 p.m., and 50,000 more have come to work in the last year. That's the most important thing we can do to contribute to small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e107	There will be follow-up questions – first Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e112	The ten percent richest in the country accounts for almost three times as high emissions as the ten percent poorest. There are two researchers from the University of Oslo who joined in 2016. It is from an article published in the «Ecological Economics» and it is also confirmed by the latest survey of transport economics. The study shows that when it comes to the choice of means of transport, the richest of them are the most impoverished. It is quite understandable that many people experience it as grossly unfair that the wealthiest in society can only continue to live their lives as before – unimpaired by the increase in carbon taxes and fuel prices every year. As we know, frames increase the fees of those who have low income, hardest. The government responded on the basis of getting into work, but here, people are at work, who have low incomes. The question is how the government will prevent it from being only those with low incomes who have to set limits on themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e119	We must all take responsibility for contributing to lower emissions. That means we need to implement measures nationally. We do that, not least by investing heavily in public transport, which has contributed to hundreds of millions more collective trips every year. We have to do it through charging policies by making it more expensive to pollute and cheaper to act environmentally friendly. Interestingly, this issue comes from the Workers' Party, which is intended to cooperate with parties that want even higher tolls and even higher charges – which will have exactly the negative impact the representative addresses. I am concerned that those who have the most should contribute the most. I'm concerned that we're going to keep a society of small differences, and the most important thing we can do to ensure it is actually to keep unemployment down and make sure that more people get into work. And it goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e128	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e133	In our alternative state budget, the Labour Party suggested that those who buy the most expensive electric cars, i.e. cars that cost more than NOK 600 000, have to pay VAT on the excess amount. As we see it, there's no reason just to keep throwing money at people who are strong. It will increase the differences in our society. We were voted down. This proposal would amount to almost half a billion dollars on the state budget. It means that one should rather be used to build charging stations in the districts and by building a barricade, so that it could become a more realistic option for more people to buy an electric car. We see that in California, in the United States, there has been a change in the electric car regime by linking subsidies to the income of buyers, so that subsidies are owed to them with the lowest income. So far, the Right has said no to this kind of social initiative in Norway, which would make the climate change more social. Why do they say no to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e141	I think we need to be open to discuss more proposals. There are several reasons for this: One is, as the representative points out, that the instruments must ensure that everyone contributes. It's important that it doesn't become a biased distribution, so it's those that have the least, that have the heaviest scales. All have to contribute to reducing climate change emissions. The second is that we also need to ensure a sustainable car tax system. We've used powerful tools to make a transition from fossil cars to electric cars. It's worked. We see that we have strong growth over the years using an electric car. It contributes to the reduction of emissions in the passenger transport sector. However, we have also said that we need to ensure a sustainable car tax system, and that means that we need to discuss different instruments in the years ahead towards 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e150	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e155	The problem with the proposals to the Council of State is that his means of action are greatly increasing the differences between people. It is fine that he is open to discuss more tools, but I believe we actually need to get the tools on the table. Some of the problem today is that it is those with low incomes who are left with the majority of the bill when it comes to increased climate tax – whether it applies to air passenger charges, rush time charges or increased ferry prices when electricity ferries are to be financed. It poses some challenges that those who have the least to travel with and who have no other choice either – because they have to take the ferry or run past that boom in order to pick up and bring into the nursery – are those who have to bear the greatest demands when the climate measures are to be financed. With this background, I also have to ask why the government continues to lead a tax policy that gives a hundred times more in tax cuts to those who tend the most, compared to those who have the lowest wages. It would also mean something in the climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e162	As far as tax policy is concerned, it aims to pay off. That's why we've reduced the tax on work. Tax policy shall contribute to the return on investment in Norwegian jobs. I believe it is unfair when the Workers' Party wants to increase the tax on Norwegian-owned jobs and maintain that foreigners who own jobs in Norway should avoid the taxes on wealth. We've reduced corporate tax over the year. It helps make investing in new jobs more profitable. The most important tool to ensure small differences is that people have a job to go to. It is to ensure low unemployment, and unemployment is now the lowest in ten years. We see that more people come to work. Since the end of 2015, 140,000 more have come to work. We're increasing the employment rate. It helps more people to bear our common well-being, and it also helps to maintain a society of small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e169	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e174	Here I stand with an eight-page reply letter from Siv Jensen explaining all the fees she made as Minister of Finance. In summary, she has increased the excise duties and charges in Norway by 6.3 million. kr from she took over as Minister of Finance until now. There is no finance minister ever who has had a higher level of fees than the finance minister, Siv Jensen. The central party fundamentally disagrees with that policy. The hardest hit is those who have the lowest income, the hardest hit those who are concerned about the electricity bill – when today’s government has increased the electricity charge by 36 pst. It's going to hit a lot harder a person who's going to make $300,000 than a person who's going to make $2 million. kr. Will Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner follow in the footsteps of Minister of Finance Siv Jensen and further increase the fees, or will Siv Jensen be the one who is enthroned at the top with the highest level of fees in Norway ever?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e181	Here, the representative Vedum gallantly jumps over the fact that the Senterpartiet proposes a significantly higher level of taxation and charges. It is not the case with higher taxes that no one has to pay them. It's also a bill that's being sent to the residents, it's a bill that's being sent to companies all over the country. If we look at the government's tax policy, half of the personal tax benefits have come to people who earn less than NOK 600 000. A normal family with full-time income pays about NOK 9 000 less in taxes than they did in 2013 – NOK 9000 less in taxes than when the party of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum put in government. If we look at the same minimum pensioners, they've increased their pension by $12,000, or $1,000 per month. Then I got a question from the representative, Hadia Tajik, who was thinking that people would pay more, contribute more, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This means that if the representative Vedum is to cooperate with the Workers' Party, there will be no lower taxes, but higher taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e190	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e195	The level of fees in Norway when the Senterpartiet cooperated with the Workerspartiet last, was 6.3 billion. kr lower, according to Siv Jensen and the government Jan Tore Sanner is part of. There was a lower level of charges as it is now. The centre party was the only party in its alternative budget before Christmas that reduced the fees. We reduced the fees by 3.8 billion. kr just because we saw how it was distributive. For some remarkable reason, the government will also not have its own tax return and see how it turns out to be distributive. It is quite obvious that if you increase the fees, it affects much harder those who have lower and medium incomes than those who have high incomes. I want to challenge the electricity charges directly. Current charges have increased by 36 pst. while Jan Tore Sanner has been in government. Does Sanner think that they should be further increased, or should they be put down? The clear perception of the centre party is that they should be put down, because there is a great deal of intervention in people’s everyday lives when electricity prices rise – and not least when the taxes to the state go up when it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e202	The representative of Vedum knows very well that tax questions are something we take a position on in the budget. It would be totally irresponsible if I, as a fresh finance minister, had started to decide on individual charges in good time before the budget was to be presented. We've put the price of electricity in one of the last budgets, but what matters to people is the power price. It's the power price that matters, and if we look at the evolution of the power price, it's now showing a decline. The representative Vedum cannot ignore the fact that he is promoting his alternative budgets with a significantly higher level of taxation than the bourgeois parties have adopted in the Stortinget. Taxes must also be paid by someone. It's not just the fees that matter to people's everyday lives, it also does the taxes you pay on, among other things. income. We have reduced the taxes for a normal family of approx. 9 000 kroner – 9 000 kroner less this year than they paid in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e207	Kristoffer Robin Haug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e213	Common to red and blue parties is that they have so far failed to take the steps needed to save the climate and the future of our children, and that they do not trust that people actually want an ambitious policy that prioritises our common future. We in the Green Party will create a society that both distributes the goods fairly and takes care of our livelihoods. This is fully possible, but new measures are needed. What does the Council of State think about introducing some sort of climate reward to the people, also called carbon tax for distribution, which can take care of both the environment and the distribution at the same time, where the taxes on petrol, diesel, air travel, etc. is significantly increased, while money is re-allocated to people in a geographically and socially fair way, in order to stimulate climate-friendly choices in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e222	It's interesting to observe that I now have three questions that go in a very different direction. While Hadia Tajik wants a redistribution of today's fee level, the Senter Party wants a lower fee level, and the Green Party is an engine to increase the fees for people most. We already price 80 pst. of emissions in Norway. We were the country that used CO 2 taxes, and we have also increased CO 2 taxes. I don't think it's a good idea to add an additional charge to the top of it all, which is going to be dragged in first, and then distributed. We are actively using the charging policy. We do that because it's going to pay off acting environmentally friendly, it's going to cost us pollution. I am pleased that there seems to be quite broad consensus, perhaps with the exception of the Centre Party, that we should have both ambitious climate targets and active instruments that can bring down greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e237	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e242	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and this is about the operation that the government carried out without the consent of the Advance Party, to bring a family from Syria to Norway, of which the mother was a member of the IS. This is an operation that has created a lot of debate, and the Progress Party believes it is quite natural that a lot of questions are asked after such an operation. We're not talking about any operation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself has said that this was an operation that took place in a high-risk area and that it has been very difficult to implement. You can easily understand that. This whole decision is based on a single statement, which the government has referred to as an allegedly seriously ill five-year-old. When the government carries out operations that are so controversial and that lead to a party leaving the government, it is natural that the public also learns about the government making that decision on the right or wrong basis. It has something to do with people making an assessment of whether they have confidence in what the government decides. My question is whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs will categorize this operation as a dangerous operation, and what criteria the government is using to initiate an operation that could endanger Norwegian personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e253	This is a matter that was a difficult dilemma for the government. It is a matter in which none of the parties had a wish to contribute to the return of their mother, but Mother was also intended for participation in two terrorist organisations and was arrested when she arrived on Norwegian soil. It now follows the usual criminal law trail. When we evaluated all of these sides, there were many dilemmas that arose. One was, of course, using Norwegian personnel to carry out this type of action. We had experience at the time of bringing home the five orphans, and it was an experience that made us realize that there was a lot of risk. It was also one of the reasons why we could not now send our own personnel into the camp, but depended on cooperation with those who managed the camp. At the same time came, as the representative is well known, the Turkish intervention in Syria, which also made ground conditions even more unwieldy, and there was also some reason why this took longer than intended, simply because many of those who were our partners, were busy on another team and could not assist in the same way that they had done when we brought home the five orphans. The safety of our staff, whether there are staff in the U.D. or staff in the collaborative services, will always stand in the high seat, and there are assessments made both by them on the ground and of course by the superiors here at home. It'll always be governing our assessments. We have not taken any risk that we thought was irresponsible, then we would not carry it out, but we have of course made assessments of when it was possible to carry this out, and under what conditions. We always take that into account, just like other countries, even in these kind of difficult consular matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e266	Thanks for the answer. The progress party has tried to ask questions because we believe it is timely to know whether this decision was taken on the right or wrong basis – whether it turns out that the information was based on, correct or incorrect. But we record that the government doesn't want to disclose anything, neither confirm nor cancel anything about health information at the overall level, although it's quite common in other and much less serious cases. Then we just have to work on the assumption that the government made such a serious decision based on an assumption. I want to ask the Foreign Minister if she understands that it creates speculation, and that there are questions and debates, if the government makes such a serious decision based on an assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e275	As the representative is well-known, and as I have also explained in the bodies of Storting and in answers to questions both from the representative and from others, we are very often in those situations when we deal with difficult consular matters – and so many other things too – that we never have the complete picture of information, or that we feel that we always have enough information. The challenge is that we still have to make a decision. We who sit and control, have to make the assessments based on the fact that we never have the perfect basis, and evaluate the risk we're willing to take into account what the situation actually is. There have been difficult discussions and balances, but at the end of the day, we fell upon, without the support of the Advance Party, the risk of the child’s illness outweighed the desire not to help her get back. Of course, we follow the common rules on professional secrecy. We have no information today about the child's health status, neither should we, nor do we have it in similar cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e282	There will be follow-up questions – first Jon Engen-Helgheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e287	In the first answer, and so far also in the second, the Foreign Minister confirms that it was nobody's wish to bring the mother, i.e. the IS member, back to Norway, and it is also known from before that there has been a common desire among all to help the child. So the Progress Party is also happy that the children can get help. But it is serious to bring a suspected terrorist back to Norway. That's why it's important to get these answers. Another thing I wonder about then is: Was there any specific offer given to the family where the child could receive the necessary health care in the area or in Norway without mother coming to Norway? Is it the mother who has set the premise and pushed forward the solution she wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e294	I noticed that the representative from Engen-Helgheim said very clearly that he was pleased that the children had received help. I think we can agree that the assessment themes that were very difficult, at last, are about whether it was most important not to help mother come home, or most importantly to bring the children home. That's where our views split, and that's a perfectly legitimate discussion. For us, it was most important that we could help the children. Mother was already targeted for possible association with two terrorist organisations and is now following the legal path in the usual way. It has been known from the media that Mother has not wanted to send the children away, and it has also been known that we have offered health care in camp. I have also given a thorough account of this to the bodies of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e301	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e307	It's a ferry uprising along the coast, and I understand that, because the communities are totally dependent on the ferries. High ferry prices make everyday life more difficult and demanding. One of the main reasons for increased prices is that the government and the Stortinget have set the goal of having more environmentally friendly ferries. The cost estimate for this after the state has contributed is 468 million. kr annually in increased costs. What's kind of interesting is that we've asked Monica Mæland a question earlier: how much money does the government spend on consulting services? Then we got a comprehensive answer, and on one line it said that in the first eleven months last year the state of Norway and the government of Solberg spent 687 million. kr on public relations and advisory services and organisational advisory services. Over 700 million. kr annually at the PR agency, PR consultants and organisational advisors – that is a huge amount. Yesterday we saw that the U.S. Council of Hareide traveled to More and Romesdal. He said he was there to listen – he did not have so many steps, but he would listen and hear. Then I have a free advice – I’m not going to take such Listhaug prizes as when she was in First House and took several thousand dollars per advice, I’m going to give a free advice: Take a decision in the government where you say no, we’re not going to use more of that kind of consulting services, use PR agencies more, spend millions more on it, but rather save that money. If the number for Meland was right, you can save approx. 700 million. rather spend the money to bring down the ferry prices and take the full cost of making the country's ferries environmentally friendly. The council is free. Does Sanner want to take it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e316	Social violence The Vedum actually combines two issues. One is the natural reactions that come from people along the coast in terms of increased ferry prices. It is a significant burden both for commuters and for business. The main responsibility for these journeys and the rates lies with the county councils, and there is a responsibility of the Central Party in very many counties after the elections last year. But these are also issues that we have to discuss in government and big business. That is why both the new Minister of Transport and the new Minister of District and Digitalisation were out there, having dialogue with and listened to people, businesses and state politicians yesterday, and they got more issues that we are going to discuss further. But I would like to stress the responsibility of the county councils and the Central Party regionally to find solutions. Then I've also seen in the Central Party's alternative budgets that you look at the use of consulting services like the area you're going to cut. It is then necessary to be aware of what these consulting services are actually used for. They are used to plan, inter alia: the development of roads across the country, the development of railways and new ICT projects, so that if the Centre were to achieve its rather dramatic cut in the use of consultancy services, either major road, rail and new ICT solutions would stop or even more staff would have to be employed in the country. The use of consulting services may be sensible, but I agree that it should be for concrete purposes. Road and rail planning is a good purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e323	I notice that the Council of State gets very engaged in defending the government's use of consulting services. I particularly pointed to one type of consulting services in the question that the Council of State Monica Mæland answered here in the Stortinget. She replied that in the first eleven months of last year the state, Norway and the government had spent 687 million. kr on consultancy services dealing with communication consultancy and organisational development. So it's not about road development or legal services; it's about communication, public relations agencies, all that spin and the game that's around the PR business. If you look at the full-year effect, it'll be over 700 million. kr. That's huge amount of money. Just to illustrate how much it is: the total ticket revenue for all the boats along our coast was, according to the SSB, 606 million. kr. So the Norwegian state, i.e. the government, is spending more on PR services and organisational development than the total ticket revenue for fast boats and similar along our coasts. Does the Council of State honestly believe that this is a good priority, or will he do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e332	I do not know the specific figures to which the representative Schlagsvold Vedum refers, but if I heard correctly, it was also mentioned that some of these were used for organisational development. It is quite clear that there is a need for organisational development in the country. We're going to have a modern public sector that serves the people, the users and the business community. That means that we need to have continuous development also of the government's organisation and services. But I agree with the representative's concern about the use of different communication services. We have good communications departments in the departments. It's for the ministry, because we also have a responsibility for external communication. But with regard to the use of different PR agencies, I agree that moderation should be demonstrated by the state. It shall be used when necessary but not in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e339	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e344	The centre party believes it is a very negative development that public relations agencies are becoming more and more extensive – they are getting a larger and larger customer base – and that government councils and state secretaries are moving between public relations agencies and the government apparatus. It's negative because the policy then becomes more money-driven. The policy must be governed by the rule of the people; it is the people who are our sponsors. Now, when there's a big ferry uprising along the coast due to higher prices, State Council Sanner's job and my job is to make priorities. We fucking about. 10 pst. in the state consultancy in our alternative state budget. That would be approximately. 1 billion. kr, which we could use to bring down the ferry costs, and that would have enabled the state to take the entire bill by getting environmentally friendly ferries along the coast. Isn't that a good priority? My last call to the Council of State, Sanner, is: dare to take this, dare to cut the use of consulting services, dare to cut the use of PR agencies – use the money to bring down holiday prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e353	I think I can promise the representative of the Battle of Vedum that there will be tough priorities in the future, because we are facing a situation where oil revenues will gradually decline, and where there will be tougher and clearer priorities in the budgets. So the representative doesn't have to worry that there won't be priorities. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, indicates that the Centre Party has generally cut in the consultancy. Then you have to be aware of the consequences. A general cut in the consultancy will mean poorer planning of transport projects. It is also important for the future use of money that transport projects are well planned, that money is controlled and that they are well implemented. It requires a willingness to spend some money on consulting services. The alternative is to hire even more people in the country. I think that is a bad solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e360	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e365	After all, this government has done both things: one has taken care of employing more people in the state – in a few years, there were 2,000 more employees in the Directorates – while one uses consulting services and PR counselling over a low shoe. It is quite right that a user consulting services to plan projects. Many of the projects – such as the municipal reform, which the Council of State Sanner knows very well – are planned against the will of people. The police reform took the police away from people. On top of that, a PR consultant has to explain why services to people in Norway have not improved. Transport was mentioned: In the case of transport, Bane uses NOR – at the top of its 50 communication staff, among others. 12 with management positions – also Creuna for brand construction and design work. Does the Council of State really believe that there is a reasonable use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e372	It is probably a question that has to be asked to the Minister for Transport, who is responsible for those departments. However, if we look at the reforms to which the representative refers, the reality is that New Veiger is helping to reduce costs and that we are building a considerably more road for the same means. It is a completely necessary and proper reform. We also see that the launch of rail competition contributes to a reduction in costs. It's good for the people, it's good for the Norwegian community. In the case of the municipal reform, changes affecting nearly 120 municipalities were implemented. About 100 of them were through voluntary community mergers. So the picture that the representative is trying to create, that this was a reform that was implemented against people's will, is not right. On the contrary, we now see that the new municipalities have been well received, and that they provide a basis for better services for citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e381	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e387	A number of municipalities around Norway are combined with coercion, against the will of people and local people. One has implemented a regional reform where one had a referendum in Finnmark there 87 p.m. black no. Anyway, one is running on. In the Week there were people and people elected in all three counties against. Nevertheless, the government pushes it through and arranges for a new county house to be built in Sanner's own neighbourhood, in Sandvika, for 1 billion. kr. It's not using public money in a good way, nor is it listening to people. Why does the Council of State think this is a sensible use of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e392	We're moving pretty far away from the main question. It may be my fault, since I got a little engaged when we talked about municipal reform. [[Laughter]] I believe that a community reform is absolutely necessary and correct, and the reason for this is that it is about the services that citizens should receive. Looking at developments in the future, individual municipalities are where there will be one working age for each pensioner. I think that is a challenge, because we are also responsible for providing people with good services, in the care of the elderly, children who need child protection – the most vulnerable among us. There is a need for strong trade unions in the municipalities. And when reference is made to the use of coercion: well, it is the Storting that has taken the decision. It is the Stortinget who has taken the decision both in terms of regional reform and in terms of municipal reform, and the Stortinget is elected by the people, the highest democratic body we have. I am absolutely convinced that the municipal reform will continue, precisely because it is necessary to ensure good services for the inhabitants close to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e397	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e402	We like to think of Norway as a ‘like country’, a country where there is a short way between the boss and the worker. But Norway is not as similar as it once was. The diversity of power and wealth in Norway is increasing, and it is especially those with the highest income who have stung from the rest of society. At the same time, with the lowest income, they have had a smaller share of cake. When we look at wealth, the number of numbers is even clearer. Differences in wealth in Norway are now on the level of the United Kingdom and higher than in countries such as France, Italy and Spain. Today, the richest tenth in Norway controls more than half of all wealth in Norway, and the richest thousandth owns 10 pst. of the property. I think these numbers are very serious. Not only is it negative for society as inequalities grow, but when wealth and wealth in Norway accumulate on ever fewer hands, power also accumulates on fewer hands. A billionaire may influence the policies pursued in Norway in ways that are completely different from those that a caregiver can. We in SV have now addressed for two major periods the increased inequality with the predecessors of the Council of State, Siv Jensen. Time and time again, we only got wool when we tried to ask Siv Jensen if the differences are increasing. Finally, we got a recognition of it, but only when the majority of the population agreed that the government had to make an entire big message about the topic. So I start easily: does the Minister of Finance agree that the differences in power and wealth are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e411	I believe it is important that we ensure and maintain that there are small differences in the country. I think it's important, and I think it's important that we spread power – I'm a member of power distribution. But then the question is, what are the instruments that contribute to the spread of power? I think it means something that you have local owners along the coast, private owners who invest in jobs. If SV were to come up with its policy, namely to increase the tax on Norwegian ownership all the time, it would – I believe – help to reduce the distribution of power. Because that means you've also spread power all over the country. So I'm of the opinion that what over time will contribute to a society with both small differences and the spread of power is school and education, and that we ensure that youth completes and remains high school. I'm worried about a development where there's still one in four who doesn't finish high school after five years. The fact that young people have an education and can get into work is important in order to ensure a high level of employment, but also in order to ensure the distribution of power. So here's a lot of different tools. I believe that SV is looking too blind on tax policy. I also believe that taxation and tax policy have a meaning; it does, but it is not the only tool to ensure small differences in a country and secure the spread of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e418	In fact, I don't think I got an answer to the question of the differences in power and wealth in Norway is increasing. Then I would recommend the Council of State to read the big message that was submitted from the government on that topic. Also SV is concerned with the spread of power, and that's why we're so concerned about the fact that the wealthiest subtracts from, that Norway's wealth is collected on fewer hands. Because, as Stein Rokkan said, ‘Voice counts, but resources decide’. We've seen countless examples of that. The richest gain more power over us. It occurs directly, through ownership of the business community, but also politically, through, for example: funding of lobby groups and think tanks. That's how it's made a story that we're taxing the poor super-rich people here in Norway, even though it's rather the way that most people consistently have a higher tax level on their income than the super-rich ones. Nevertheless, the Right will give further priority to tax cuts. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is right to give priority to large tax cuts, which will lead to some of the richest in Norway paying no tax at all, rather than strengthening for example. The hospital economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e425	This is one of the areas where SV and Right obviously disagree. I think we have to create the values before we can use them. If we are to facilitate value creation across the country, and if we are to facilitate more jobs, we also need to have a low level of taxes and taxes. We've reduced taxes by about 25 billion. NOK over six years. Everyone has benefited, through reduced income taxes and by reducing the tax on Norwegian ownership and also company taxes. If we look at the report from the SSB that asked the question about the tax system has become less redistributive, it says that it has become moderately less redistributive, but it also says that the property tax has little effect on redistribution. It shows the SSB report that the reduction in property taxes has had little effect. What has been reported is a reduction in company tax and a reduction in company tax has been necessary to facilitate new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e432	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e437	What we're going to see here is just an example that there are always arguments from the right-hand side to keep reducing the taxes for those who have the most of them. Then other problems, such as poverty among families with children, get in line. That's the right-hand government's priority. So we see a well-being out in Norway screaming for more money. We have seen examples of newly operated persons being sent by taxi on one of the most winterly exposed roads in Finnmark. We have seen that several women now give birth in a road pocket on their way to the hospital, that the police are not moving out to an 89-year-old who is calling because an unknown man breaks the window in her house. The municipalities cut in welfare, and the government cuts in the glasses stand for kids with visual disturbances. All of these examples could take a billion. Nevertheless, giving 1 billion is the Minister of Finance and the government's priority. kr in tax cuts to the thousand richest people in the country. How does it help the 89-year-old who's waiting for the police, or the pregnant woman who wants a good enough supply of food?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e446	We have challenges in Velferds-Norway, and the examples that the representative draws on are serious. I agree that we need to be even better at solving the challenges for people, both at school, in the municipalities, with the care of the elderly – there we still have a job to do. But basically, if we're to have more money to spend on well-being, we also have to facilitate the creation of values. There is – obviously – SV and Right disagree. We have to facilitate that we also have a large Norwegian ownership. We have a large foreign ownership in Norway, and it is great that foreigners want to invest their money in Norway, but we also need to facilitate Norwegian ownership. It is actually this government that has contributed to low-income families getting free core time in kindergartens, and that we have also set a ceiling on how much is to be paid out of our own income. It's this government that is now implementing the same thing for SFO. It means a lot to the low-income families in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e453	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e459	In the Council's reply to the representative Tajik earlier, he said that the purpose of this government's tax policy is that it should pay off to work. But it pays even more to inherit here in the country. This government is the first Western government to have abolished the inheritance fee since Mussolinis Italia. In the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Germany, of course, they have inheritance taxes. I think there are many here in Norway who feel it is deeply unfair that young people in the 20s inherit hundreds of millions, a billion without having to pay taxes, while people work and labor and pay taxes on wages. Two out of three of the country's hundred richest are heirs, and we have more dollars billionaires than the United States in relation to population size. Assets accumulate on fewer and fewer hands. The right-hand side should be concerned with equal opportunities. Can the Minister of Finance explain to us why it's fair to inherit 100 million? kr without paying taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e464	I think there are quite a number of ordinary people who are also happy that the government has removed the inheritance fee. The inheritance tax was a major challenge, mainly for ordinary people, but also for many who take over family-owned businesses. I think many people are now concerned that SV will have influence in Norwegian policy and reintroduce the inheritance fee. I would also recommend the representative to take a trip along the coast and visit some of the smaller family-run businesses. It is not that all of these have a lot of money on the book that can be used to pay an inheritance fee. The reality is that in case of a generation change, there are many who have to pay dividends from the company in order to pay the inheritance tax to the country. Does it strengthen or weaken our coastal workplaces? I believe it weakens the jobs when you in an inheritance settlement, in order for the next generation to take over the company, you have to pay dividends to pay the inheritance fee. We have to make sure that we also spread power, and we do that by leaving money back locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e471	Eigil Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e476	Although the new Minister of Finance will not answer Kaski’s questions, there is little doubt when you read the financial reports that there is an increasing inequality in wealth in Norway. Over half of our total wealth is disposed of by the 10 pst. Richest. The Minister of Finance replied that he was busy creating jobs in Norway. Yes, we know that economic growth in Norway would be significantly higher if we had a lower level of economic differences. It's interesting to see, because there's a new party in the Ministry of Finance, what they say about the economic inequalities in Norway. According to the Granavolden platform, a society of small differences is to be maintained. Erna Solberg said to the right.no to fight a society with too many differences. In the Workers' Party, we have greater ambitions than this. We want to reduce the economic differences in Norway. That is why I want to ask the new Minister of Finance whether he shares the Workers' Party's objective of reducing the financial differences in Norway, or whether he only wants to preserve the financial differences at the level they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e483	I'm busy preserving a society with little differences. I think it's an important value in Norway. It is a value that does not belong to the left side or the right side, but to Norway. We're concerned that there shouldn't be too many differences. So the question is which tools you use. I got the impression that the representative said that the growth in Norway would be significantly higher if the differences had been smaller. Is it true that increasing taxes on wealth increases growth in Norway? No, I don't think so. On the other hand, I think we have some long-term challenges that we need to address. We must ensure that more young people complete high school. It is not possible today — at least not too many — to drop out of high school and get to work. If we are to ensure that the differences do not become too large, we must also ensure that more people complete high school. We have to have an integration policy that helps several of our new Nordics get into work, that they get qualifications and can work. There are many of the measures that will be most important over time to preserve the values that we actually share.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e490	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e495	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. It's nice to meet the new Minister of Knowledge in Stortinget, but the political rug I think is serious. Norwegian school is facing a serious teaching shortage, and the consequences are already noticed in Norwegian classrooms. The unqualified rate is the highest of 15 years, an increase of almost 50 pst. since the right-hand government took over. Half of the hours of special education are carried out by unqualified assistants, and municipalities, especially in the districts, report major difficulties in recruiting teachers. If we look forward, it'll probably just get worse. We're expected to lack 5,800 qualified teachers in 2040, according to the SSB. There's an increase in the teaching shortage of 1,800 teachers since the last SSB calculation. There are many who are now excited about what is going to be different when the Left has inherited the Ministry of Knowledge from the Right Grip. So far there's nothing to testify that there's going to be any special change in the political course. So I would like to remind the Council of State of a quote from 2013, when she sat in opposition. Then said party leader Skei Grande: ‘From our analysis of the main challenge in Norwegian school, the lack of teachers and the high use of unskilled is one of the main challenges we can define.’ This, I think, is an opinion that should now be obliged when one is responsible in the department concerned. Will the Council of State continue the Right policy line and continue to steer blindly towards an increasing shortage of teachers and more unqualified, or can we now expect new, concrete steps to reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e513	Thank you so much for giving me a question as well, and a very important question, which I think is one of the most important questions about getting a school in Norway that helps balance differences, is helping to give all children the freedom they deserve to shape their own lives through knowledge and good support. Then we know that the most important input in school – and that's what the Left has always meant – to be able to give the children that ballast, are wise, good teachers, teachers who know their subjects, who are safe adults, and who are safe leaders in the classroom. That's why we've been champions. We were the first together with the Progress Party to propose five-year teacher training, which we are now rolling out. We were the first to propose that we have a continuing education promise for teachers. Now we're going to spend 1.5 billion. kr a year to increase teacher competence. We see that there has been a change of pace in teacher training. The Workers' Party was very critical of introducing five-year teacher training, and the Centre Party called it ‘academic jubilee’. Now what we're rolling out is going to give us more teachers, because what's happened is that the status of the teaching profession has increased. The application for teacher training is increasing. Turning this shot is demanding. But it is also important that we now focus on more professional skills for teachers, and then it is going to be a demanding period when we now have many in further education and have a whole coal going through a five-year teacher training. But the end result we know is going to lead to a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e524	Thank you for the history class on all the things that have been done in school policy. I have to say I'm a little disappointed that the Council of State doesn't flag any new grips, any new ambitions, now that the Left has taken over the Ministry of Knowledge – grips that can be involved and reverse this trend. My criticism of the government is not just about the lack of grip, it is also about the fact that this government has deliberately implemented policies that aimly increase the teaching shortage. Fresh figures now show that every third English teacher and every fourth math teacher lack the competence assigned to them by the right-wing government and are at risk of being separated in 2025. There are 22,000 teachers who have to go to school in the next few years. This is going to lead to more unqualified people going to be in Norwegian classrooms in the future, and that's not good for the students. Can the Council assure parents, teachers and students around Norway that fewer unqualified will be teaching in classrooms in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e533	I'm going to assure the representative Tvedt Solberg that the most important thing we do is to increase competence. We have also dealt with both teacher norms and large programmes of competence. That's the really big promise we're making on the school page. But the medicine of lowering the requirement of professional competence, lowering the requirement of being able to teach the subjects, lowering the requirement of admission to teacher training, lowering the requirement of how many teachers there should be in the classroom, lowering the ambitions in the school – not going to be Left's medicine. We're going to want to stretch all the time, want us to develop a school with well-qualified teachers who, throughout their teaching career, want to extend to the further competence. What I think is strange, when teachers actually say that they want to be on that duel, is that you talk it down. You call it separation when there are so many teachers who want to be on that team.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e540	There will be follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e546	It's not a good thing that the government has called for that the teachers are so interested in participating in. Now I have challenged the Council of State both to reverse the grip that the government has done, which deliberately increases the teaching shortage, and to ask if the new Council of State can flag some new grips to reverse this trend. If the analysis of the 2013 quotation is still ongoing and the Council of State still considers this to be the most important thing, there must well be some new grip that this Council of State may indicate in order for one to be able to reverse the trend. There's nothing I've heard in the answers that's come up now, which shows that one's going to change the evolution that the SSB says last increased quite dramatically when they did their new estimates. And as I pointed out, the retroactive separation is going to lead to more unqualified people in the classroom. Is it so that with the Left at the rudder of the Ministry of Knowledge, everything will be just as before, just as the Right Rule ruled?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e553	I am quite surprised that it is said that teachers are not interested in continuing training. Where did you get that? We see that we have a record of continuing education – that's what we're spending the big money on within the school right now. We feel that there are more teachers who are applying than we actually have space for. There's a big suck out there to be on this duel to lift Norwegian school, and I'm very surprised that you're talking about it as if this is something they're not interested in. What I don't think is talking about Norwegian teachers in a good way. If you're going to fight the teaching shortage, you don't do it by lowering the requirements, by having lower expectations and by wanting to have fewer on these studies. I believe that the teaching profession must be an important profession that manages authority in a society because a person manages knowledge. Then we have to make sure to back them up, we have to make sure to cheer them up, and we also have to make sure to give them support so that they can have professional authority in the classroom. I've barely talked to someone who hasn't been very happy about the training they've been doing and I think it's more fun to be a teacher afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e558	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e563	I think I have to remind the Council of State that there is consensus in the Stortingen on continuing education. No one in Stortinget wants to take that share down. What the Workers' Party and the opposition have opposed is the separation of teachers with retroactive force, and I refer to the fact that the Education Association, the teacher's organisations, have been very critical of it. If the council has not heard it yet, I expect her to hear it the next few days. It is with retroactive force that I believe is wrong. I believe that it is the opposite of cheering on the teachers to say that the good answer is that the thousands of experienced teachers who have taught in Norwegian classrooms for a long time, now have to be sent back to the school bench and replaced by unskilled teachers. But I want to repeat the question, because I don't see that the Council of State answered: Is it now that everything is just going to be like before, when the Right controlled this department, or can the Left Council flag some new grip that will reverse the trend and make us not get the great teaching shortage that we now have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e572	Yeah, that's all the steps we're actually taking to prevent that teacher's deficiency from happening. And I don't see any other good tools that can help when we introduce continuing education and training commitments, five-year teacher training, character requirements to get into the education, which have helped raise the candidate masses of education, and have helped raise the authority of the teaching profession. I don't think lowering the requirements is the right solution for getting better teachers; I think we should raise the demands. Then more people are going to come back to the teaching profession, and we're going to get more people who want to stand in it. This amazes me a little, because there are a number of professions that you have to have professionally filled in order to have. If you become a big crowd representative and you have to sit here for four years and you're a T-Bahn driver in Oslo, you actually have to go out at regular intervals and run the T-Bahn, make sure you stay professionally up to date, in order to keep up with the possibility of running the T-Bahn. If you are a doctor and you are here for four years, you must provide continuous training to keep the medical title. If a lawyer and a lawyer work as a lawyer for a period of time, they have to fill in to get permission to do so. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] Why do you think teachers don't need a fill of knowledge -- and it surprises me -- I think it's just the opposition that...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e581	And if you're a big-time president, you have to remember that speaking time is 1 minute! Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e588	The lack of funding for the fifth year of education in teachers during these days helps to frustrate the provision of teacher training in the whole country. Only North University gets an extra 50 million. kr for which they are not compensated, even if the government claims that this is a bet. In 2017, the representative Skei Grande raised the concerns of the knowledge minister Røe Isaksen about the number of unqualified teachers and difficulties in recruiting the reserve staff teachers who are trained but who work outside the school. She then wanted a plan to recruit enough teachers to the school. Is this any State Council Skei Grande now going to get in place? Will the Left fully finance the fifth year of teacher training, or does she believe that the standard of teaching and the measures are successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e593	In the case of five-year teacher training, unfortunately, the government council, Asheim, has to answer that, because it is his responsibility, but I notice that the party that has been most opposed to five-year teacher training, is now suddenly involved in the financing of it. The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum defined five-year teacher education as «academic slavery» in the previous election campaign, but it is very good if the Center Party is now able to turn around and support the fact that it is an important lift for Norwegian school. All the measures we are taking now are to ensure that more well-trained teachers who are safe in their teaching role and who are safe adults enter school. I believe that good professional security helps to make better teachers who are also safe leaders in the classroom. I don't think that the idea that you don't need as much education to stand in the classroom as the Center Party has foreshadowed here is the right way to go to recruit more teachers. There are a lot of teachers out there who work in other professions, and we have to get them back to the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e600	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e605	We have to be clear that the main problem is those who don't have any education at all, and the lack of qualified people in quite a lot of classrooms and for quite a lot of hours. The opinion expressed by the Centre Party on five-year teacher training stands. It's about having a study offer and training teachers across the country. We lose that, among other things. the basis for non-funded five-year teacher training. The criticism of government action is broadly anchored. Even in the NOU of the Training Law Committee, they pointed to how the teaching norm contributes to the improper use of resources. Nearly one in four schools lack annual work to fill the norm. The lack of qualified specialised educators for special education is also a significant part of the teaching shortage. The teaching norm does not make it easier for municipalities to find financial space to hire specialised educators and the teaching resources they need. How does the Council of State feel that municipalities should comply with norms and national requirements without increased subsidies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e612	We have increased the grant for continuing education dramatically in recent years. This is something that at least did not exist until we started with the Knowledge promise in Norwegian school. Until then, there was a purely municipal task taken within the municipal framework. Now we go in with countless hundreds of millions to raise just this. What I think we fundamentally disagree about is that the fight against having too many uneducated teachers into teaching jobs is taken by lowering the requirement. We don't take it by reducing the status of the teaching profession, we don't take it by making it easier to get in, and we don't take it by lowering the requirements for teacher training. We take it by making it more attractive to have that kind of work, and that's just the hard work we're doing right now, and that a lot of teachers are involved in raising the credits to their own profession. That's also how we manage to reach the manning standards over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e620	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e625	I must begin by congratulating the new Minister of Knowledge on the dream job! The number of unskilled teachers has increased by more than 40 pst. under the right-hand government, which means that every day thousands of students go to school without being trained by a qualified teacher. No one had accepted that if they were not trained for the job, doctors and nurses would be employed. Besides, it's illegal. But as far as teachers are concerned, you've been employed over a low shoe, and students from high school are hired to teach our kids. Too many teachers disappear from the profession. I hope that the Minister of Knowledge agrees with me. A total of 8,100 teachers taught in 2008, who today — ten years later — are no longer in the profession. What targeted action will the Minister of Knowledge take to bring back the reserve strength of teachers who are currently working outside the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e634	Sorry, but now I think maybe I'm in danger of repeating myself, because this I've answered a lot of times before: then we have to increase the status of the teaching profession. The status of the teaching profession is not increased by lowering the requirements, lowering the intake rate, reducing the number of years of teacher training. This is done by introducing five-year teacher training, introducing a teacher's vow, providing further training for all, increasing teacher standards and ensuring that we increase the status of the teaching profession in general. I don't know if you noticed the candidate numbers for teacher training. The applicant numbers reflect the status of the teacher profession. I want that number to be much, much higher. I want it to be the very best ones who want to participate and give knowledge to the generations of tomorrow. And then we need to raise the status of this profession. I'm very open to new measures to do that, but I don't think lowering professional requirements, lowering education and having less continuing education makes it easier to get better teachers into school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e641	Mona Fagerås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e646	So the answer is to increase the status. That's what Trine Skei Grande said in 2013, and I have to be allowed to quote the Council of State: ‘We need to increase the status of the teaching profession and make it attractive to more people. It’s about teacher training’ – as she talked about before today – ‘it’s about regular professional updates, and it’s about salary.’ That's what left-wing leader Trine Skei Grande said to NTB seven years ago, and she hasn't mentioned that today. I agree with the 2013 edition of Trine Skei Grande. If we are to get enough teachers, the state must also be willing to raise wages and improve the working conditions of teachers, for example. through a trust reform. What measures does Minister of Knowledge Trine Skei Grande intend to put in place to increase the pay of teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e658	I'm not the one who negotiates pay, and I'm sure SV's representative knows very well, but that's what KS does. I believe that as we increase teacher training, and we increase further education, it is clear that it must be reflected in the wage development of a profession for which we increase the professional requirements, but I believe that this is a job between the parties. But I think that introducing five-year teacher training, having the continuing training requirements, etc., over time also needs to be reflected in how one pays.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e665	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e670	My question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Cooperation between the state and the municipalities and private kindergartens has been and is a very successful welfare reform, and private kindergartens have been important to ensure what is most important for many families with children, namely to provide adequate childcare facilities. We know that most of the private kindergartens are of high quality, they represent a great pedagogical and content diversity, they have consistently lower sick leave, are operated effectively, and we are all aware that private kindergartens score supremely on parental studies. The sector is already regulated in the form of e.g.: Staff standards and maximum price, and it is no secret that although the Progress Party also sees that there may be a need for regulatory clearance, we are not as big as we are in favour of legal clearance leading to even more regulation. Last year the government sent out a proposal to regulate private kindergartens with some open questions, where the government did not point out a direction, but where feedback was requested before concluding. The proposals for new regulation that have been consulted have been thoroughly highlighted by the private kindergarten sector, and some points have received a lot of criticism. Will the Minister of Knowledge listen to the sector’s input and scrape the points that have received the most criticism, such as: making changes to pensions without seeing the financing in a context, as well as the requirement that each nursery should be organised as a separate legal entity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e683	I share the representative's commitment and honours in the private kindergartens, which have been absolutely crucial to achieving the goals we have set in relation to kindergarten, and which do not only contribute to making a very good offer that many people are satisfied with, but also contribute to giving it the variation in kindergarten offers that makes it possible for parents today to choose a professional profile in their kindergarten in a completely different way than they have had in the past. It leads to innovation and innovation that I think is important to take care of. Then the government has not concluded on all the proposals that the Progress Party agreed to send to the hearing, so I have to be allowed to come back to when we are going to submit the proposals. Some of them also relate to budgets, and then, hopefully, the Progress Party has the opportunity to influence what the budget is going to look like. Some of the proposals mentioned by the representative will also be addressed. I also think it is important to ensure that we have a kindergarten sector with great confidence in people who provide good quality and who take care of the safety of children. That's why we have to regulate this field, because we know that we need people who take care of the children's environment and who are able to see each and every kid in a good way. We know that e.g. testing language skills in kindergarten is important in order to succeed. Now that the government has introduced free core time and reduced prices, it is a matter of knowing that the kids who need it all, most of all, are just the kids who should be seen in kindergarten and who should get the language stimulation that makes them succeed later. We know that kids who go to kindergarten complete higher education more often, and they take longer higher education. So it's important to have all children in kindergarten. Especially those who have challenges at home are those who may get the most benefit from being in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e692	It is a pity that the Council of State can't answer affirmatively at least those questions that have received the most criticism. Another important point at least for the Progress Party, but which I know has also been very important for the Left, as I hope it is possible to give a signal about already now, is to make the threshold lower in order to establish new kindergartens and more kindergartens, and that all types of owners have a real opportunity to start and run good kindergartens. Today it is like buying existing kindergartens, which makes it more difficult for smaller and ideal actors to get in. This was one of the points where the government did not point out a direction, but where one heard open feedback. I wonder if the Council of State believes the same thing as the party leader in the Left felt when she was in opposition, that it is important to lower the threshold in order to establish new kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e701	I think it is important to have mechanisms that ensure greater variation in kindergarten provision. I think it is important to have mechanisms that allow good ideas about kindergarten services to come from below. But we have a challenge that some of these kindergartens now can only be driven by the big chains, and that's not our idea of variation. Our idea of variation is all the small entrepreneurs that build these projects from below, and there we have to make it easier. Swallow if we've had this at the hearing, and sail if we've got many kinds of recordings, I think it's important to find the balance point that makes us not getting those headlines that we've got today, about big purchases in Australia. Because what we want is, in particular, that all the female entrepreneurs and all those who want to work with kids in a different way are going to have the opportunity to build good kindergarten offers from below, without having to have the big capital chains behind them in order to go in and do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e709	There will be follow-up questions – first Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e714	One of the reasons why there have been fewer small private kindergartens is that they experience that there have been more rules, more regulation and more bureaucracy. One of the changes I mentioned, to which the Council of State would not respond, is to make each nursery a separate legal entity. For example, the training workshop has: written in its replies to the hearing that this would lead to increased costs of salary management, accounting, forwarding and auditing. So this is money that would go to the children, but that would instead have to go to increased bureaucracy. If there are requirements for kindergartens as their own legal entities, I believe that it would violate the principle of non-discrimination, as it says in Granavolden, because this is a requirement that will not apply to public kindergartens. Is the Council of State of the view that the requirement of kindergartens as its own legal entities coincides with what is in Granavolden, while at the same time it coincides with the government's objective of reducing bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e723	I must be allowed to come back to this when I am going to present the whole of it. I haven't been long enough to draw all the conclusions. I think that the challenge for many private kindergartens is not only about bureaucracy and new legislation, but also about the fact that many people think it has been difficult to work with municipalities that treat them very differently from the public authorities. It also takes the spark from many entrepreneurs who want to be involved and develop new things. So I don't think it's one-sided about claims. Many of these requirements see people working in kindergarten, a reason, that it's something you want to have, but having a good cooperation with municipalities – and municipalities that facilitate that kind of variation, and don't think they're a hair in soup, but actually a good response – I think it's important. We see that in municipalities such as Oslo, it's very important to fight the private measures, and that's probably what takes the energy of most people working in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e730	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e735	There had never been full childcare without the private people who invested their money in expanding the offer. Many of these had plots, and it is clear that when you get empty in Oslo – a municipality where it costs a lot to buy these plots – you will be left with quite a lot of profit when you continue to sell. It has been running from the left over a long time now, with the representative Moxnes at the head, has contributed to developments in this field, which is moving towards tightening up the regulatory environment, which may be at the expense of many kindergartens. Many parents are extremely satisfied with this offer — it shows the user surveys. We are among them and are now concerned about developments and that in some cases these offers may disappear. Can the Council of State assure parents that it will facilitate a policy that takes care of private kindergartens and ensures the provision with which so many parents are satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e742	Yes, I believe it is at least important to facilitate that whole variation. We see a lot in municipal policy that makes it difficult. I can just take my own town, Old Oslo. There, a private kindergarten, run by the Church's Bymission, experiences that they are no longer allowed to operate. Another small, private kindergarten experiences that the bus they have taken the children on a trip twice a week, no longer gets a parking permit in Old Oslo, so they have to stop taking the children on a forest trip twice a week. There are many ways to make it difficult to be a private kindergarten. We need to ensure a national legislation that facilitates variation and that it is precisely the founders who are building up the ideas from below that are given opportunities. And then we have to see if we can set the framework so that it's not just the big money resources that's behind it, but that it's the foundership that comes from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e751	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e756	We are very excited about the work on the new law. The Labour Party has been particularly concerned with the small ideal actors, to whom the Council of State was a little involved. The reality there is that there was an enormous amount of purchase of small ideal kindergartens by the large commercial kindergarten groups, which I believe have created an imbalance, and which in no way facilitates the variation that Left has also been engaged in. In 2018, a majority in Stortinget said that the government had to investigate a legal distinction between ideal and commercial kindergartens, so that one could prioritize the ideals, just to ensure this balance. It is a decision on which the Right-State Council has not delivered. We can hope that the State Council of Skei Grande is more concerned about the ideals and ensures the variation of which one is so concerned, and gets in place an investigation of a legal distinction between precisely ideal and commercial kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e763	Diverging between the ideals and the commercials has proved not to be so easy in any of the welfare areas we have. We don't want to have the big groups that are in and out here, but the challenge is that when you do it hard enough for the small, the ideal and the small entrepreneurs, it's the big ones who come and help them and get up against those places where it's hard to work with the municipality. That's why we've seen the big purchases that we've made. I want to mention an example: I visited a small nursery for a time ago that a female founder had started. She had worked all her life with the kindergarten – the whole family’s big project – they used all the vacations to work out outdoors, the husband was the accountant, and she was the managing director. It was her savings, her retirement and her nursery. This is about a lot of women entrepreneurs who have invested a lot of money to make good solutions for people, and I'd like to cheer them up. We need to find arrangements to prevent the large groups from taking over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e772	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e777	I can understand that it's hard, so it's so important that one does this thorough investigation. I disagree that the large groups in a way help the small kindergartens when they buy them up. We have many examples and stories of small kindergartens that have reluctantly had to sell, and there has been a huge shift between now fewer ideal kindergartens and more that are bought up by the large groups. I realized that one is critical of resolving such a legal distinction, but how will the Council of State then concretely in the new law ensure that one at least takes action to reverse this imbalance that is now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e783	We're not critical of investigating, we're willing to use consultants for that in this government. But our challenge is that it's not that easy to make those solutions. That's what we've learned so far. We've also learned it in other sectors, we've tried to do this in, for example. the older sector and in other areas too, to be able to achieve that distinction. But it's not that easy in Norway, where most of the innovation on the social side is small entrepreneurs and small innovation companies. But we're going to do that job and run it and see if it's possible to do it. This was just a warning that it is not as easy as it can seem to be when formulating it as a political goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e788	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e793	The left has sky-high ambitions for kindergartens, and the Stortinge adopted a recruitment norm that in itself was also widely political in nature, and had great ambitions to get more adults to follow up the kids. But the problem here was just the funding. In the pre-Christmas consultation with the State Budget for 2020, KS pointed out that it was up to 680 million. are lacking in order to complete the financing of this Code. It contributes, inter alia, to: to ensure that municipalities are unable to cover staffing in their kindergartens, and that private people are not given funding to increase staffing in their own – and with the two-year lag as an additional issue. Will the Left ensure full funding of the staffing norm so that these kids receive the follow-up they deserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e798	This is a quite new reform, which was implemented in 2018. Now, the numbers we've been given last week show that the crew is increasing, and on average, you can achieve the goals you've set. It is not that private people have been worse on board than they have been in public. They've really stretched out and tried to achieve the goal of more professionals. Then it's also about having the good offers that are adapted to the children, and making sure that you have coverage when there are children in kindergarten. It is clear that we could have made sure that we had crew standards that applied to the entire opening time of the kindergarten, it would have cost approx. 14 B.C.E. kr, and everyone who has participated in both delivering and picking up children knows that there is a slightly different child density within a day. We've threatened that kindergartens are good at adapting the manning to when the kids are there. But we must follow this further. This is a reform that was introduced in 2018, so we need to spend some time looking at how we are going to manage to adapt it in order to achieve the goals we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e805	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e819	There will be a change in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The change was as follows: Question no. 5, from the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e831	‘The government-appointed sample that has looked at the taxation of aquaculture activities delivered its report to former Minister of Finance Siv Jensen on 4 November 2019. NOU 2019: 18 were sent to 3 months of consultation without political treatment, and the hearing has now ended. How does the Council of State think to follow up the matter against Stortinget?"
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e838	SV’s representatives from Storting promoted in Document 8:192 S for 2017-2018 proposed to ask the government to investigate and submit proposals for a production fee. At the time of treatment in the Grand Duchy, the majority of governments were asked to set up a party-based sample to investigate different forms of taxation of the aquaculture industry. The decision also shows that the case is closed in the spring of 2020 with a view to its possible entry into force in mid-2020. In line with the Stortinget decision, the Government set up the Maritime Tax Committee on 7 September 2018. The Marine Tax Committee delivered its investigation on 4 November 2019, and the report was sent to the hearing on the same day. The hearing period expired on 4 February 2020, which is yesterday, and there have been many recordings. The Ministry of Finance will now assess the responses and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner, in line with the request decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e855	I thank you for the presentation. The matter is known, it has been going on for a long time in various forms. The most important thing, at least for the Workers' Party, is that the municipalities that make the land available for the development of aquaculture will have more to do with fixed remuneration. On 27 January, before the deadline had expired, the new Minister for Fisheries, Geir Inge Sivertsen, said that the farming industry had to pay an area tax. Then I wonder, is this a view shared by the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e862	I am responsible for this matter, and the hearing ended yesterday. Then it would not be right for me to give any signals as to what the government is going to propose. This is a matter that affects a very important industry for Norway. It affects many local environments in Norway, and it is also about the tax revenue of the community. Then I believe it is right to have a thorough assessment of both the hearing replies and the totality of it, and then we will return to Stortinget, in line with the signals given earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e867	I then assume that there will be a matter for Stortinget where we will discuss all the possible suggestions that lie in the matter, and the recordings that have been made. As I said, the most important thing is that the municipalities, the local communities, have more left to make the area available for one industry, which obviously goes beyond the possibility for other industries to use the same areas. Since he cannot go into the matter itself – I understand – do I wonder if the Minister of Finance shares my analysis that the municipalities deserve more? Then I am not asking the Minister to go into what kind of arrangement, but the principle that the municipalities will have more left to make the area available. Can the Minister agree with that as a principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e876	If I had answered that, I would have gone into the matter. For here it is both the question of whether to do something, and then you have the discussion about production fees or rent taxes, and then it is the distribution between the municipality and the state. So my answer is the same: we will come back to Stortinget in line with the request decision, and then I thank you for understanding what the Workers' Party believes about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e884	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e892	«Today, the specialty competence is directly linked to the tax collector. The Ministry of Finance proposed in the State budget for 2020 that municipalities retain their specialty skills. How is this to be resolved when the municipal tax collector is planned to be transferred to the tax administration on 1 June 2020, how has the issue been addressed, and what dialogue has been established with the parties involved?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e899	I appreciate the representative's commitment that municipalities will continue to be able to carry out effective collection. Municipalities have a number of claims against citizens, based on law or agreement. Municipalities themselves can choose whether to claim municipal claims or to purchase the service from private operators. A number of municipalities are buying the service today instead of charging themselves. In cases where a claim for enforcement is made, this may only be done through the ordinary civil servant or the tax collector as a special authority. The municipality, in the case of the tax collector, currently has special powers for a few types of requirements, including: property taxes and parking and heavy duty charges. When the tax recovery from 2020 is incorporated into the tax base, the special scheme authority for the relevant types of claims is transferred to the municipalities. It is up to the municipalities how they organise and solve the task of municipal collection, including compulsory collection. After the transfer, the municipality may choose to use the specialty competence, use the ordinary civil servant or use the tax liability as a specialty authority. The tax revenue has created a project to carry out the transfer of tasks and employees to the tax liability. KS has set up its own project to safeguard the interests of municipalities in connection with the transfer. There are regular meetings between the tax administration, the Ministry of Finance and the KS on different aspects of task transfer. The issue was addressed by the tax base in 2014 and the proposal was through an ordinary consultation process in 2015. Necessary legislative changes were adopted by the Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e916	I thank you for your answer. What is worrying is that one here shows that there are a number of processes currently in progress – after the Storting has decided on a massive centralisation by transferring the municipal tax collection to the tax rate. One goes from 227 offices to 56 offices. But specifically on how to solve this: It is correct that it was investigated in 2014 and 2015, but it ended with one in 2016 deciding not to go further with it. So the proposal appeared again in the state budget for 2020, without any new investigations, without any dialogue with the affected. And what Norway's confederation of economists and local economists says, not a few days ago, is that it is completely undecided how that strange-minded function should be. Does the Council see the need to spend more time on this matter and delay the introduction of this transfer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e923	The answer to that is no. I don't see any reason to spend any more time. In the case of a transfer to the tax base, it is well planned over a very many years. It is well established, and it is also an important measure to combat undeclared work. We are now getting stronger professional environments 56 different places in the country, which can contribute to a more effective fight against economic crime and undeclared work, and it will also contribute to equal treatment of the population. So it's a necessary and proper reform. There is good dialogue between the tax administration, the Ministry of Finance and the KS, and the feedback I get is that the dialogue is good and that we are going to get it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e930	One will not strengthen the fight against crime at work when centralising and making it more difficult to conduct outreach activities, which also make access to the public more demanding. What would make sense if one were to strengthen the work against labour-life crime was to give municipal tax collection powers, more transparency – as they have asked over time, but as the Ministry of Finance has unfortunately refused. Back to the question: it's absolutely crucial how to solve the function of a specialist, because this is an intrusive, comprehensive issue. There's even the possibility that you can break into people's homes to find out if they're sitting on values that they're trying to avoid. It is therefore crucial how this should be organised. Those who sit close to it say they don't know how this is supposed to be organized. Would it not then make sense to give more time and at least delay the implementation of this reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e937	I have answered the question. It's not about postponing it. It will be implemented as planned. I do not know what sources of information the representative has. My impression is that the dialogue is good between the tax administration, KS and the department. And then there will always be challenges in such an implementation, but just to postpone I have little faith in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e945	Do I have permission before I begin to congratulate the Council of State with new responsibilities? - Congratulations so much on it! I look forward to the cooperation. ‘By the accession of the Council of State, we could hear that he was hesitant to trade-union organisation in Norway. What part of the government’s anti-union policy will he change to follow words of action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e952	Thank you for your congratulations, and thank you for what you might call a Polish question. It is tempting to answer Polish and ask: is it the lowest unemployment rate in ten years, is it that the employment rate goes up, is it the record investment in Norwegian industry – at least close to the record investments – that is so-called anti-union? Is it that more now are applying for vocational training than are applying for preparatory studies, that more are getting apprenticeships, and that fewer are dropping out of high school, which is poor? Are there new a-crime centres, the strategy to combat crime at work, more jobs in the private sector, the decline in the number of migrant workers compared to the red-green years, which are anti-union? But I'm not going to do that. Instead, I'm going to say a little bit about why it's important to organize, and how we work with the social partners, because it's a very central part of the Norwegian model, and you could also say the Nordic model. This means that we have – and will continue to have – regular discussions with both employers and trade unions. And by trade unions, I mean all trade unions, not only the largest, but also those that are smaller, but are main associations. There is cooperation on skills, cooperation on inclusive working and equal opportunities in the labour market. The labour-criminal strategy is entirely dependent on input from the social partners. We also have party-grouped samples. It's important, because even though it's not an automatic way to have any NOU represent the parties, it's often very sensible because you get the perspectives from the world of work, and you also get the opportunity to engage in important discussions with the social partners there and there. High levels of social inclusion in organised society are primarily the contributions of the parties. I don't think anyone disagrees with the fact that there are parties that need to ensure that they are attractive and able to recruit, and not least go into sectors and areas where the degree of organisation is traditionally low. This also applies on the employer’s side. We have also set in motion cooperation with the parties to find good solutions to strengthen the emergence of social organisations – not because the state is to start recruiting members, because it is an important principle in tripartite cooperation to respect that we have different roles, that the state is state and organisations are independent organisations, but because we can discuss, we can contribute with knowledge and information, not least dissemination and good meeting places in tripartite cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e961	When the council talks about this, it sounds nice and neat, but when we travel around the country and the beach and talk to people at the grassroots in the trade movement, but also in the management of the federations, no one recognizes the beauty that the council is trying to draw. On the contrary, it is seen that a trade union anti-union policy aimed at weakening the emergence of trade union movement is being consistently implemented. The right has cut the trade union deduction, weakened the trade union's influence in the workplace and weakened tripartite cooperation. Now I would like to challenge the Council of State whether there is anything more than fine words and phrases, which we often hear from the Red Isaacs, or whether it will follow action behind the fine phrases that you cheer for trade organisation in Norway. Will the Right increase the trade union deduction? Will the Right reintroduce collective redress? Will Right contribute to the strengthening of corporate democracy? And will the Right stop the process they themselves have started to take out almost everything that's about the Norwegian model from the curricula?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e968	I could say a little bit about it, but there's a bunch of statements here that are just crazy. Firstly, the trade union deduction has not been cut. It is true that it is not cost-adjusted, but if having an unchanged trade union deduction means being anti-union, you can see from the figures that, as far as I know, it was unchanged from 1980 to 1998. And then there are some prominent Labour Party ministers who in that case also have to get that label. I believe that falls on his own unreasonableness. As far as collective redress is concerned, several years have passed since the government said that it is not relevant for us. But that doesn't mean we're not going to have an offensive strategy to take the bad guys in the world of work. I then stress that by «the bad guys in the workplace», I mean not only those who run clean and intersect the crime of working life. Then I also mean those who bend and bend the legislation, those who do not pay proper wages, those who do not follow the culture and norms of Norwegian labour. We're going to point that out, and we're going to take them. Where necessary, we should also have, for example: public disclosure, but it is the parties that are heavily involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e975	After all, the government itself knows that when he talks about not cutting off the union deduction, he is misled. It's been silent, on the same amount of dollars, since 2013, and that means a cut in the deduction of every state budget Right has been in government since 2013. When we had a red-green government, we significantly increased the union deduction, and the degree of organisation was also higher than it would have been without. But the Council of State itself points at the end of its answer to a group that really needs the value of it to be trade-organised, namely foreign workers, who are pushing down wages if they are not included in the Norwegian model. Then it is absolutely central that we offer them good guidance, good information, about the Norwegian model and the value of organizing. Then it does not work with a website and some brochures in English. What will the Council of State actually do to ensure that such workers are included in the Norwegian model?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e982	I was absolutely precise and correct in my mention of the union deduction. I said that it “is not cost-adjusted”, and I believe that it is something other than a cut. So was my simple, modest point that if keeping it at the same level is equivalent to being anti-union, you can see that the union deduction was, as far as I know, at the same level from 1980 to 1998. Then you can go through in your head who had the prime minister in the different periods, and then some prominent Labour Party ministers would also have to get that label. I am more than willing to discuss in my own party whether the trade union deduction should also be adjusted for costs, but it is a process we have to take internally. In the case of non-resident workers, I fully agree; one of the most important Norwegian trade unions is to organise them, get them into trade unions, get them into the Norwegian model. I am open to any discussion and dialogue on how the State and the public can also contribute to it, even if the division of labour must be firmly established, where trade unions hold members.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e994	‘Nav count shows that 2,2 pst. by the labour force was completely unemployed in December. Despite a low total unemployment rate in Norway, there are persistently high levels of unemployment in some district municipalities and the proportion of employed persons is very low. What will the Council of State do to ensure low unemployment and high employment rates throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1001	Let me first use the opportunity to thank the Workers' Party for inviting the District Minister to discuss the opportunities and challenges of the districts in Stortinget. That's very good. I was a little surprised when the question from the representative from the Labour Party came, because the unemployment in Norway is low. I'm fine in District Norway. When I travel around the country, the business community and the municipalities tell me that there is a shortage of labour, and that it is difficult to recruit skilled labour for the job vacancies. The same is true of Nav and the NHO. We should be glad that unemployment in Norway is low. In fact, the registered unemployment rate in 2019 was the lowest in 10 years. It provides a basis for growth and development across the country. In fact, unemployment is lower in District Norway than in the rest of the country. Much of the reason is that over many years the government has been systematically focusing on a labour, business and tax policy, just to give people a job to go to, and for businesses to grow and create jobs for the future. We have strong business environments and a well-developed education system, and this gives us good assumptions. Then, of course, we're going to deal with those areas of District Norway where the situation is different. Some district municipalities are struggling with a higher level of unemployment. Some municipalities experience more permanent leave, while other municipalities are able to return from high levels of unemployment. In some places, a high level of leave should be seen against seasonal variations, for example. in fisheries and travel. There are many policy areas that have a bearing on rural development. The government rates on transportation, education, culture and local economy, to name a few. We have targeted instruments that benefit businesses and municipalities in the districts. Differentiated employer’s fee is a good example of this. We also have means of conversion, if necessary. The main challenge is now, as we see it, the availability of enough and relevant labour. That is why we need to work to strengthen efforts to get more people to work, and to ensure that the population has the skills that businesses and municipalities need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1016	I find it worrying that the district minister is wondering about a question in which we question that some municipalities in the districts have a sustained high level of unemployment. That's exactly what's the whole point, that the total looks fine, but there are pockets that are absolutely not good. Take, for example: my own municipality of residence, which has a unemployment rate of 4 p.m., some municipalities in the north and several other examples. They don't notice that the total looks good – they know their own everyday life. I am calling for a greater commitment to those municipalities in the districts that have a sustained high unemployment rate. Business is screaming for skilled labour, but people are not necessarily qualified. We can do something about that in common. Then I wonder why training and education activities in Nav are not being used more to make people qualified for the jobs out there in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1023	It is a little strange that the representative echoes my feedback on the question, because the premise in the question from the representative – that there is a persistent high unemployment rate – is quite wrong, in my opinion. Yes, there are a few places, and there we need special attention, among other things. in the context of the State localisation policy, which is that when examining the structural changes, it shall, on a case-by-case basis, include an assessment of relocation from Oslo. Government competence jobs across the country are important. That's why the government wants an extra attention around it. There are several state jobs in almost all counties now compared to when the Workers' Party crashed. There are only three counties that have fewer. And we've decided to establish and move twice as many government jobs as they did under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1030	The government would like to decorate itself with the overall picture looking good, but I miss a commitment to those places where reality is not the same, and where you have a sustained high unemployment. My question was just about training measures in Nav, and the fact is that the use of training measures, which will ensure that people who are qualified to take those jobs, have fallen below this government. In 2013 it was 29 p.m., and in 2019 it was 21 p.m. The same government has cut labour market measures, made Nav cheese needs and cut benefits, which pushes people into social assistance. Then I wonder: Will the district minister make sure that we get an increased use of training measures in Nav in the years to come, reverse the trend of this government and make sure that we get people who are qualified to take the jobs out in the districts and build the districts by being attractive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1039	It's just government policy that works when we look around the country that there's a lot of jobs, and business goes well. And then it's precisely, as the representative was in, the skills workplaces that lack labour. Then we have to worry and help those parts of District Norway that don't go so well, and that have persistently high leave. An important step in this regard is to decentralise education. It is about connecting the right skills to the needs of businesses. That is why we have now launched Competence Pilots, which is a new measure to improve access to skilled labour in District Norway. We'll give you 16 million. kr to it this year, precisely because it is so important that we give our citizens the skills that businesses need, so that there is easy access to work around the whole of District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1055	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1063	‘When the Council of State responsible for the districts of Norway is also responsible for digitisation, the Government finally acknowledges that the districts have not been given the digital development that is absolutely necessary. The areas that have still not received access to broadband fibre are areas that are not commercially viable to expand. What will the Council of State now do to ensure that everyone in Norway has access to an effective and stable broadband, which will ensure a country-wide settlement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1070	The government has been speeding up the expansion of broadband across the country. International rankings show that Norway is very advanced in the provision and use of broadband and the Internet. We're going to enjoy that. Safe and good infrastructure is essential for the competitiveness of business and local value creation, for our democracy and for the participation of citizens. The government therefore provides good broadband infrastructure across the country. Today, as I said, Norway has very good mobile and broadband coverage. According to the latest coverage study, nearly 100 pst. a basic broadband offer of households in Norway, in the form of either fixed or mobile broadband. 86 pst. high-speed broadband is offered by households. The long-term objectives of the government are the provision of high-speed broadband to all. The commercial actors continue to invest in all parts of the country. This happens, among other things: by facilitating sustainable competition in sector-specific regulation, providing sufficient spectrum resources for mobile broadband and contributing to cost-effective deployment by removing unnecessary barriers. Market actors invested almost 10 billion. kr in 2018. The availability of high-speed broadband is better in densely built than in scattered strips, and the differences are decreasing; the gap is narrowed. In 2013, when the Workers' Party crashed, had less than 11 pst. of households in spread-built districts offering fibre-based broadband. In 2019, the figure is 45 pst. About 60,000 new households in scattered districts received fibre broadband from 2018 to 2019. Providers are building up too fully, even in the less densely populated areas. But although the offer for a large part of Norway’s population is good and is getting better, of course, we do not settle for it. Therefore, the government implements several measures to ensure good broadband services for all citizens in the future. Therefore, the government has granted grants to broadband this year for approx. 250 million. kr. This triggers total investments for the two years that are likely to exceed a total of 2 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1083	I'm a little surprised that the Minister of Digitalisation uses numbers as 13 pst. I'd like to admit that Einar Gerhardsen – and neither Kåre Willoch – did not build up especially with broadband, so development goes the way that we have to make sure that everyone gets broadband. However, the undersigned are constantly receiving feedback from rapporteurs and residents in District Norway that they are losing access to the copper network before Telenor has established alternative access. This is despite the fact that both the previous Minister for Digitalisation and Telenor have promised that this will not happen. I have repeatedly taken up such situations in this room. The reasons why access disappears may be many, but I would like to challenge the new Minister of District and Digitalisation on how she sees fit to work because the whole country is secure access to broadband all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1088	It is true that Telenor has decided to phase out the copper network by the end of 2022. I have a great deal of understanding that it creates concern, and it creates uncertainty if it's going to be possible to be online as much as we want, all around District Norway. Around 450,000 households and enterprises have today supplied broadband over the copper network. The number has fallen steadily in recent years, and only in the last year has the number dropped almost 20 pst. Telenor does not have universal service obligations on broadband, but Telenor has assured that they will continue to maintain the copper network if customers have no alternative, via the mobile network or other fixed networks, and this applies to both broadband and telephony. There is a close dialogue between the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Telenor to ensure that those affected are maintained in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1093	It is true that the Labour Party has a budget twice as large for broadband development as the government has in it, and the digitisation of public enterprises and public communication with citizens throughout the country is an explicit objective also for the government, both in the health sector, in the education sector and in other sectors where one depends on all citizens across the country having access to high-speed broadband. The development of the 5G network will also require large-scale deployment of fibre networks in the districts, and this will cost more money than the development that has been done so far. How will the Council of State finance this expansion in areas where this is not commercially profitable without transferring these costs to counties and municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1098	Market-based policies, where private broadband actors are mainly responsible for the development and financing of broadband provision, have been in place for many years because it turns out to be very, very successful. Market actors have invested about $9.4 billion. kr in the eco-system and commercial operators shall continue to build broadband at high speed. However, as the representative is involved, there are some places where commercial investments are not based, and then we have to look from the authorities at how we guarantee the citizens an offer. That is why the state also contributes money, and in 2020 the total broadband contribution, as I mentioned earlier, is 256 million. kr. It is a continuation of the high level of funding from 2019, and it contributes to ensuring that all citizens are safe to do what can be done to offer a good enough broadband offer to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1106	‘Freedom is one of the most important glues in our communities. Large distances and lack of collective services make voluntary work more demanding and expensive in the districts. The Labour Party wants people to live throughout the country, and believes that the centralising local government economy undermines the ability of districts to provide good and equivalent voluntary services. What will the Council of State do to ensure that, for example, voluntary centres do not have to be laid down because of the government's lack of willingness to distribute fairly between towns and cities?»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1113	As the representative is well-known, the government will facilitate living communities throughout the country. Volunteering is an enormous force around the village and the city, in small and large places. Not least, volunteering is important to include people in our small and large communities. Voluntary activities create local involvement, community involvement, integration and democratic awareness. That's exactly why government will strengthen civil society, which is built up by volunteering and the non-profit sector. The government will contribute to the growth of volunteering from below, freeing it from political governance and developing on its own premises, through inter alia: broad and unbureaucratic support schemes. It is important that municipalities have good cooperation with volunteering and that this cooperation is based on local conditions. The municipal sector has been strengthened by about 30 billion. kr under this government. It's because we want to enable the municipalities to strengthen their efforts in kindergarten, school and the elderly. The free income of municipalities is distributed through the income system, and that is the distribution to take account of structural differences between municipalities and to facilitate the provision of good and equivalent services to all municipalities to their inhabitants. Municipalities in the districts receive, as is known, additional income through their own district grants in the income system, and in 2020 they account for less than 3 billion. kr. In addition, the benefit of a reduced employer’s fee comes. It also means that districts have good opportunities to deliver good and equivalent voluntary offerings to their inhabitants. Grants to volunteer centres of 131 million. For the first time, kr was included in the framework grant in 2017. In addition, it was reinforced by 20 million. kr. The allocation to volunteer centres has increased every year during this government, and 50 new centres have been established since 2017. In 2020, 200 million will be distributed. kr to municipalities with volunteer centres within the framework grant, based on the number of volunteer centres. From 2021 onwards, it is announced that the funds will be allocated to all municipalities according to the normal criteria of the income system. That's because the government believes in our municipal politicians. We trust that they want to maintain good offers for their citizens and give priority to the necessary funds to the volunteer centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1122	Sometimes I wonder what reality the members of this government really live in, because both our volunteers, our municipal politicians and people out in the countryside are tired of being described and praised by a reality they don't know about. Now we have to go from talking to practice. The reality is that the municipality after the municipality in pig-grown areas, in rural and small municipalities, now has to lay down their volunteer centres as a result of the centralising policy of the government. This does not help to believe in local politicians, because local politicians are now in charge of budgets under the worst municipal arrangement of 15 years. This means that we are weakening communities around the districts. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Council of State think that this is good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1129	I think it is good district policy that few decisions are made here in Oslo. It is good district policy that local politicians know the people and the community best, who know how to prioritise them. As long as the grant to the volunteer centres was not part of the free framework, only the centres were funded. The way other municipalities organised voluntary work meant that volunteering lost a lot of money. Although this is not a statutory service, I believe that politicians from both the Labour Party, the Right and all other parties give priority to volunteering in their municipal budgets because we politicians know how much volunteering means to local communities. I believe that this is a fairer arrangement. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1134	It doesn't help to be threatened when the realities out there of the dear municipal politicians who are going to give priority to a narrower economy than ever, who have already turned the crown four times, are experiencing new cuts from this government. When priority needs to be given between statutory services such as health, school and care for the elderly and, in addition, the contribution to the important function of the volunteering centre is lost, I understand that it goes beyond just volunteering. The government could choose to maintain the grant, so that we had an equivalent framework for volunteering across the country. Nord-Odal has to cut NOK 250000, Stor-Elvdal has to cut NOK 300000, Gjøvik 1 million. kr, Namsskogan 600 000 kr, Overhalla 700000 kr, and Inderøy 450 000 kr. This means that these volunteer centres are laid down, while the big cities keep their own. [[President clubs]] Does the district minister think it is right that the volunteer centres should be set up in built-up areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1139	When I meet local politicians out there, they tell me that they want as little detail as possible from us in Oslo for how to use the funds, precisely because they think they're best placed to prioritise according to local circumstances. We're so lucky to have a solid municipal economy, and that means there are good opportunities to give priority to volunteering. It was in the 2017 budget the signals about this conversion came from the government. It has allowed policy-makers to finance these offers over the years and to invest in how to do so. The scheme has been unfair because only the volunteer centres have received support. Very good volunteer work around the other municipalities has not been accepted. [[President clubs]] It will include in the free framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1144	The President reminds the questioners and the Council of State of dealing with speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1152	‘Many district municipalities experience a joyful increase in visitors. Several of our smallest municipalities have a few weeks in the year where the population is multiplied, like Geiranger, who has 200 inhabitants and one million visitors. The six lovot municipalities have 24 000 inhabitants, and in the summer of 2018 30 000 walkers were registered each day on the most popular mountains. Hauklandstranda in the municipality of Vestvågøy has 300000 visitors, and the municipality has been refused a parking fee of 50 kroner per person. day to cover the costs of emptying toilets and garbage. The right rejects the fact that municipalities may require tourist visits, regardless of the situation. How will our districts be able to take advantage of travel opportunities when the Right in Government does not ensure that it is possible to finance common resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1159	I agree with the representative of Åsunn Lyngedal that it is very positive that the interest in Norway as a destination is increasing. Travel is a very important district industry, and therefore we should do what we can to help the tourism industry create jobs, develop and contribute to activities throughout Norway. We see, for example: What North Lysturism means for North Norway, and what experience tourism and cultural tourism means for our villages and for Coast Norway. Travel contributes to local value creation, employment and better service provision in the districts – including for residents. There is a development that the government will support, and the government prioritises the work for the sustainable development of Norwegian tourism just to create growth and jobs locally. It is important that locals also welcome tourists. We need to ensure measures that contribute to all-year tourism, so that many jobs are created, which in turn brings good welfare to the municipality. We have to contribute to longer seasons and more year-round operation. Having said that, we see that it has brought challenges to the most popular destinations, including: related to safety, logistics, wear and tear and conflicts of interests and considerations. This is especially true in Lofoten, as the representative knows well. They have had challenges over time, and then, of course, they have to be allowed to do something locally. The government has said that we don't want to impose national tourist taxes. That's what the right has also said. However, it is open to the establishment of voluntary local schemes. The right has gone out and said that we do not want national tourist tax, but if the representative had come along, she had registered that the undersigned two months ago was out as a businessman and opened up local visits. The legal framework for payment by users in municipalities allows municipalities to impose charges, fees and self-payment for specific municipal services. This means that both municipalities and landowners can charge for the services provided, whether parking spaces, toilets or other infrastructure. No one is preventing them from doing today. However, the collection will then be directly linked to the service or infrastructure offered — not in general to visitors in the area. Because this is such an important district policy, together with the other relevant state councils responsible for travel life and the development of District Norway, I will look into the possibility for municipalities to establish payment arrangements. Sustainable tourism is important for the regions of Norway in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1174	I have registered what the chairman of the Right Programme Committee has said, but I have also recorded how former Minister of Industry Røe Isaksen has blackened the Business Committee when we dealt with a matter of tourist taxes, common good financing and visiting contributions: totally reprehensible. That's the problem. I hope the signals we get here are positive for the local authorities' ability to cover their expenses. The municipality of Vestvågøy is in an entirely up-to-date situation. They have been refused to use the money for parking for anything other than to refurbish the parking space. It is not possible to use them on toilets or to empty garbage. When you have to empty the toilet three times a day in the high season, it is a huge expense for a small district municipality. Nordland is concerned about this, it is also Visit Sognefjord, who runs a project under the direction of Westland and More and Romesdal, and KS is concerned about the problem. Does the Minister see that a totally reprehensible attitude of the Minister of Industry towards joint good financing could hinder the development of a sustainable travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1183	I think it's important that we distinguish two schemes here. A nationally imposed tourist tax from Stortinget is a bad idea. It doesn't want travel life itself, and there are a lot of municipalities that don't want it. A statutory visit contribution that the municipalities themselves can make when they receive a visit to their municipality is quite different. I am for that, and I also feel that the government will be willing to assess, precisely because it is so important for District Norway. It creates jobs, and it creates growth and activity. In parts of Building Norway, e.g. in Øyer or Hemsedal, we see a huge development and growth in the municipalities because they've invested in ski tourism and are good at it. I think visiting contributions are a good arrangement. It helps to ensure the sustainability of tourism and to avoid the spillage or wear of public goods, which our citizens will also feel like a burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1190	I thank you for your answer. It is very positive to hear, because the Workers' Party is also against a state imposed tourist tax. What we want is a visitation grant and an opportunity for the district councils to get paid. The Council of State's replies could give the impression that there is a legal basis for paying, but the refusal of the municipality of Vestvåg suggests that there may be a need for a legal basis for the municipalities. I would like to invite the Council of State to influence its party to be positive regarding the treatment of Document 8:20 S for 2019-2020, to seek out a possible visitation contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1197	In that case, the representative mentioned from West Wagøy, I think the directorate went in and refused because it was not linked to the service for which they paid, if I remember correctly. But the municipalities can do it within the framework of today, and I think it is very important for those municipalities that feel a burden related to catering and great wear and tear on the common goods. If we are to be able to continue to get tourists from all over the world to Norway to experience our wonderful country, which will also contribute to creating a lot of jobs around the districts, especially hard-pressed jobs in many places, we must also make sure that it does not go at the expense of local communities. That is why, as district minister, I am going to work for municipalities to have this opportunity to make a visitation contribution to a much greater extent than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1207	‘Since its accession, the government has systematically reduced the regional and district policy instruments in the State budget, in particular the regional development funds that the county municipalities have been able to use to create new jobs throughout the country. How will the Council of State strengthen national regional policy instruments in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1214	It is nice to get acquainted with the Municipal Political Spokesman of the Workers Party. I look forward to many good debates in the future on how to jointly strengthen and contribute to growth and development in District Norway. Let me first say that Norwegian business is going well, and many, many, many places in District Norway are doing very well. Last year, 40 000 new jobs were created in the private sector. These jobs came into town and built, and what is pleasing is that, among other things, in the respective home counties of the representative and me, Nordland and Trøndelag – but also in Troms, Finnmark and Inland – we see the lowest unemployment in the country. At the same time, Norway, and in particular its districts, face major challenges in the future. We have to take care of that. I look at this very seriously, because in the districts there are challenges related to demography and lack of competence. There are fewer young people per pensioner, and both business and public activities have challenges to tackle the labour market. The representative is concerned about the decline in regional development funds. Now it is the case that the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation manages targeted regional and regional policy instruments of almost 1.3 billion. kr. Most of the funds are used to boost growth in the regions and districts, for example: corporate loan and grant schemes, clusters and businesses. And as part of the regional reform, county councils are now also given commercial instruments that are important for mobilising and qualifying more businesses and district entrepreneurs into large markets and national support schemes. Successful regional and district policies also require efforts in many policy areas, and we see that over many years, government spending on transport, tax relief, health services, education, research and innovation works – precisely because we see all the new jobs being created along the coast and in our towns. So the government is using $44 billion. for action and for measures that mean enormous amounts for those living in the districts. We've increased the traffic budget by 80 pst. since we took over. When I'm around visiting the companies and talking to people, many people say that the most important thing we can do for them is to continue the efforts the government has on its way and take back the lag that was left after the red-greens when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1229	Despite the three minutes of speaking time of the Council of State, and so many interesting considerations, I did not get an answer to my question. In 2013, there was a budget of 1.5 billion. kr for regional development and innovation. That money is now gone, the last remainder disappeared as a little bit into the frame allocation and is no longer specifically targeted. The Council of State earlier mentioned the need for targeted action in this issue. This was a targeted measure, and the results it has produced are well documented. So I repeat my question: how will the Council of State strengthen the national regional policy instruments in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1234	Now the representative Sivertsen is so tanned after many years in Stortinget that he knows that it is once a year that the government will tell which district and regional policy funds will be strengthened, and that is when the budget is presented. So then Sivertsen will have to wait in suspense. Then I can inform you that when I, the year I've been a nutritionist spokeswoman for the Right here in Stortinget, have visited businesses in all the counties around the country – I don't know how many hundreds of business managers I've met – they tell me the same thing: Protection of the EEA Agreement, keep taxes and charges down, ensure adequate competence, and give us more road and traffic – continue to do so. But it is not a single manager who has ever said: Give us back the regional development funds, make sure to invest in the regional development funds – then you save District Norway, then you save the companies, then you create more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1247	It is possible that it is right for the managers that the Council of State has met. But I also meet many business leaders, and employees, local politicians and regional politicians, who are not only engaged in building businesses, but also in building communities that can facilitate businesses, and they are asking for these tools. I understand that the Council of State does not have any concrete plans to strengthen the national regional policy instruments in the future, so let me ask another question. What role does the Council of State think counties play in facilitating the growth and development of new jobs that provide housing and good life throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1254	I think they play an important role. For this reason, the government in the context of the regional reform has also ensured that the counties have more than 700 million. which can contribute to the growth and development of enterprises and to the creation of jobs, in particular in vulnerable areas. Then I must also remind the representative that in the Regional and Regional Responsibility portfolio of the Minister for Regional and Digitalisation, as part of the Department's regional and district responsibility, we have good instruments such as the business-oriented schemes, such as Competence Pilots, such as clusters and innovation programmes, as competence centres for districts, means of conversion, INTERREG and the Arctic 2030. In addition, when we continue to protect differentiated employers’ taxes and bets on transport, it will mean continued growth and development in District Norway. When I was up in North Norway now, in the brook of the West, it was great to see how on the «extent naked island» really manage to create innovation and technology that few have seen the husband do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1267	‘In the government budget for 2020, the government was able to liquidate the municipal tax collection. With this, many areas of skilled work are disappearing in many district municipalities. Municipalities that we know want more jobs of this type, not fewer. In addition, the government has set up a very tight local economy that will put pressure on the services offered to its citizens, where the result may be down-staffing and poorer offers to people. What will the Council of State actually do to provide skilled jobs throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1274	As a newly-baked district and digitisation minister, I am very happy to have this very issue, because it is so important for further development and new initiatives in our districts. Creating skilled jobs throughout the country is one of the most important tasks of the government. One of the instruments is an active localisation policy. The aim is more public jobs outside the major cities. We need to coordinate relocation, closure and creation of state jobs, so we get a good regional distribution. Skilled work places from the state have to be distributed better across the country than is now done through changing governments. Since 2013, the government has moved or established more than 1 220 jobs outside Oslo. Government jobs are important to strengthen regional labour markets. At the same time, I would like to stress that the municipal sector and private business are the most important carriers in the labour market in all parts of the country. There we find a diversity of skills workplaces. Digitalisation means that we can now and in the future carry out tasks by means of fewer employees. It's a challenge, but it's also an opportunity for the districts. The example of the tax rate to which the representative Hagebakken refers is that efficiency reduces the need for jobs. That also means 370 million. kr saved every year, which we can spend on other things in the districts. At the same time, the tasks are grouped in 56 competences across the country. The efficiency is increasing in several sectors. We should not oppose changes that result in lower costs and greater efficiency. Our goal must be better services and money saved, both in state, state and municipality. At the same time, we must ensure that it is not the same places where jobs are lost every time changes occur in a sector. I'm very concerned about that. Due to digitisation, many of the new tasks are geographically independent. It is important to further pursue policy in this area. They may in principle be carried out anywhere. It offers the opportunity to build environments of competence more places around District Norway than you've ever been able to. The government is now preparing pilots to strengthen cooperation between smaller departments of state agencies in the regions. By establishing new co-located clusters of competences, the overall public sector in the regions can be strengthened. Such a professional environment will facilitate the retention and recruitment of the State budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1287	Here, it is obvious that it is likely to lose more than what the savings gain is. Local tax offices are, of course, a very well-functioning system — very efficient and with good target achievement. Local recovery has made it easier to use local knowledge, which is now disappearing. Here builds down skills and jobs in the municipalities. This is an obvious centralization on the part of the government — this too, as so much as other. There is reason to question the government’s expected efficiency gains. This might as well result in lost income, as I said. Just look at Denmark, which has suffered enormous losses due to less efficient collection. Does the Council of State see the risk she is running, and how unfortunate is this for Municipality and District Norway – yes, I would simply say district enemy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1294	It is clear that the consequences of job losses are greater for a small labour market than they are for a large one. In itself, there is talk that the agencies should choose to maintain jobs in the smaller areas. The Guidelines on State Localisation, which deal with remedial measures, state that the impact on the labour markets that lose State jobs is to be assessed. In the case of major structural changes, departmental departments are now responsible for assessing the need for remedial measures. That is why I am very pleased that one has now chosen to promote regional and regional policy in the government, and that we have split up the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, so that we have also got our own district minister who can ensure that when each department and government council makes decisions in its field, it is necessary to look at the impact this has on the districts, especially government jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1301	I am really concerned about the legitimacy of the collection, and that it is being challenged when the possibility of dialogue with the audience is being reduced. Nor is it likely that from 1 June this year, government intervention is necessary to strengthen the work against the black economy and the crime of working life. One is at risk of poorer contact with the business community and a weakening of control. I am in no way reassured by what I hear the district minister say, and – again – the great danger of great losses when the municipality will no longer collect its own taxes. This is also fundamental to the autonomous, maritime role of municipalities. Does the Council of State see that this represents a bad start on her entry as a district minister, and that it is all poorly justified on a professional basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1306	This decision has been made, and the government is standing by it. It has been done before my time, but I promise the representative Hagebakken that I will accompany the work done by any Council of State on the decommissioning of skilled jobs or measures that have consequences for the districts, even if it looks good to each sector in itself. This is my job in the government, among other things. to see how the whole of the policy we are pursuing is turning out in the districts. The government wants a bet in the districts. Now, when we see that there is a shortage of skilled labour, we're doing something about it. That is why we are now setting up Competence Pilots – to link the needs of companies for skills and the ability of education to train citizens. Having engineers, having nurses, having people available to work in the marine environment, is important for growth and development further in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1316	‘What are the State Councils planning to do to ensure jobs, competences and value creation in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1321	Business in many districts is going well, and people live where the values are and are being created. It makes strong businesses and living communities a competitive advantage for Norway, and it is important that we politicians too are involved in communicating. Because we have innovative businesses, we have jobs, and we have knowledge environments all over Norway. These are the strengths on which we must build. The government prioritises a business-enhancing tax policy and pursues a broad research and innovation policy. A good community economy provides the basis for good services and public jobs throughout the country. Active localisation policy provides a basis for a good regional distribution of state jobs. Since 2013, the number of persons employed in the municipal sector has increased by 6.6 pst. Good and stable access to electronic communications is precisely a priority for people to live and work where they want and for businesses to create jobs and values across the country. The system of differentiated employer charges is continued and the EEA Agreement provides for access to markets for rural industries such as fisheries, aquaculture, energy and tourism. At the same time, sectoral industrial policy is so important for the development of districts, and there is some background for the government to reduce a public body to assess the importance of industry for living and sustainable communities. The continued development of districts depends on the exploitation of natural resources in the sea and on land. The Granavolden platform shows that the sustainable use of natural resources must also have a positive impact on local communities. Because we are totally dependent on community communities that facilitate the development of industries, and I want to work to ensure that communities get a greater share of the value creation and more of the interventions being done. This is badly needed income for the municipalities around our districts. Access to adequate and relevant labour is an ongoing challenge. In particular, the challenges are caused by a sharp increase in the number of older people, and demography is also taking place in the thinnest parts of the country. There will be stronger competition if necessary, qualified labour. An important step in the reform of competences is to stimulate the development of flexible provision of further training and make lifelong learning more accessible. The reform of competence also supports the strategic and coordinating role of the county councils in regional competence policy, so the government invites municipalities to participate in pilots to link the demand from the enterprise to competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1334	This was a nice performance of what could have been a poem, but as politics I think it was actually a lot weaker. It is a tribute of the districts and a tribute of the status quo, and there is very little action being warned. I almost have to ask: what does the government think a district is for something – what is a district? It is relevant to ask about it, for example: in connection with the relocation of state workplaces. We saw it quite concretely when it was about the police's new payroll and accounting centre. The year in India was current, but was rejected because it was part of Oslo's housing and labour market region. This setting has been set instead of Drammen. It's a pretty big town. From Drammen there are time routes to Oslo, and it takes half an hour. From the year one train goes an hour, and it takes almost one and a half hours. Then one almost has to answer why the government thinks that the drama is more district than the Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1339	I think the definition of district varies a lot. Many people would say that you live outside Oslo, you are often districts, and you live close to Trondheim, but not within the municipality border, you feel that you are a little district. That is why we need a policy that works for the whole country, which ensures that jobs are created, and that there is development and growth. In the allocation of State jobs, the government — before my time — has made assessments of how the whole country will have a more balanced distribution of state jobs than it has today. There I know that Drammen has not come out very well, so the election fell on Drammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1346	It's still a mystery to me how Drammen can be more district than the Year. What the government council's in on is that there's one outside of Oslo, can be district some time. Anyway, both Jaren and Drammen are outside Oslo. The years are only considerably further away from Oslo than Drammen does. The drama is a nice city, there's nothing to say on it. But how can one still get a position associated with the relocation of state jobs that points to the Drammen and not to the Jaren, stating that Jaren is part of the bus and labour market region of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1351	As the representative knows, I joined the government a week and a half ago, and in terms of decisions, discussions and reasons for decisions made by the government, and for which I did not have constitutional responsibility, such as the policy of relocation, it is difficult for me to stand and talk about and explain in detail why the government did what it did. I am concerned that, in the future, we will be very careful to ensure that when we talk about state jobs being moved out, it is not just going to be done to the big cities, where there is enough competence from before – skills jobs are important to distribute across the country if we are to be able to build up skills environments. The issue of the court structure – a matter that becomes very important to the districts – is not only about the courts, but also about valuable competences that are lost in the districts if you want to follow a hundred percent of the proposal that is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1359	‘The Court of Justice, which has examined the structure of the courts, has made a proposal which could lead to a large-scale centralisation of the courts of the country. The closures could lead to a longer route for people and local businesses who need their legal clearance. How will the Council of State take care of regional considerations in the further process of the judicial structure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1366	The Government has not yet taken a decision on the follow-up to the Court of Justice’s investigation. The Government does not consider the specific proposals of the Commission and does not make changes to the structure until the investigation has been at the hearing and all interested parties have been given the opportunity to comment. Any proposals for amendments will be submitted to the Stortinget. The fact that the investigation has not been sent to the hearing is simply because the government has spent time reviewing the investigation carefully. The Government assesses whether an alternative proposal should be submitted at the hearing, precisely in order to ensure the proper functioning of the districts as well as to give consideration to considerations other than those of a purely judicial nature. The Commission’s proposal is not an expression of the government’s policy, although some have tried to present it this way. It's a purely professional recommendation. Nevertheless, the Court Commission points to some of the challenges that we take seriously and do something about. The National Audit Office also considers that the potential to streamline the rights of way has not been exploited to a greater extent. We must have two thoughts in our head at once — there is room for change, and at the same time work will be done to ensure that the people receive the services they need, and the requirement of fundamental legal certainty will be met. District reasons, as the representative asks, are one of several reasons for which the government will focus on the follow-up. The government is committed to ensuring that citizens throughout the country have a good and equivalent court offer. The quality of the justice system is essential for the legal certainty of the citizens, and there will be the direction of the government in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1377	Thanks for the answer. It is possible that the position of the Court of Justice Commission is not a direct expression of the government's policy, but it may be that there is a consequence of the government's policy, for the courts, as the rest of the justice sector, is strongly pressured by major cuts made over the years by the right-wing government. Does the Council of State feel that there can be a link between funding and the ABE reform that can underpin this large-scale centralisation and the abolition of district rights and land parcels across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1382	Urbanisation and centralisation are probably not what we see as a trend just in Norway; it happens all over the world. In every country, people are moving towards the cities. Society is evolving, and as a society we have to be able to hang out with. Nevertheless, we are so concerned about Norway that we should give our population the opportunity and space to live throughout the country, especially because Norway is a country rich in natural resources. It is very important for us to be able to create jobs where resources are – jobs that can lead to incomes to the municipality and ensure that people can live around Norway. In this case, there are many considerations to balance, and of course, high legal certainty for all of our citizens is very important. High trust in the courts is an absolute objective for all those living in a state of law. I also believe that we need to be open so that the courts can be arranged smarter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1389	The Council of State argues that the government is on a sound decision-making basis when there is a need for any change in the structure of the courts. The opposition here at Stortinget is also very concerned about this and therefore believes it would be wise to deal with the structural part and the quality part from the Commission's position as a whole, just to ensure that you do not have a large-scale centralization and the abolition of property rights across the country. Would the Council agree that it would make sense to see content together with structure when the Storing and Government are about to deal with the Commission's suspension?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1396	However, before part two of the Commission’s decision is taken, there is a good reason to make a decision. The government is committed to ensuring that citizens throughout the country have a good and equivalent court offer, and the quality of the courts is crucial to the legal certainty of citizens. I stress that district concerns should be taken care of – and become important for the government to take care of – when we deal with this matter. In a court of law, not only is a court of law; there are also areas of competence related to the Court of Justice. As district minister, I am going to put great emphasis on this when we are going to deal with this matter. At the same time, we need to ensure that the courts become effective and provide a qualitatively good offer to the citizens, who are entitled to good judicial procedures. It'll be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1406	As a representative of the northernmost district of Norway, I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for District and Digitalisation on the job. My question is: ‘For District Norway, transportation and communication are essential for housing and positive economic development. Norway has a large lag in the maintenance of the county roads, scheduled for more than 60 billion. kr. Do the Council of State agree that upgrading the county roads is essential for the positive development of the whole of Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1415	The government will facilitate living communities and growth throughout Norway. Good transport is crucial to development. Good transport is essential in order to make it possible to live and live in District Norway, and not least in order to allow companies to take advantage of competitive advantages. Appropriate, efficient and safe transport is important for everyday life for people and businesses. Good infrastructure and good transport services link different parts of the country. An increasing proportion of the population also lives in smaller central municipalities in agglomerations, district centres and regional centre of gravity. Rapid and safe connections are important for freight transport and passenger travel. That is why I am pleased that the budget for transport has increased from 41 billion. In 2013, when we took over as a government, for over 75 billion. kr in 2020, i.e. an increase of over 80 pst. It was absolutely crucial because it was simply a completely overlooked sector of transport we took over, where the county roads were starving feed, that was as far as it was asphalt on the roads, and it was terrible for business to get ahead quickly and safely. Therefore, the government increased the part of the framework grant justified by upgrading and renewal of the county road network to over 1,5 billion. in 2020. The funds are provided with a separate breakdown within the framework grant and the distribution is based on a survey of the maintenance kit run carried out by the State Road Service. Between 2014 and 2020, a total of €8.7 billion has been allocated. NOK at this bet, in nominal kroner. It is the county itself that prioritises its road infrastructure in the counties. The counties have the opportunity to see different infrastructure investments and priorities in the context of larger areas, and the consideration of regional assumptions and needs can be better addressed. The Granavolden platform shows that the government of the upcoming NTP will assess how the State can help to ensure that some highways with a high share of heavy cars and exports can best be upgraded. In the context of the work on the new NTP for 2022-2033, the Ministry of Transport has asked the transport modes and establishments to identify the routes that are of the greatest importance for business transport. Furthermore, the 2020 budget is set at 100 million. kr for the establishment of a system of grants for county roads of particular importance for commercial transport. The objective of the scheme will be to improve the promotion and competitiveness of business. The scheme shall stimulate the improvement of county roads which are of particular importance for business transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1428	It is correct, as the Minister says – the budget for transport has increased by large sums. But at the same time, it's demonstrably clear to everyone who travels around this country, that there's a big difference in the standard on the highways and the county roads. We can see that when we travel around. Does the Minister think that measures are needed to correct this imbalance in the standard between national roads and county roads? And in case she thinks it: What measures should be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1433	There has been a large investment precisely because regional development funds have been reduced, which the Workers' Party is very busy with, and turned it over to bet on the county roads and gave the county municipalities the opportunity to renovate their county roads. There has been a clear feedback from the county councils around that if you are to be able to have businesses off the coast, up in the countryside and on the mountains, you need to have affordable county roads, so that the trails get there. By 2020, we're going to spend 1.9 billion. kr on renewal and upgrading of county roads and repair of tunnels. As I said, we're proposing 100 million. kr to a subsidy scheme for county roads that are important for the transport of food and we will continue to invest in government transport, together with the county municipalities, which will also give priority to their rural roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1440	The minister says that the county councils are given the opportunity to rust up the roads, but then it is very strange that the aftermath is the way it is. 60 B.C.E. kr, as I wrote, was a low estimate. The Association of Machine Entrepreneurs estimates that it is 90 billion. kr i lagp. It's a huge aftermath around the country. If the logic of the minister is that there has been enough money from the state to the county councils and the delays on the roads only increase and increase, then my question to the minister is: what is the reason for increased delays if there is no lack of money in the county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1445	As I said, this government has increased its traffic budgets by 80 pst. There is a reason why we had to give so much priority to the state budget for transport, and that was when the Workers' Party crashed, including. SV, there was no more road, no more race protection, no more tunnel protection that was the first priority. The behavioral wager seemed to be almost at the bottom of the priority list. That is why it is a formidable task to be able to get our infrastructure up to the level and standard that it should have had, so that it is possible for businesses to operate efficiently, and that it is possible for residents living in the districts to drive safely and safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1453	I would also like to start by congratulating the Council of State on the appointment. ‘Similar framework conditions are an important instrument of rural policy. The natural resources we're going to live on, are in the district, and if we're going to get the products out to the market, we depend on good infrastructure all the way to the farm. Now parts of the construction industry in our district are warning of a concern. They have to cancel people, county councils don't have the means to build a road. There will be fewer and fewer road projects on which they can compete. How will the Council of State contribute to the return of the county to regional development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1462	Thank you for the congratulations from the representative of Leirtrø. The counties report that they are mainly on the route of their planned projects on the county roads. In addition, the road budget is bigger than ever before, and there is a lot of activity across the country. The government will facilitate activity and the continued development of communities throughout the country. Good transport is important for the development of districts. Appropriate, efficient and safe transport is important for everyday life for people and businesses. The county is a central player in the development of good and coherent infrastructure. Measured on the road length, highways account for approximately 20 pst. and county roads about 80 pst. of the total national and county road network. The part of the joint road administration relating to the county road is wholly transferred to the county municipalities. It is the county itself that prioritises its road infrastructure in the counties. The counties have the opportunity to see different infrastructure investments and priorities in context in larger areas, where consideration of regional assumptions and needs can be better addressed. The government is committed to facilitating that county municipalities have framework conditions and the economy to discharge their responsibilities. The counties, seen as a whole, have had good economic performance in recent years and are entering 2020 with a good financial basis. In the period 2013-2018, the average annual real growth in free revenues was 0,9 pst. The county authorities have also had unexpected high tax revenues in recent years, contributing to a good economy. With the regional reform, county authorities have been given increased responsibility for tasks and instruments that are important for regional development — tasks, among others. related to competence, industrial development, integration, public health and agriculture. The new county structure allowed for the dissolution of the road administration, and the new county municipalities have now been given their own road administration. Regional priorities can be effectively implemented. I believe that the county councils are at the heart of regional development and positive social development in all parts of the country. I believe that this is clearly recognised by the regional reform, and the reform provides a basis for a more holistic priority adapted to the needs of the population and industry in different parts of the country. At the same time, I see that it is important to ensure that the sector provides regional space for action and contributes to coordination of regional efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1479	When the Council of State says that county councils have been given increased room for action, that is not true, even if they have increased their finances. The counties have an obligation to meet the requirements of the tunnel safety regulation by 2025. Most of the roadways in the future will agree to this. There's still six billion missing. kr. Several investigations say that the fallout on the county roads increases by 2.4 billion. kr every one year. More floods, race and extreme weather make the situation extra critical. Our natural resources, from which we're going to live, are down priorities, and it doesn't help with small individual projects. Can we now expect a change in priorities, now that we have got our own district minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1484	The districts shall be properly cared for in all cases and decisions dealt with by the government. It is important for the government that we now contribute to strengthening those municipalities and districts that do well. Then we have to do more of what we know works, and that's to give companies the opportunity to sell their goods on the markets, it's to get the fish moving through good road construction, so that the trailer doesn't end up in the ditch, and there's access to competence. Then we have some areas that are struggling with persistent unemployment, and that are struggling with challenges related to the fact that there are not enough jobs. Then we have to go in and see what we can do to make these areas better developed and able to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1491	I also want to address the concerns in the construction industry. In 2018, we had the largest share of bankruptcies since 2009 in the construction industry. This increased in 2019, and mostly in More and Romesdal. And the concerns continue. Only in January this year we had 30 more bankruptcies than we had in January last year. The construction industry in the district says they are struggling with profitability and getting a job. This government has prioritised major national road projects over county roads and regional development. Our districts are thus losing important jobs, and as a result, relocation is increasing. Does the Council of State see this challenge, and what action will the government now take?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1498	I was visiting More and Romesdal yesterday, with the Minister of Transport. We were all over Aukra, and we were in Molde, and the politicians who told us were, "Continue to bet on transportation." It's the most important thing for the value-creating community of More and Romesdal, it's the most important framework that we can still build together the housing and labour market regions, so that people can commute – without such high ferry prices, well to mark – and so that it's possible to move your jobs. Now we're cleaning up the county roads. We have a historical commitment to transportation – which we have had for many, many years. So I've registered by reading in the newspapers that the big contracts on the road haven't gone to the smallest contractors, but as long as we've got speed in the economy, jobs are created and businesses are paying, it's good for the whole of District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1510	«A quality of Norway is that it lives people throughout the country. But in order for it to live in people throughout the country, there must also be homes throughout the country. In many district municipalities there may be risks of building a new dwelling. It may be that the construction cost of a new dwelling far exceeds that of the dwelling if it has to be sold. What will the Council of State do to reduce the economic risk of building new housing in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1517	For the government, it is important to facilitate the possibility for everyone to have a self-contained dwelling. Everyone should have a place to live. It's fundamental to living a good life. Fortunately, many people in Norway own their own homes, and we have very few homeless people. It is a result of a good housing policy over several years, a policy in which as much as possible can own their own housing. The social housing policy of the future must be targeted and knowledge-based – and most importantly, it must ensure that everyone has a safe and good housing. The loan scheme from the Husbanken shall contribute to the financing of housing in the districts. Loans in excess of the mortgage value of the dwelling are normally not granted through the housing bank's lending arrangements, but exceptions to that rule may be made in the districts on an individual basis. In this way, loans from the Husbank facilitate financing in areas of the country where private credit institutions fund little new construction, because the market value of newly built dwellings is consistently lower than the construction costs. The exemption from the rules on the maximum lending rate in the districts applies to all Husbanken’s borrowing schemes covered by the provisions on loans from the Husbanken. On behalf of the District Research Centre, the Velferdsforskningsinstitut NOVA has looked at the results and gains of housing investments in a sample of district municipalities. One of the main findings of NOVA was that the State can make a positive contribution by facilitating cooperation between municipalities and private actors, specific State grant funds and/or ordinary financing instruments of the House Bank. The challenge is not just that housing prices in the districts are too low. The challenge is just as much that the prices in the big cities are too high, and that's what we have to do. Simplifying the housing requirements has made it cheaper to build dwellings, especially small ones. Some large dwelling builders have shown that the changes have lowered the price of some apartments with hundreds of thousands. Many dwellings are now being built, and in recent years housing has been at the highest level since the 1980s. More and more reasonable dwellings allow more people to enter the housing market. The House Bank provides loans to those who will help stimulate the desired development in key social areas that the market itself does not solve. These relate to loans for limited purposes, such as loans for housing quality, loans for the disadvantaged on the housing market and loans for student housing and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1528	It was a little difficult to get what the district minister would actually do to reduce the financial risk. When, for example, are out talking to the rapporteurs around the country, reporting on young people travelling to the city for education, who would like to establish themselves in their municipality of origin – perhaps even having a job – but who do not see that they can neither get a loan from the House Bank, because starting loans can only be granted to disadvantaged people, or can build a dwelling without having to take a difficult risk. They don't dare take that risk, because if the family doesn't thrive, they might see themselves having to sell a dwelling that they'll get a much lower price for than they've given it to carry it out. So what can the district minister actually do to reduce this risk to a small-child family that wants to establish itself in the home municipality of one?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1533	The construction costs of housing in the districts, to which the representative referred, may be higher than the value of the dwelling, and the housing prices in the districts are lower, preferably in both the towns and coastal municipalities. It's positive, given that we want a large influx of young adults back into the districts. So in this way, low housing prices are beneficial for people in the establishment phase. What is important to also reduce urban pressures – because this is very closely related to the housing market as a whole – is that we need to build more dwellings at a lower cost. That's why we also simplify construction regulations, we change planning processes, so it's going to be faster to build homes around the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1540	The red-green government took the districts seriously and worked actively for living settlements. This is why we have been investing in housing in the districts to stimulate the increased provision of different types of housing and to find strategies to increase the movement in the housing market. The experience with the project was increased competence in municipalities and good knowledge sharing. From 2012 to 2014, 284 new dwellings were built in the bet municipalities and in 2014 115 additional grants were awarded, and the Council of State also spoke of State grants as a solution to this problem. My question is therefore: why did this project stop when the blue-blue government came to power?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1547	However, the house bank continues, even if the housing grant was cancelled. In 2015, the Husbank continued its work on housing challenges in the districts, also because it is important for us that, after finishing education, young people do not remain in the city but want to move back to their village or to their municipality of origin. Then there shall be access to dwellings. Methods and models of cooperation and housing that were developed and established through experiments funded by grant schemes were continued and disseminated. Together with district centres, they will reach, inter alia: start a project for age-friendly housing and housing in district municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1557	Let me also congratulate the co-representative of Hofstad Helleland on a new and important government post. ‘There are considerable differences in the distribution of the state cultural effort between different parts of the country. How will the Council of State contribute to a more even distribution, so that Norway as a whole has a good supply of cultural experiences and activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1566	Thank you very much for the congratulations of the representative Giske. A rich and varied cultural life is a prerequisite for freedom of expression and a well-functioning democracy. The government believes that cultural life, volunteering and the media are independent building blocks in society. Sharing in cultural activities is valuable for the individual, because culture engages and contributes to building identity and bridges between people. Culture develops communities and Norway as a nation. Cultural policy contributes to the promotion of creativity and innovation, which is why cultural policy is important in order to create attractive communities throughout the country. A job is important if you are to move out, but you do not move to an exciting job if there is no library there, or a cinema or a cultural offer nearby that gives life a rich content. The total appropriations for the Ministry of Culture budget are close to 20 billion. in 2020. In addition, the transfers for cultural and sporting purposes come from the surplus to Norwegian Typing. Government transfers to culture in Norway are overall very high, compared with other countries. Public support schemes for culture in Norway are built over a long period of time and form part of an interaction between the different levels of government — state, state and municipality. It must therefore be seen in a larger context, taking account of historical circumstances. The most important thing is not necessarily whether it is the state, the county or the municipalities that have been given the responsibility for funding, but that we have an infrastructure that means that people throughout the country have access to high-quality art and culture. I believe that we have in Norway today, and it is very important that it continues. As a district minister, I am concerned that we should have a good cultural offer throughout the country, available to everyone. The government has therefore announced in the Culture Communication that we will look into the relationship between the different levels of government and which bodies will be responsible for what. Here we have had extensive work and dialogue with the actors involved, and we are going to come back to the municipal proposition with a proposal on how this organisation should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1581	The Council of State is in the unique situation that she is the only one who has been both Minister of Culture and Minister of Digitalisation and District Affairs, so she has a good starting point in order to be able to take part in the following issue: we see that there are enormous differences in how the national cultural crowns are distributed around Norway. Everyone is paying over the tax bill, but not everyone gets the same amount again. The big main gravity, even per capita, goes to the capital. It's not unnatural since you have capital tasks, you get opera buildings, you get national museums, you probably have to clean up the National Theatre. The more important it is to bet elsewhere. We have invested in the Source in Kristiansand, we have invested in large concert halls in Stavanger, in Rockheim in Trondheim, as the Council of State knows, and the Storm in Bodø, but under the current government this has stopped. It's almost not that kind of bet. They are equally unevenly distributed, and the question to the Council of State is: How will she, as Minister of State, ensure that this is balanced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1586	The budget increases for 2020 are about 610 million. kr in the field of culture, and many of the largest amounts of the cultural budget go to many of the major cultural institutions, the national institutions in our capital, which former Minister of Culture Giske was also involved and took the initiative to travel. It is important because the national institutions should have the best conditions for people from all over the country and also international cultural tourists to come to Oslo and Norway. Of the cultural budget for this year, we see that the biggest increases are actually the Nordic countries, it's the Inland, it's the Moor and the Romsdal, it's the West, and it's the Viking. Oslo's getting pretty far down on the list.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1593	There's no one who's against us going to bet on culture in Oslo. It is enormously invested, and so did it under the Cultural Promise. But the more important it is to have a strategy for other parts of the country to take part in a similar promise. This is largely about structures, and the Council of State was involved in infrastructure in its first response. One of the reasons why there is much less money going to the Inland or to the Nord-Trøndelag in relation to South-Trøndelag, or to North-Norway or to Sogn and Fjordane or Westfold and Telemark, which is also an area that gets little, is that they have no or few of these big institutions that draw a lot of money. That's why we contributed to the creation of the Arctic Philharmonic in my time, that's why we contributed to the Inland Theatre, to the Tournament in Trøndelag, to the node like Notodden, etc. But now these nodes are liquidated. Minister of Culture Hofstad Helleland had no strategy to further develop this type of heavy infrastructure across the country. My question is whether District Minister Hofstad Helleland has such a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1600	I can also explain why we couldn't put so much money on the table for the major cultural institutions in the district. For example, we had to spend large sums on the Swedish Archives Agency, which was not so well cared for by former cultural ministers. There were some infrastructure, including the National Library, that we had to attend to. But now leave it. I am very pleased that the government will now look during the spring at the funding related to the cultural institutions and the level at which it will lie. I am very pleased that former Minister of Culture Trine Skei Grande has set up a process that has been very different from one in the past, which has been in contact with the leaders of all cultural institutions in Norway, with the municipalities, with the municipalities, in order to reach a common agreement on how we ensure the most culture out to the whole country, the most culture out to the districts, so that the whole population can have access to good cultural services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1610	I would also like to start by congratulating the Council of State on the new post of the Council of State. ‘What are the plans of the State Councils to secure mobile phone coverage and charging stations for electric cars throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1617	Thank you for the congratulations from the representative Heggø. Norwegian mobile networks are constantly being upgraded to provide new and more advanced services, higher data transmission rates and better coverage. Norway has among the fastest mobile networks in the world and very good coverage. According to the latest coverage study, 99.9 pst. of the households outdoor 4G coverage and 98 pst. indoor coverage. The 2G networks have a total surface coverage of 90,8 pst. of the land area and 4G networks 82,8 pst. Household and flat coverage for 4G has increased considerably in recent years. The government has done a lot to facilitate increased coverage. We're facilitating the further development and early introduction of 5G. The frequency auctions have been actively used to facilitate increased development across the country, for example: to stimulate infrastructure competition and at least three mobile networks and increase coverage along selected railway routes, the European road network and the coastline from Mo i Rana to Bodø. Furthermore, all three operators undertook to invest at least 250 million. kr each in improved coverage in exchange for deferred payment of the auction proceeds. By 2020, there will be 256 million. kr for broadband development grants in areas without a commercial basis for development. The scheme may also be used for the development of mobile broadband. The government will work to ensure that Norwegian mobile networks will continue to be good on an international scale. We will continue to facilitate too high investment across the country and assess new measures and incentives. We are going to provide a big message about electronic communications, and we want to do this work, among other things. assess new measures for increased competition and coverage throughout the country. Electrification of the transport sector is central to the government’s climate policy, including in the districts. We are currently in an international special class in the phase-in of electric cars. In Norway, fortunately, the vast majority of people have a homeload, especially in the districts. Enova is following developments in the charging market and adapting its programmes to build them up in a commercial charging market and to help put in place the necessary infrastructure. From 2015 until today, Enova has given over 70 million. kr in support of approximately 239 charging stations for electric cars along the main stages and in municipalities with less than two high speed chargers already. It has helped to establish a basic national charging infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1636	Thanks for the answer. I understand it almost so that the Council of State is satisfied with its own efforts and the coverage of the telephone and broadband. It's just that if a cage in the district or in a city is equally dependent on a stable mobile phone network. The refurbishment of the copper network really revealed that there are still large dark spots on the map. On questions from the representative, Leirtrø, about a farmer who had to go down because of a lack of warning that the telephone network was down, the council replied that the farmer should have had two subscriptions to be on the safe side. Does the Council really think that we need to secure more subscriptions in the districts, or will the Council of State take concrete steps to secure stable and secure telephone networks in the districts as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1641	We are privileged in Norway, because international rankings show that Norway is very advanced in the provision and use of broadband and the Internet. According to Nkom’s coverage study, 99.8 pst. of all the country's households offering coverage of 10 MB per second. But like the representative Hegø, I have also experienced some holes, e.g. on the cabin, and there's nothing so annoying as when you get out of the net – precisely because we've added to very good habits. The fact that the government is now prioritizing well over 200 million. kr for broadband expansion for 2020, is very important. In scattered strata, developments are particularly joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1646	Plans must be followed up by concrete measures. In the districts, we will also be involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the use of more electric cars. This requires charging stations - many more charging stations are required. The charging plan that came last year, lacks complete measures, according to the Elbil Association. There were two things that were particularly drawn forward. One thing was that the power has to change significantly. The second was that priority must be given to the system of advance payments. The county of regional development could have been an aid, but these funds have been completely removed by the government. They don't exist anymore. Will the Council of State strengthen national regional policy instruments or take other concrete action?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1651	Enova is an important contributor. They will be the State’s instrument in support of publicly available fast chargers. About 75 pst. of the households in Norway are able to establish electric cars at home. That's a good starting point. In addition, 12-13 pst. private parking spaces within 100 metres of home. The government is concerned that the development of alternative fuel infrastructure should be market-driven and, at the earliest possible stage, unaided, but Enova is strongly committed to making our electric car policy possible, not least in terms of charging stations and infrastructure for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1659	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State, Hofstad Helleland, as the newly appointed Minister for District and Digitalisation. This is a newly created post in the government, and there are great expectations among peoples that there will be a major change in district policy: ‘In October 2019, the Council unanimously adopted the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that higher education institutions give priority to their regional responsibilities and decentralised education throughout the country.’ How will the Council of State ensure that this decision is followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1668	I would first like to thank the representative Asphjell for his warm congratulations. In Norway, we have a higher education sector characterised by a decentralised structure. It reduces barriers to higher education and allows knowledge to flow more easily between the knowledge institutions and society around it. A decentralised structure is necessary to ensure the competence of the labour market in the various regions. Institutions must contribute to the training of candidates who can cover basic functions in society, such as teachers and health workers. We are in the middle of a wild development where the use of decentralised and online education is increasing. The government has strengthened support for the development and operation of flexible and higher education services, as part of government competence reform. In the revised national budget for 2019 and the 2020 budget, the Stortinget allocated a total of over 90 million. to strengthen access to flexible higher education throughout the country. Education is becoming increasingly available. Online education is not appropriate for all. Some individuals need a professional environment where they can be gathered, as well as drivers to conduct the studies. The many study centres in the country and other decentralised settings of competence offer collective education in a number of disciplines. Universities and higher education institutions are important partners as quality insurers here. The government has set aside over 16 million. kr for a three-year bet on the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation’s budget for Competence Pilots. Competence pilots shall facilitate the provision of relevant continuing training to small businesses in the districts. I would also like to point out that the government has set up a public body to consider proposals to promote business development in the districts. I assume that competence and education will be an important topic for the sample to assess. I am very concerned with the regional and decentralised responsibilities of the educational institutions. My answer is that the question asked by Asphjell requires an overall approach. For me, it is important that education services reach out as far as possible and as far as possible, including those in need of active follow-up. That's why we have to have a variety of offers. All learning platforms need not be the same. For me, it is important to adapt the solutions to regional and local conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1685	District Norway needs more skilled professionals in care and care that can provide good care for the elderly, and more professionally qualified employees in kindergarten and primary school who can provide a safe learning environment for all children in kindergarten and primary school. A decentralised education provision is central to the training of more nurses, more kindergarten teachers and more qualified teachers, but unfortunately the right-wing government's policy has led to more educational institutions being laid down and the provision of study facilities being reduced. The Labour Party believes that a new offensive is needed for more and better accessible decentralised education across the country. Can the Council of State assure District Norway that decentralised education services will not be closed down and that the government will make changes to its district policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1694	I can assure the representative Asphjell that we are going to strengthen the work of ensuring a decentralised study offer. It is very important for the government that a decentralised education provision should help to increase competence across the country. It is enterprises that are clear that further growth, development and job creation are about access to skilled labour. That is why we need to strengthen the link between the needs of businesses and the skills needed out there, and education far more than today. Acquiring valuable skills in your own territory also increases the likelihood of becoming a resident. At that time, valuable skills and experience are available to contribute both at work and in their local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1701	Any digitisation requires robust infrastructure. Eight out of ten Nordics say that broadband and mobile networks are as important as road and rail in a new survey conducted by Telenor. Two out of ten fears that the home might be hanging out in digital development. Now the Telenor Chief warns of major consequences for unridden districts. ‘The study shows that demands for digital solutions are growing and that the deployment of broadband and mobile networks has never been more important. We see that a quarter of the people living in the districts are afraid that the home will be hanging around in digital development. Offensive grip is necessary. Good Internet coverage is the key to preventing districts from being left behind.’ What measures will the Government and the Council of State responsible for this area take to ensure that the districts do not fall behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1711	When it comes to expanding broadband and broadband coverage throughout Norway, I have responded to it two or three times earlier today. Perhaps the representative of Asphjell has also heard that. I'm proud that we're world leaders in terms of coverage. The government is working with increased strength to contribute to good coverage across the country. The question asked by the representative of me was about competence. I am very pleased that the representative did, because in order for the districts to evolve, and in order for us to participate and build up under the violent creative power that is going on out there, the inhabitants must have the right skills, and businesses must have access to it. That is why I look forward to investing more in online, flexible and decentralised education services together with the Minister of Higher Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1727	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on a new post. There will be many congratulations in a short time, but at least that is well meant. ‘There have been serious criticisms of child protection in several areas: violations of human rights, lack of health follow-up, lack of and large turnovers among staff, and the quality is variable. The Labour Party will have more designation of positions for municipal child protection and has proposed a broad and comprehensive reform. The right-wing government's answer is to merge even more municipalities, as Ørmen Johnsen has suggested. What will the Council of State do to ensure that children in districts have an equivalent offer of child protection, irrespective of where they live?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1736	I would like to thank Henriksen for his congratulations. We have worked a lot together to ensure that all children, wherever they live, are entitled to a good offer and help. All children and young people have the right to protection wherever they live in the country. The child protection requirements are governed by the Child Protection Act and the requirements are the same for all municipalities. We know that many municipalities have few employees in the Child Welfare Service – it makes them vulnerable – and that small professional environments and heavy work loads can give rise to a risk of failure in the provision of help to children and families. Therefore, a large and strong professional environment is important. All municipalities must put in place the necessary measures and services for vulnerable children and families. For many municipalities, cooperation with other municipalities will provide good solutions. Many municipalities have established common child protection services. Evaluation shows that employees often experience inter-municipal cooperation as positive, because it leads to a stronger professional environment and a wider range of competences and actions. It is good to have colleagues around them in a very difficult working situation that is demanding too many. I am aware that the Ministry of Children and Family is working on a bill on annual status reporting on the child protection of the local government. Such a requirement shall contribute to ensuring routine information for the administrative and political management of municipalities. And that's important. Here we need committed political elected representatives in the communities who demand and prioritise their child protection. I would also like to mention that the county councillors have important tasks to follow up on child protection in the municipalities and to provide advice and guidance to municipalities. The community also organises dialogue meetings with the political and administrative management of all municipalities to discuss the state of child protection. As part of the government's competence in the field of child protection, county councillors have been assigned the task of establishing cooperation networks between municipalities and managing funds for joint development projects. Last year, the government strengthened this measure by 22 million. In particular, in order to stimulate cooperation between municipalities on the establishment of good guidance and follow-up services for foster homes. The municipalities that face the greatest challenges in child protection are provided with specific follow-up and guidance under the direction of specific guidance teams that sort under the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate. The aim is to help municipalities put in place good forms of work and measures. The results have been good. By 2020, this offer has been strengthened with a view to prioritising the municipalities of the northernmost counties. I can assure the representative that strengthening child protection is one of the government's most important challenges, and with which we work very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1755	One of the key factors in achieving good child protection at municipal level is the municipal economy. The government repeats its mantra that there has never been so much money in the municipalities. And that's right, because the problems have increased. In the case of state councils, town councils: only in the area of child protection, six pages of new tasks have been completed. The government disagrees with giving earmarked funds – government money. I have not heard one rapporteur who does not say that they must have cut welfare services, and this particularly affects the children who live in previously poor municipalities. Now in the new position: What action will the Minister for District and Digitalisation take on the Minister for Municipalities to ensure good budgets for local welfare provision in individual municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1762	We have a good community economy, and it is strengthened under this government. We have to give municipalities the opportunity to employ child-restraint workers with the right skills and employ enough people. It's a heavy burden for those who work in child protection today. That is why since 2014, after we took over from the Workers' Party, the government has employed 1 000 more people in Child Protection. We have legalised post protection for 25 years, and we now know that new child protection law will impose on municipalities an annual status report where the number of employees, the need for competence and the number of cases must be presented to the municipal politicians, as I mentioned instead. Local political responsibility is important, and I have not met one municipal politician who does not say that child protection, which is one of the most vulnerable and vulnerable services, must be given priority. If there are people who are entitled to legal certainty and have the right access to help, it is the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1767	The last thing I think I can say is that the whole Storting is behind it. But it's not enough with good party speeches. The local economy we now have is too poor to provide the most vulnerable children with the help and support they need in their difficult situation. The working party has added over 3 billion. kr more to the local economy. This means, for example: Karasjok had received 1.6 million. NOK more, Kautokeino SEK 1.9 million. SEK and Kväfjord SEK 1.7 million. kr. It is important, because it is precisely in these areas that we have special challenges for children among the indigenous population. There is a great deal of distrust of the public system, and it is necessary for municipalities to really be able to initiate measures that will take individual children. Does the Council of State think that there is wasted money the Labour Party is putting on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1774	The areas specifically mentioned by the representative, Finnmark and Nord-Troms, are part of the action area and have increased appropriations. The municipalities and county councils receive additional funds totalling EUR 2.9 billion. kr. I am concerned that those municipalities that are extra vulnerable and have additional challenges related to vulnerable children should be properly addressed. But this isn't just about money, it's about having to follow up closely with good and competent employees who have to give the opportunity for a good enough education. It's about strong trade unions. But then it's also about the children's rights, which may have been too weak. Child Minister Ropstad has now started work on assessing the health status of children. It should have been done many years ago, and I'm very happy that it's now in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1782	Let me also congratulate the Council of State and give her recognition for her standing and answering questions. She's got a lot, and that's because this is an important topic for people. My question is: ‘In eastern Finland, the population declines and public jobs disappear. At the same time, people feel that the state is withdrawing. An example is the provision of children. An overview of child-care skills in Finnmark, in addition to the municipal offer, shows that almost everything has been added to West Finland. One of the few areas of expertise in East Finland, Vadsø Youth Centre, is now being reduced. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the children of eastern Finland are guaranteed the same offers as children in the rest of the country and to reverse the decline in the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1791	I thank the representative Gahr Støre for the congratulations, and I am very pleased that the Workers' Party wants to spend so much time on district policy and on the opportunities and challenges of the districts in Stortinget. I thank you for all the questions I have received today. All children and young people should receive a good offer in child protection, regardless of where they live. Young people in eastern Finland should have a good offer even if this institution is laid down. Buffetat duty to find the institution most suitable for each young person. In many cases, the youth living in an institution does not come from the district or region in question. Children’s protection institutions are specialised services where quality and internal control of operations are strictly required. Strict requirements for risk assessment and internal control and strict requirements for the competence and experience of managers are laid down. In the specialised institutions, which often have to take care of and help young people who may have been in numerous foster homes and childcare facilities before – where the specialised institutions are part of a number of homes where they have been – difficult childhood and difficult youth must meet with the highest quality in the field of child protection. This means that it is the best professionals and the best leaders in the field of child protection who are going to work at the institutions, because it is children – or young people, we are talking about in this case – who have complex, complex challenges, which have it very bad, and which it is very demanding to work with. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of professional demands and management requirements that have not been followed up, and that this has had fatal consequences. We're talking about a group of young people who need a protection, a treatment and an offer that's particularly good. That's why I'm concerned that the leaders who are going to work at the individual institutions should have a quality that keeps a high standard, and I trust that when the Stortinget, the Ministry and the government have told Bufetat that they are going to make a professional assessment here, it will be done in a good way. I understand that this is going to be challenging for East Finland. These are skills jobs that can have a significant impact on a local environment. There we also have to look at what other measures we can contribute to ensure that we live in East Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1804	Large parts of this answer were really a review of how things should be, and everyone could agree on it. I visited this part of Finnmark a few weeks ago, and I visited municipalities that showed me maps of where there were child-care resources available to these vulnerable young people. There we see it drained in the east, and there's something left in the west. The answer is that Buffetat is responsible, and that the municipalities are responsible, but we also have a responsibility as a state for what is happening in this part of Norway, where the bulk of the population has forced through a merger of Troms and Finnmark. We now see that professional environments east of Finnmark are being tapped. My question is, what does the Council of State think is her responsibility as district minister to follow it up? This is a serious development where we are now talking about the establishment of an institution located in Vadsø in Alta. It's long distances and a particularly complicated state. I am a little more interested in what initiatives the Council of State intends to take – or whether she believes that this is something the Directorate intends to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1813	I hope the Labour Party and the representative Gahr Støre do not want to change the responsibility that the Stortinget and the government have delegated to Bufetat. Policy assessments are not to be based on who is best placed to lead an institution with such a special patient group that has major challenges. What we agree on is that East Finland is experiencing this as difficult because they are being depleted for skilled jobs when, on a professional basis, such an institution is being set up. That's why I'm going to go to East Finland. I'm going to visit public welfare services and businesses and talk to people and local politicians, because there's no doubt that East Finland has gone through a difficult period. As district minister, of course, my primary responsibility is to rejoice for those who do well, but not least also to be there and to be a support and a spokesperson in the work of government and central government to strengthen and maintain the districts in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1822	I would advise the Council of State to take that trip, and I would advise her not to say that she does not hope the Storting should rock in the delegation of responsibility in the case of Bufatat etc. That kind of language is not close to what people experience there. They feel that an institution is being laid down and skills jobs disappear. It's a theme. The second theme is that young people stay unsolicited. It's another big topic, and we need to see that. I would also like to add – so it is good for the Council of State to take that trip – that when the Minister of District is in East Finland, she should also consider that this is a neighbouring area not only to other parts of Norway but also to other parts of Europe. So here we have an area that is now experiencing a vulnerable situation with regard to government officials, and we're neighbors with Russia. I believe it is important to ensure that Norway has authority, approval and legitimacy in those border areas. This is, in fact, something that is bordering on foreign and security policy. A quick visit to that part of the country I strongly recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1829	The first thing I did, two days after I was appointed Minister, was travel to North Norway. It won't be long before I travel to Finnmark, and I'll actually be there for many days. It is a privilege as a district minister to have the opportunity to be in the districts – close to people. I take seriously the concern of the people of East Finland, and I also take seriously the responsibility of the authorities for giving children the best offer in a vulnerable situation. It is not certain that the young people living with that institution are necessarily from East Finland, because Buffetat assesses which institutions throughout the country can offer the best possible range of services to the individual child based on the situation and the challenges and needs of the child. I am very pleased that, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am now responsible for the Northern Territory Communication, where Norway's geopolitical and strategic position is important in the further work, and I look forward to working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1842	Like my colleagues, I would like to begin by congratulating the new minister and wish her every success in her work. My question is: ‘Holgeland is among the regions of the country which will have the largest increase in the number of older people, while at the same time the proportion of working age falls. How are we going to recruit more young people to the region, and how are we going to solve the problem with more and more older people, when the government cuts in decentralised educational services for both nurses and teachers in Helgeland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1851	Thank you very much for the congratulations from the representative Moflag. District Norway is doing a great job, but the representative is addressing two basic challenges that we are facing and that the government is taking seriously. It is the availability of sufficient and relevant labour and the challenges associated with the ageing of an increasing proportion of the population. In particular, the challenge is caused by a sharp increase in the proportion of older people, which is primarily affecting the thinnest parts of the country. The welfare needs of the future also require new working methods and increased use of technology. The public sector needs to work smarter, more efficiently, innovate and digitise more. However, this contrasts with the fact that too many small municipalities still lack the capacity and competence to provide their citizens with the services they require. The government will set down a public body to address the consequences of the demographic challenges in the districts – sorry, we have already done so, so they are in full swing. Maintaining and attracting younger age groups will be crucial for the future of districts. In this context, we have set up a youth panel to advise the government on future district policy. The government implements several measures to ensure good broadband services for all citizens in the future. The level of broadband subsidies is approximately: 250 million. kr both in 2019 and 2020 – higher than in many years. In the revised national budget for 2019 and in the 2020 budget, the Stortingen total allocated over 90 million. to strengthen access to flexible higher education throughout the country. The government does not belong in decentralised training for nurses and teachers in Helgeland. Universities and higher education institutions shall ensure good access to higher education throughout the country and decentralised and flexible services are important instruments. Universities and higher education institutions are themselves responsible for organising activities in order to best meet their needs. For example, Nord University collects and strengthens the activities of Mo i Rana, which is at Helgeland. The organisation of teacher and nurse training at the North University shall provide a sufficient number of qualified applicants from Helgeland, Lofoten and the West eel for annual admission. This should provide a predictable offer and contribute good candidates to the working life of Helgeland. Nord universitet will have good studies and an attractive study environment in Mo in Rana, so that more young people from Helgeland choose to take education in the region. Nord University justifies the structural changes with the need to redeploy resources from infrastructure to professional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1866	People live and live where values are created. I have listened to several of the questions here today, and the district minister has been involved in creating jobs. But it's not just jobs we're going to create, we're going to create community. In Luray municipality in Helgeland, there are fewer than 2000 inhabitants. That municipality had 0.5 billion. kr in tax access. It must have been in 2018, because the figures were from 2019. The companies here are transferring for 4.5 billion. kr. This is enough money that politicians would like to clear up, both tax revenue and turnover, but what should we do to create communities around these companies? It doesn't hold that we have the businesses if we don't have the kindergartens, the schools, the home services, etc. What will the district minister do to ensure that we build communities around these businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1873	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Moflag. It's community, good community, that makes people want to live there. But the whole starting point is that you have to have a job, so leave it at the bottom -- it's absolutely vital that people can live and live in the districts. It is precisely good public welfare services that are the starting point for people to feel safe, to get help when they need it. That's why the government has now decided that Helgeland will have two hospitals, both in Brønnøysund and in Lake Sandness, and that there will also be a district medical centre, as far as I remember, in Mo in Rana. I am already invited to Lake Sandness and have agreed to go there, to Brønnøysund and to Helgeland. There's a lot of amazing value creation going on, but there's also another reason people live there, and that's all the great communities along the Helgeland coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1882	Yes, there is a hospital at Mo and in Lake Sandness and the District Medical Center in Brønnøysund that is the conclusion of the morbidity process. Many people are pleased that more hospitals are still being set up in Helgeland. But then let me give you a final question here. Many people have pointed out that the students who train in the region are staying in the region, that's what the whole gold of decentralised education is. Many people in Helgeland and especially in the municipality of Nesna, who have had high school teachers for over 100 years, fear: Are we able to recruit teachers to these coastal communities, where all this value creation is created? Does the district minister think that we can get more nurses and more teachers to build these communities now after the Nordic University change is brought about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1889	Nord University collects and strengthens its education in Mo in Rana, and for the next five years, the university has an ambition to increase the number of students at Mo in Rana from approx. 500 to 1,000 students. I think that's ambitious, I think that's very good, and I really hope that they succeed. That being said, I have a great deal of understanding of the despair that has caused education to move, because it is a cornerstone of the communities and has meant a lot to both the workplaces and the transfer of students. That's why I'm concerned that now, in all such matters and processes, the district minister should be strongly involved in the future, precisely because the government in our whole work is going to make sure that the districts don't get bad out when such processes happen. Here it was not the government that made the decision, as everyone knows, but it is my job, and I am happy to take care of the districts in a good way in my future job.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1896	Then the Minister for Digitalisation will have a break after answering 17 questions in a row – it says that respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1904	I would first like to congratulate the Council of State on being the Council of State! My question is this: ‘The new Minister for Transport has stated that he will give priority to climate challenges and road safety and make the transport sector more resilient. Upgrading Bergensbanen is such a project. With the Ringeriksbahnen and new double track Bergen–Voss the journey time between Bergen and Oslo will be down to four hours, which will make trains a truly environmentally friendly alternative. Now both projects are threatened by releases. Will the State Council give priority to Bergensbanen with the start of the Ringerik tunnel and K5, as promised by the government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1913	I would like to thank the representative Kjersti Toppe for his congratulations. I thought it was a constructive opposition that gave me the opportunity to debut just by being allowed to talk about Bergensbanen, and as a hordalizing also the important project K5. It is quite right that the representative Kjersti Toppe says. I think that climate challenges and road safety are two of the main challenges we have in the transport sector. In Norway, we have worked well in both areas, and within traffic safety we are in the tip of the world, but there is still room for improvement. If the transport sector is to be resilient, many of those travelling must be shifted to climate-neutral and efficient transport solutions. And as the representative pointed out, the railway is just a solution in that way. My ambitions for the transport area are great. At the same time, this means that we need to ensure that the opportunities for the sector are used in a good way and that there is good cost control in the projects. Both Ringeriksbanen and Vossabanen/Arna–Stanghelle have had a huge increase in costs. Several rounds have been needed, and everyone is aware that we are spending that time in the best possible way to get a solid basis for just confirming the control plan. The initiative on Bergensbanen with the construction of Ringeriksbanen and related double tracks Bergen-Voss are priority tasks for the government. Together, these two projects on Bergensbanen, together with a new Vossaban route model, will reduce travel time by about 1 hour and 40 minutes for the regional train. It will make the long distance train an attractive alternative to flights on the route between Oslo and Bergen, on which the representative Toppe points. At present, there is a proposal for a regulatory plan for the Ringeriksbanen for treatment in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, and the government has a goal of ensuring that the regulatory plans can be confirmed in a short time. Such confirmation of the regulatory plan will facilitate further progress. The Ringeriksban will help to expand the Bu and labour market region in the Austland. In addition, the project will shorten the journey from Oslo to Bergen by less than an hour. For the Arna–Stanghelle section, which is the first step in the construction of the Bergen–Voss double track, about 25 million have been spent in the state budget. kr to the joint project E16 Stanghelle-Arna/Vossebanen. In the present National Transport Plan, the route is described with construction start for the second six-year period and completion after 2029. The ambitions of the NTP, they are fixed for these two projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1928	We are many who have great expectations of a state council from Hordaland when it comes to transportation. I want to say that it is the right government council, but unfortunately in the wrong government. There are also many in the Christian People's Party who have expectations of my very question about Bergensbanen. The government itself stood at the Arna station in 2017 and presented what was going to be the bet. Then it was met with disappointment in Hordaland, because it was a postponement compared to what was expected. I know that Hordaland Christian People's Party was among those parties that reacted strongly. The current State Council stated to the Bergensavisen in March 2017: ‘I have registered impatience and dissatisfaction from an overall annual meeting. This means that my task is to prioritize K5 road and track.» Now it's about an additional postponement, so does he want to repeat that insurance to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1938	There is no doubt that the K5 priority is fixed. So the complexity of this work has turned out. It is also a government plan for the project, and the regulation plan will work on it. This is a plan to present this during 2020. So it's a project – now I'm talking about what's west of the mountain – of 15 billion. kr, there is a large project that we are forced to have control of. There is no doubt that the two projects on which the representative Top points will give a whole new dimension to Bergensbanen and reduce travel time. We have prioritised these projects in NTP, and now we're working on a new NTP. It is the great work that the Ministry of Transport is working on. We're going to get our result in the spring of 2021. That's where we finally get progress on these projects, but our ambition is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1943	It's not just the railway that's special about K5; it's that there's going to be a joint project between road and track. The E16 is in the NRK's investigation into Norway's worst road and, according to the State Road Service, is the fourth most racially dangerous road. Many people are just as busy with K5 because of the rabid road as if they wanted a more modern railway. The uncertainty in the West is that we hear there's a huge increase in costs between Arna and Stanghelle, from 14 billion. DKK to 25 billion NOK – at least that's the last thing I've seen. With a cost overrun on all railway projects, we wonder if the Council of State sees the value of prioritising life and health first because of the combined challenge of this particular route.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1948	I think this project is a good one, but we're familiar with the challenges of cost increases. Real building start is a little ahead of time. So we're going to have to do things now, so we're going to do things pretty fast. Therefore, in the short term, tunnels are to be upgraded and several measures against race are to be implemented on the Voss-Stanghelle route. By 2022, it may also be necessary to provide minor repairs and tailor-made fuses on the E16 Voss-Arna section, precisely from the perspective pointed out by the representative Toppe. Yes, this is an important project. Our ambition is firm. Obviously, this is a project that will clearly be part of the NTP, and it is the final definition when we get to NTP in a year, which gives the final results of these projects. But so far the ambitions of the government are fixed for these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1958	I'd like to start by giving the best wishes to the Minister of Transport with a new job. Not surprisingly, my question today is on ferries: ‘Travelers in Hordaland and along the whole coast are in an unsustainable situation. From the new year, ferry fares have increased in the order of 35-40 pst. This extra cost is so great that the inhabitants of the districts now have to move or change jobs to make the economic game go up. In what way will the Council of State ensure that the ferries and county do not stand alone with the large additional costs incurred in the conversion to low and zero emission technologies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1967	I would like to thank you for the congratulations from one sun-hord landing to another. The representative Hans Inge Myrvold comes from a holiday municipality and will know exactly this challenge on the body. We have been through a period of competition with many ferries in both national and county road ferries. The results of this have been good in several ways, but we have also received a strong increase in costs in the last few years. There's more to it than that. One thing is the requirement for zero and low emission technologies where it is convenient. In this field, the state has done a great deal of work, and the municipalities follow. But the increase in costs comes from other things as well. New contracts also make better provision. Fuel prices and crew costs have risen, and not least we have seen a formidable renewal of the ferry fleet. The renewal has given a total of 60 new buildings and contracting entities after 2015. The cost shall be covered, but it is not such that only the traveller shall cover this. In national road ferries, the state covers about half of the costs. In addition, through Enova, Innovation Norway and the Norwegian Research Council, the State has spent more than 1.6 billion in recent years. kr to low and zero emission cycles. For example, Hordaland has received about 275 million. kr from Enova in the last years of such solutions. The county authorities cover substantially more than half of the costs of the state-owned ferries. This has given a strong growth in the budget for ferry operations, both in the state and in the county. But the travelers also pay more than before. This is particularly true of some county councils, which have raised rates more than the general price increase in society, and this has naturally caused a disturbance. From 2018, the government has compensated the county councils for 100 million. SEK for increased costs of ferry services. We will now look again at the calculations that were made. At the top comes the introduction of AutoPASS for ferries. The aim of the AutoPASS chip payment is simplification and efficiency, both for the ferry crew and for the travellers. There are no major changes in the transition to the AutoPASS chip payment except that staff ticketing falls away at the transition to the chip payment. The conversion is based on provenance neutrality. As a result, the cost level would be collected for road users only after the conversion. Some road users are better off than before, while others get worse out of the AutoPASS conversion. So I find reason to remind you that the discount schemes for those who travel by ferry are good. About two thirds of the travelers resolve discounted tickets. I'm happy to accept input. I am, like the representative Myrvold, concerned about the price developments we see, and I also want a dialogue with the county about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1984	There is no doubt that the signs and the councils speak much the same language in this matter, and the reports that the councils give us about the situation in the coastal districts are very serious. In a family that lives on the island of Varald Island in Kvinnherad, for example, the carers who are going to work have to spend about NOK 100,000 a year on holiday trips only to get to and from work. The holiday riot that is spreading across the country will not dampen until responsible politicians find solutions. Although the Minister for Transport sees a good understanding and is clear in response, I strongly doubt whether the Head of Government and the recently appointed Minister of State share this view. In several media lookups they both express that this is the state and indirectly the ferry traveller's responsibility one and one alone. Can the Council of State assure us that it follows adequately with funds and finances into the alert dialogue with the county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e1991	Yesterday I was with the state councillor Hofstad Helleland visiting the ferry state of More and Romesdal. There we got a lot of good reports, and we said that there were none of the solutions we wanted to say yes or no to. But we want to go into a dialogue with the state to see this. This is a composite image. There is no doubt that short-term climate solutions help to increase costs. But in the longer term, just elves will reduce operating costs. If one goes to the Anda-Lote connection, the operating cost from one ferry to the other is now less than the one paid for a coffee cup and a swallow on the ferry in operation, once the investment costs have been incurred. I am concerned that the county should have this responsibility, which I believe was a correct solution. But I want to go into dialogue, and then there are no solutions I want to reject so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2000	There's no doubt that the swallows are good on ferries, and I'm glad that one is invited to make recordings. But the Vestland County Municipality has not yet been contacted by the Minister on this dialogue. I just want to clarify when it's going to happen, and in what way it's going to result. After all, the predecessor of the Hareide State Council has also been in dialogue with the county councils without any significant results. How does the State Council dialogue now differ from the dialogue that has been conducted between the Ministry and the county councils in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2005	State Council Hofstad Greece and the signatures will contact the state. It's natural enough the states that are big when it's about ferries, and that have a real challenge. It's a mixed image, because this is related to the bidding rounds and the time they have. It helps to provide some challenges that are now stronger for some ferries than for others. Nor am I sitting with a full picture of the increase in costs. I met a family myself yesterday, and it's clear that there's huge sums of money this is about. They had a holiday cost of NOK 40000 last year, and they now have to calculate the ferry costs of NOK 60000–65000 this year. It's a big boost. Before tax, it is part of the income up to NOK 110 000 to NOK 120 000, a large part of the family income. So we want that dialogue, and we want to meet with the ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2015	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The West states have a difficult economy after the merger. They have not received a financial transfer from the state, as the government has promised. The most acute is the extra costs of transition to zero emission from ferry and fast boat. 380 million. kr for ferries in Hordaland,» – Sorry, President! I think the right thing is 300 million. kr. There must be a typing error here. – ‘100 million. kr for fast boat between Sogn and Fjordane and Bergen. Soon the ferries in Sogn and Fjordane will be on their way. Does the Council of State want Westland to reverse the transition to zero emissions, or will the government grant the funds needed to obtain zero-emission ferries and quickboats?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2024	The question raised by the representative of Navarsete relates precisely to price and cost developments related to the ferry business. I want to be clear. I think it's very positive what Hordaland has done. They've invested in forward-looking ferries. The representative of Navarsete has a very good ability to understand just this issue as a former municipal minister and Minister of Transport. I believe the reform for which the representative Navarsete was responsible, by giving the ferry business to the county, has been successful. She's been working. The county has been responsible for this, and that is exactly what the county should be responsible for. As I mentioned in reply earlier, Hordaland has received support from Enova to conduct electrification of its ferry fleet. In total, Enova has given 275 million. kr in favour of zero and low-emission ferries in Hordaland. I would like to remind you that the large cost developments in ferries are also compounded. It's climate, it's fleet renewal, and it's a better supply. But as I say, I would like the county to have this responsibility. I want the state to be able to do something about this. We took 100 million. kr in 2018. Let's look at those calculations, and I want a dialogue with the state about how we can go in and look at this problem. So to the AutoPASS introduction, which some places lead to extra costs. There is no doubt that there is an introduction that I believe is very positive to. It is a simplification that allows you to run on board only the holidays. But that makes that, for example. Møre and Romsdal have passenger revenues of 100 million. which they must in effect replace by the AutoPASS regime. One of the suggestions that came from the party colleague of Liv Signe Navarsete yesterday, Kristin Sørheim, was to look at the flexibility associated with the AutoPASS code. This is a complicated wholeness. We're going to go into it, and I hope that the State dialogue can make the reform that we carried out in 2009-2010 stand by and that the state will feel that this is a regulation, a possibility they have, to take care of it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2037	Int. 78 S for 2015–2016 asked the Stortinget government to put in place actions to ensure that all county and municipal ferries and speedboats benefit from low- or zero-emission technology by new supply and routes in their own right. The Christian People's Party voted for this. The centre party was alone in a comment stating that one cannot support this submitted without additional costs being covered and that the requirement for new zero-emission technologies must be followed by a zero-emission scheme covering the additional costs. Actually, it boils all the way down to economics and giving resources in line with the tasks that one gets. Does the Council of State still mean that it was right for the majority to impose such an order without cost coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2046	I'm very happy with the climate solutions that the state has chosen. It would be very strange if we had chosen some solutions for the state road ferries and completely different solutions for the state ferries. The climate challenge is here, and I want to pay tribute to the states that have gone ahead in this area. That's what I'm talking about. Obviously, economics is part of this whole thing, but not everything. And in the dialogue I've had with the counties so far, they point to several tools, including: flexibility in discount schemes. We're going to go inside and actually look at the different tools that the county now wants us to look at. So yes, economics is part of this. As I also said, we're going to go through the 2018 calculations to look at this. I believe we should find solutions together with the states, and I don't want to contribute to a blackmail game on this challenge that we all see.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2055	I hope you find a solution. A journey from Mannheller to Fodnes, as many commuters daily, now costs $16 million one way. In that case, even the tolls around Oslo may be small in value. In 2019, Sogn and Fjordane County had a cut of 279 million. kr following the changes in the income system made by the government in 2015. Hordaland had a cut of 55 million. kr. So it's going to be a total of over 300 million. kr i cut compared to one before the change. Annual extra cost — including investment and operations — is estimated at 468 million in a report ordered by KS. kr, plus insecurity with regard to operations. After feeding the county councils economically, the prime minister was here and owed the red-green counties, as she said, for lack of prioritisation. Does the Council of State think this is about poor ability to prioritise, or is it really about too little money from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2066	There is no doubt that part of this issue is about money. I thought the county councils, which have prioritised climate solutions, have done a good and proper priority, and I want to engage with them in a dialogue on how to solve this challenge. As the representative Navarsete pointed out, I also see some cost increases for a ferry that is too high. I mentioned earlier an example of a family that went from having a cost of less than NOK 40000 last year to now having a cost of NOK 60000–65000. It's a very large increase, and they have no choice. Yes, we have had toll issues that have also created a great commitment, but there has often been a greater flexibility than one has when it relates to ferries. This also applies to many island municipalities. We want settlement across the country, and therefore this is a challenge we are forced to look at solutions for. I am no less optimistic about finding solutions after having been in dialogue with, among other things. Mora and Romsdal County yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2080	First, good luck! ‘High ferry prices have led to coastal uprisings, excessive price increases can lead to deportation. In some areas it is possible to buy ferry tickets which allow one to halve the cost of the ferry trip. These discount schemes are expensive, and since I live on an island, I know that a lot of people think using $3,500 to get a discount is crazy unsocially expensive. Will the Council of State ensure that the price of ferries and fast boats is kept at such a level that people can actually use the offer instead of having to move?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2089	I would like to thank Adelsten Iversen for his excellent congratulations. The representative Adelsten Iversen raises questions about the ferry fare and the price increase for travellers who have been carried out in some counties. I used to be in the Question Time because there's been a huge increase in the cost of the ferry business. The main picture is that we have received a better offer than before, and we have been given a renewal of the ferry in much of the country. That's good. In addition, there are costs of environmental ferries. Expenditure on ferry services is covered by public funds and ticket receipts. As mentioned earlier, state and county cover most of the costs of ferry operations, but ticket prices have also gone up to cover some of the strong spending on ferries in recent years. It is a challenge for travellers, but it is a county responsibility to adapt the investment to the economic framework and acceptable ticket prices. The representative is also subject to conditions to obtain discounts. So you have to make an appointment and pay an advance to get the biggest discounts, but the discount is clear: a total of 50 pst. for household customers and 40 pst. for business customers. Privates may attach two vehicles to one appointment. In my view, it's not unnatural to have an advance payment scheme to obtain favourable discounts. Just as Adelsten Iversen's representative pointed out, there was also something that Mr. More and Mr. Romsdal brought up yesterday. There is today a limit of NOK 3 500. They have addressed that question in a letter to the Ministry, and I have forwarded the challenge to the State Road Administration for an assessment, just linked to that part. But I think it should be advance payment. If there is a late payment, I am concerned that we want to spend a lot of resources on getting money, which in turn will make the ferry ticket and the speedboat ticket more expensive, and I do not want to contribute to that. But we're looking at solutions here to give greater flexibility. I also want to say that my predecessor has made changes to the AutoPASS system. State Council Dale made changes so that sports teams got more flexibility. There's a change I totally agree that Dale did.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2104	Had even the ferry offered got better, but in my case it just gets worse. And we're very confident that it's good weather; then the ferry goes. Increased shipping costs also mean that the price that businesses have to pay to get their products out of the island will be high. Does the Council of State see that high ferry prices immediately lead to lower competition conditions for business in ferry-dependent societies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2109	There is no doubt that the representative Adelsten Iversen here says is right. Some island municipalities have a continental connection. Often they are paid down, they are today free. It's my own municipality of residence, Bømlo. There is no doubt that the island municipalities that do not have it today, but have a ferry, actually have a greater competitive disadvantage, for example. within fish. Many of these island communities contribute with a fantastic productivity and jobs that whole of Norway enjoys. Understanding how important the ferry is, that there is a ferry that brings you into the mainland, I think one must have offered on an island to understand. Therefore, I also understand that many people react to the increase that is now coming – even from an enterprise perspective. I even met a company yesterday that said this meant $2 million. kr on the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2118	What will the Council of State do to make it easier, and that it will be better for us who live in the district, on an island, to be able to carry this? Something has to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2123	I've said that I want a dialogue with the state. I don't want a blackmail game about who's responsible for this, but I want the county to have the ability to control the ferry, as they do today. The fact that this is at regional level, I think is a good one. So let's look at different solutions. I have named the AutoPASS regime. There are also recordings related to the fare. So it's clear that this is an economic question. I have said here several times that we should look at the calculations from 2018. Finally, this is a budgetary question, if any. But I'm going to go straight with the state councillor Hofstad Helleland in dialogue with the state to look at solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2133	‘A digital class distinction is often mentioned. Now there is becoming a larger transport class distinction between people who are dependent on ferries and those who are not. Worst for those who depend on county road ferries. The state does not compensate the county for the real costs they have for ferry operations and for environmental travel. Prices are growing, and supply is getting worse in some places. Will the Council of State take responsibility for finding arrangements to ensure that counties are able to provide a good ferry service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2140	The representative of the blade is like the three previous questioners concerned with the costs of the ferry and environmental ferries. As before, it is important to point out that there are several factors that explain the increase in costs in the ferry business. Environmental expenditure forms only one part of this. There is particular reason to recall improvements in the supply in recent years. We have got several departures, longer opening hours and larger and more modern ferries on many of the connections around the country. I'm glad. The representative calls for schemes to ensure that county municipalities are able to provide a good ferry service. There is another reason to recall that the county councils are mainly financed by free income, so that the county councils themselves can give priority to different areas. However, I am open to see if there are any aspects of financing and tariff systems that turn out unlucky in the county road ferries. However, I have as my starting point that any adjustments must be made within the current framework funding of the county councils. Local priorities usually ensure effective use of resources in line with local needs. As I have said before, I want a dialogue with the state. I was at home with the representative Klinge yesterday. I thought it was a good meeting – an understanding of this. So it's so that the increase we're also seeing on the county holidays, I'm not with a complete overview of. The regions are doing this, so we are not aware of these changes. Among other things, Nordland County made adjustments and changes, changes I was very happy with. They put down the price after a real political treatment, and I want to pay tribute to that. I'm now in dialogue, but then I want to look at the whole thing. The climate challenge is one part of this, but a good ferry offer has also contributed to an increase in prices. I still thought that was good. We get a better ferry offer. I also thought that the renewal of the ferry was very important. So many states are also talking about the "puckle effect," that is, it's increasing costs in the short term, but when the environmentally friendly ferries first arrive, they're going to be cheaper to operate. It requires an investment in new ferries and in some land installations linked to the river ferries to get it to. So I want to look at solutions and I am therefore pleased with the question asked by the representative of Klinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2153	I thank you for your answer. In this holiday case, the point is that the whole government really has to come on the path. There are several who are responsible, it is the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Municipal Affairs and the Minister of Transport, and we have chosen to ask the Minister of Transport more questions today because he is responsible for transport in the country. The fact that the state council traveled with the district minister to More and Romesdal, my county, yesterday, is absolutely positive, and I see it as a clear sign that one knows co-responsibility for the problem. The Minister of District Affairs is a member of the Ministry of Local Affairs, and this joint tour suggests that the two departments should continue to cooperate with each other. Although these ferries are county road ferries and fall under the budget of the municipal minister, they are highly concerned with transport and transport. Does the Council of State see that he can contribute to a solution that actually provides fair funding for ferries, so that the increase in ticket prices can be reversed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2160	I have said that we should look at the calculations from 2018. I do not want to conclude until we have gone in and looked at them. So there's no doubt about what the state has contributed to, not least on the highway link, where we've had quite a lot of extra promises. Only from 2013 until today have the permits increased from about 650 million. NOK 1488 million. kr for 2020. This shows that there has been an increase in the cost of national roads too. We see the same challenge within the county holidays, and we'll look at solutions to it. But it's not just heads and ears this problem is about, it's also about greater flexibility. I think that the states with which I have discussed this, see the health in a good way, and then I hope that we can find good solutions together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2167	We in the Center Party believe that it is an open-ended state responsibility to fully finance the operation of the county road ferries and the investments in environmental ferries, and we hope that this ferry uprising can help to push forward the necessary changes. The counties and not least the ferry passengers enjoy long-term good financing of the ferry operations to ensure reasonable ticket prices and a good ferry service. This is a matter that we in the Center Party have been committed to for too long. We have added extra means of ferries to our alternative budget and we also have a proposal for consideration in the Stortinget now. If it is multiplied, it can ensure that the counties are compensated for real costs and, in turn, it can ensure lower prices for the ferry tickets. Now I hear that Hareide doesn't want to be very concrete, but I still allow myself to ask whether the Council of State will be in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party, or whether he himself will come up with a solution proposal that is at least as good as what we in the Centre Party have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2172	I'm not going to start the discussion of the Central Party's proposal here in Stortinget, but there will probably also be suggestions that I take with me when I have a dialogue with the ferry companies. However, among other things: what goes on at the maximum price, I know that some of the states have been skeptical about, and I'm engaged in a real local free trade in these kinds of cases, because we can't just make this an economic issue. These are also regional and regional priorities. Naturally, the economy also varies from state to state, but what we see in general is that the county holidays have been greatly increased. Now we're going to see how big they are, and we're going to get facts and information about what the real numbers are. There will be a good basis in itself to say what the right decisions are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2177	Then we've come to today's last question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2185	Last, but not least, formally also: Congratulations to Asheim as new Minister of Research and Higher Education. My question is: ‘In 2018, the Board of Directors of OsloMet concluded that the place of study at Kjeller would be maintained. Now the principal launches a proposal to centralize the business of Oslo. Does the Council of State consider an urgent decision already in March to comply with the requirements of sound investigation and participation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2194	Let me start by thanking the representative for his warm congratulations before I answer the question. Following the merger of the Oslo and Akershu High School in 2011, the new OsloMet institution has carried out several investigations and screening work on the future development of campus in the region of Rome, for both Kjeller and Lillestrøm. Now I do not agree with the representative Knutsdatter Strand that the board of directors in 2018 concluded that Kjeller should be maintained. The Management Board adopted the following on 25 October 2018: ‘On the basis of dialogue with the owners of the 55 Kjeller Knowledge Road, Hemposa Somfunnsbyggåg AS, the University Board of Directors decides that OsloMet is negotiating with Hemposa with a view to continuing the lease agreement on Kjeller.’ In the management board on the location in Rome, two alternatives were promoted: competitively launching new campus on Rome enter into negotiations with Hemposa Somfunnsbyg AS with a view to reducing the rental costs of existing campus on Kjeller The intention of saving rental costs was considered to be the most burdensome, and the board of directors of OsloMet adopted alternative two. OsloMet has negotiated a new lease with Hemposa Somfännsbygg AS with a maturity of 2043. The agreement will save 20 million. NOK in rent, each year, which is also valid for the rest of the current period, until the summer of 2023. That'll add up to $90 million. NOK in lower rent. The total cost of OsloMet with the new lease is about 1.15 billion. kr. On 16 December 2019, the Ministry of Knowledge authorised the OsloMet Ministry to enter into a lease with Hemposa Somfunnsbyg AS for the rental of premises at Kjeller. As the representative refers to, the principal at OsloMet, Curt Rice, sent a letter to the faculty boards on 15 January this year to initiate a new process at the university. He has asked them to consider two alternatives: bringing together the entire business of Oslo; sign the new lease on Kjeller On the basis of an overall assessment of the economy, sustainability and input from the units, the Vice-Chancellor will promote a case for the Board of Directors in March. The Examining Instructions and Instructions on the Handling of Construction and Lease Matters in the State Civil Sector provide requirements and provisions to ensure a sound decision-making basis for the management of Construction and Lease Matters in the State Civil Sector. It also applies to the higher education sector. The construction and leasing instructions show that the departments are responsible for addressing local needs in their areas of responsibility, when there is a need to change or to have new premises. The investigation shall take into account the efficient use of land and resources and shall include analysis of land needs, overall assessment of location, cost and uncertainty analysis and assessment of market rentals or state premises. OsloMet, as a government administrative body, is responsible for the investigation. I register, as mentioned, that the principal will promote a case for the Board of Directors in March on the future location of OsloMet, and I expect OsloMet to submit to a good process and carry out the necessary investigations before the board takes a final decision on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2237	Thanks for the answer. After all, the government has set a target of reducing the cost of renting office premises by 15 pst. by 2029. A new lease on Kjeller sounds like it could be in line. Universities and higher education institutions mainly have special rooms and office facilities. The consequences of closure on Kjeller or lack of space in Pilestredet have not yet been publicly assessed. Two faculty boards at Kjeller, for the Faculty of Health, for teacher training and international studies, voted in favour of a better investigation of the consequences, as reported by the Journal of Rome yesterday. The question then is: what is the lower limit to the assessment of consequences that the Council of State should have before deciding to complete an entire study site, and whether following the instructions for construction and rental matters is well enough after the state's investigation instructions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2246	It is quite right that the representative points out that there is now a process in OsloMet as an institution. In fact, the majority has instructed the government and me as the responsible state council to respect those processes in the institutions right now. That means I can't go into the discussions that they have. And that's quite true: the different faculty boards are discussing, and are also landing at slightly different conclusions. What I tried to point out in my first answer is that there is a very clear investigation instruction on these questions. This is not the case, as the representative really asks, whether it keeps adopting it just on a case-by-case basis. No, the investigation instructions are perfectly clear, and all the considerations that I referred to in my first answer are to be properly investigated before making a decision. I'm going to follow that closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2253	I think the Council of State is providing reassuring answers for investigation, and here we look forward to getting more facts on the table simply. There is no doubt that the organisation of places of study, education, research and day-to-day management is part of the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the institution. At the same time, the government has carried out a structural reform which has led a great deal. The merger agreement between Akershus High School and Oslo High School provides for a strong link with, among other things. the institution sector in Kjeller and the assumption that the activities of merged study sites should be continued. The NHO, Norway's Varemesse and the Institute of Energy Engineering support this in yesterday's magazine of Rome. Rector Curt Rice said to the NRK yesterday that the problems at Kjeller as a place of study have been known for 20 years. Does the Council of State consider the redistribution of activities between study places to be in line with the merger agreement if Kjeller is closed? And shouldn't a 20-year-old problem be given time to be properly investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2258	When it comes to giving time for proper investigation, that's exactly what I'm responding to, because the investigation manual is quite clear on this. But it is also quite right that there is just a 20-year-old issue, the time when the University of Oslo and the University of Akershus were to merge, which is now changed in the sense that we say clearly from and have clear expectations for our institutions of both quality and follow-up of students, etc. But Stortinget has also said quite clearly that, for example. campus and construction is something that the boards themselves should, as the representative points out, have decisions on. This means that being responsible for a government council in a field like this is a fairly active social debate going on out there. And I fully agree – I follow it carefully, and I hear both in favour and against. But it is my responsibility now not to go too far into giving signals or something like that. The government councils before me who have tried it have also been packaged by Stortingen for it. But at the same time, the investigation manual makes me think you'll also get a better basis for discussing this and seeing the whole thing, instead of now flying claims back and forth in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2265	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-05.ana.ud231e2279	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
