ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e28	The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e33	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal that State Building should not sell the buildings at the place of study Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e54	On Monday, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Nikolai Astrup, Iselin Nybø and Henrik Asheim will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e63	My question goes to Astrup. As former rapporteur, my heart beats for the municipality. I don't think that's so nice. For what is the municipality? It's kindergartens and schools, health and home care, brooding and child protection. The municipality, the employees, takes care of our kids while we're at work. It's in the municipality they do the job of building people of benefit. Our kids play and learn with employees as comforters and organizers. It is primarily the people who are the municipality – people who go to work every day to provide good services to the inhabitants, employees who have a wage to live off, employees who cost money. This house places great demands on the services provided by the municipality. Manning standards and pedagogical standards have been introduced in kindergartens and schools, without enough money. What follows, however, is the keynote finger and the admonition that it is only a priority – it is only a priority within a municipal scheme that is the most stringent in 15 years. When large parts of the municipal budget are tied up by unfunded staffing standards, the country’s older people have to pick up the bill. The rapporteur, Mr Groette, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, said the following in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: ‘It puts the municipalities in a checkmate. In the sense of all municipalities, significant savings in health care are now being made, despite the fact that the challenges in this sector will only increase.’ [[...]] I wonder what the new municipal minister will contribute to Kommune-Norway and the country's elderly – money or still indexing fingers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e79	The government has already contributed significant income growth for the municipalities in the years we have been sitting. Since 2013, the revenues of municipalities have increased by 30 billion. kr. The free income of the municipalities has increased more each year on average over the period of that government, compared to the previous government. We want to give the municipalities space for action to deliver good services to their inhabitants and equivalent services regardless of where they live. So I think it's important that both the state and the municipality in the future think anew about how we're doing the problems, because we're going to go into a period when the economy is going to be tighter for the country as a whole. This means that we need to focus on innovation and digitisation and new ways to solve these problems, to ensure that citizens get the services they expect, deserve and have demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e86	Now it's not digital teachers the crew norm has pointed out. It's people, it's employees. KS and the municipalities have been aware that the standard of staffing in kindergarten and school is underfunded by 1 billion. kr. This is money that must be taken from other areas of the municipal budget. Everyone who has been a municipal politician knows that health and care are the second big budget line. If this is not to affect the elderly in the country, in which areas does the Minister of State think it is 1 billion? kr to collect from the budgets of Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e91	The economy of municipalities and the starting point for 2020 is good. This is because we have had good municipal arrangements for several years, and that there have been VAT receipts to the municipalities, which means that we have a record number of municipalities on the ROBEK list. Now we are down in eight municipalities, which is a significant decrease from when we took over the government power in 2013. The municipalities, I think, have a good economic base for solving the problems they're going to solve. It is not possible to get under the chair that municipalities also need priority in order to raise the economy, but the starting point is, as I said, good in 2020 – as it has been in the previous years. We are engaged in good services for the inhabitants and equivalent services throughout the country. You should be able to live across the country and get good services – no matter what kind of services it is – and you should get the services you require.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e98	There will be follow-up questions – first Tuva Moflag.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e103	Then we got the index finger here, too, in other words. Let's go directly to the care of the elderly. There'll be twice as many older people in the next 20 years. At the same time, it means doubling the number of people with dementia – a diagnosis that represents a heavy burden both for those affected and for their relatives. Daily activities places for people with dementia have been an important common promise for the country and the municipality. On 1 January 2020, the Government suspended the grant scheme in which the State contributed 50 pst. the costs of such a space. The money was included in the municipal framework, but there is not enough money here either. The government has only compensated the municipalities for half of the places they expect the municipalities to establish. This problem doesn't go up either. Why does the government cut in the offer of vulnerable demen's spacers and their families?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e112	I think it's a little special to be accused of just giving the index when the example used is that we have moved money from a grant scheme into the framework, which, of course, just means that the municipalities themselves, who have the shoe on and know where it prints, can do their priorities. I think the sense is evenly distributed in this country, and that municipal politicians around the country are good at making priorities locally. Therefore, as far as possible, we should give the money to the municipalities as free revenues and not as earmarked grants, so that the municipalities themselves can make their priorities. Everyone is concerned that the elderly will receive a good and worthwhile offer whether they are demented or not, and that the municipalities will be able to give them the offer they both deserve and are entitled to. Expenditure increases are recorded over time in the municipal income system and will also be reflected for the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e119	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e124	Governments insist that the free revenues are important for the ability of municipalities to prioritise. But the local economy is under strong pressure, and the government's own figures show that since 2017, there has been zero growth in the free income of the local government sector. So the municipalities haven't really got a single extra dollar to go through the last few years. In the context of the KS’s budgetary inquiry: ‘It has become clear that the budgets have become more demanding to go up.’ The justification is a heavy pressure on health and care expenditure, which we also heard here instead. If the current government had continued the growth of the Stoltenberg government in the free income of the municipalities, the sector would have had significantly more money to go with in terms of free income, about 15 billion. kr in the period during which the government has ruled. The right-wing government now gives municipalities a triple click: low income growth, underfunded tasks and restrictions for municipalities to raise their own income. Can the State Council confirm, as has been stated to the Stortinget, that since 2017 there has been zero growth in the free revenues of the municipal sector? And will the Council of State continue this impoverishment of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e139	I totally disagree with the reality description of the municipality's economy. The average growth in free income per capita has been higher during this government, up to 2018, than it was under the Stoltenberg government, and as I said, we have added 30 billion to the municipalities. kr under this government, which enables municipalities to invest in kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. In addition, the municipalities enter 2020 with a VAT growth after the revised budget of 6,6 billion in 2019. kr. This is a good starting point for 2020. So I want to say that we have to prepare for a time when the nation collectively is going to have less money available. This means that politicians like the representative Sivertsen face tough times, for his answers to all challenges are more money. We have to think again about how we solve the problems, we have to focus more on innovation. This must apply to the country, but it must also apply to the local government sector. That's why I'm also going to present a big message about innovation in the public sector, because this is going to be important in the years to come. Everything can't be solved with more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e146	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e151	There is no contradiction between investing in the community – providing good childcare services, better schools, health care and good health for the population – and driving innovation. On the other hand, if you want to do so, you have to give good enough framework conditions. Governments do not deny what has previously been stated to the Stortinget that there has been a zero growth in the free income of the municipal sector since 2017. He may again have the opportunity to correct it if he believes it has given incorrect information before. The thing about the municipal economy is that yes, there are a few municipalities on the ROBEK list. I'm happy about that. There are many municipalities that have profits. That's very good. What you don't have to be clear about is why you go with profit. It's because you have extraordinary tax revenues despite the government's policy – there's not been anything that the government has foreseen, because then you would have put it in. There have been lower pension costs — even despite government policy, there was nothing caught up in the assumptions of the municipal bill — and correspondingly lower demographic costs. The point is that a policy is being pursued that is impoverishing the municipalities. So the question is, will you continue this policy, or will you increase the economic space of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e160	If this government conducts a policy that defuses the municipalities, you can ask what the previous government did. When the growth of the free revenues is higher under this government than under the previous government, it seems that the representative Sivertsen's criticism falls on his own unfairness. So I'm glad the representative is interested in innovation, but I can tell you that when I was Minister for Digitalisation, there was little interest from the opposition in how to use digitisation to drive innovation in municipalities. It's fine if the opposition is now going to change it in the future, because it's going to be necessary. We've given the municipalities a solid financial framework over the last few years, but that doesn't mean there's a redundancy horn for the municipalities out there. It's never going to be. The important thing is to have a good framework to provide citizens with the services they expect, deserve and have requirements for, within kindergarten, school and care for the elderly, and that we are well equipped for the years to come. The economic starting point in 2020 is good, and it is partly the government's profit that tax revenue rises, because more people come to work thanks to a successful industrial policy. But I'm sure the Minister of Industry could say more about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e169	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e174	Still narrower municipalities, especially for small and medium-sized municipalities, make almost all of them report having to make significant cuts. In most municipalities, this affects the elderly. In addition to tight frameworks, new expenditure has been incurred by municipalities. Local government expenditure on early care has increased sharply in recent years because the number of younger people in need of care has increased, but in particular because the state is taking an increasingly smaller share of these costs. Increased participation in the care of young people in the health and care budget necessarily means less to care for the elderly, and we clearly see the consequences of this around the municipality of Norway. If the Council of State considers that there are so liberal budgets, can he give some examples of the alternatives the municipalities have to cut down the necessary, without affecting the care of the elderly, when they have a nursery standard that binds up and limits the space for action, and a school standard that limits the space for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e181	It is absolutely necessary for municipalities to prioritize within their framework, but my point is that the economic base of municipalities is good when we go into 2020. It's both because we've had a growth in free income, and because it's a VAT increase that benefits municipalities. Then it is a concern that the efficiency of the municipal sector has fallen in recent years. We need to implement both digital and innovative solutions that allow municipalities to improve the efficiency of their operation and thus release resources that can be used to make the service provision even better. There is therefore a need for further innovation in the municipal sector. I am very pleased that the KS has launched a partnership for radical innovation, which hopefully can help us to just release resources to provide even better services to the population in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e188	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e193	If we choose to use the values we have to secure the community and, for example, the community. that older and sick people can feel safe in the future – the value we make in this regard – becomes very important because if we can afford what we see in front of us now, and as we all know, there will be many more older people. I don't feel sure that the Council of State and the government are on the right side on that issue, because it seems as if they prioritise tax relief for the richest in front of the security of the sickest and the elderly. I don't think sick and elderly people feel much safer of all this talking about technological innovation either. They know that more employees are needed to do the job around the municipalities. Then you have to have money to hire people. Does the Council of State see the need for a large increase in the number of future employees in these sectors in order to meet the growing task?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e200	Yes, in some areas there will certainly be a need for more employees to do the problems in a good way. At the same time, we have to see if we can solve these problems in new and better ways to get the resources to go further. These include: making use of welfare technologies, which can provide greater security for people in their homes, and which can therefore extend the resources of home services. We're going to make sure that people do the things that people are best at, and that you meet with just warm hands rather than a cold shoulder. But the added security that technology provides can make resources better used than we might get today. Here's a lot to go on in the years to come. We have to take a power cap to get to this. It is important that values are created before they are shared, and once the municipalities have had a VAT increase in recent years, it is precisely because more people have come into work. It is important to be able to finance welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e209	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e215	I'm beginning to approach this age and really hope that society has something else to do with if I sit alone in an apartment and don't get food, than a refrigerator that tells me that 'Now, Karin, it's four hours since you last ate, so now you have to look and open the locker door.' I have a report from the Hospital Inland – and I know that this is similar in all hospitals – where it says that the division of tasks between primary and specialist health services in the future will reduce the number of days spent by 20 p.m. So here we're going to plan for a health care service that has 20 pst. the treatments currently carried out in hospitals are to be carried out in the municipalities. It is also in the light of this that the new municipal minister has to take a walk around the municipalities and talk to those who do the job, because what we do today is not going to last. Well-being technology can help a little bit in some areas, but we have to train and hire enough people to do this job if we're going to be safe. Then we must give priority to money for this rather than putting money in our pockets for those who are already the richest in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e222	I fully agree that welfare technology alone will never solve this challenge, but it was one example of something that we have to apply much more systematically in the years to come in order to give older people a safer and more dignified old age. It is important to stress that the vast majority of older people are a resource, and we need to ensure that it is attractive for older people to stay longer in work and contribute to the community, so that we can finance welfare services in the years to come. Many older people want to work longer, and we have to give them that opportunity and facilitate it. I am absolutely sure that the representative Karin Andersen has many good years ahead of her in the workplace where she can contribute to the community – and that is good. I am still concerned that we need to facilitate the creation of values that can finance all those who will work in the healthcare system, whether it is in the specialist health service or in the municipalities, in the years to come. It is therefore important that we have an industrial policy that makes it possible. It is important for the ability of municipalities to provide good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e231	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e236	My question is also addressed to the Minister of State. There are many who become politicians after meeting the bureaucracy in planning and construction. Building a house, disfellowshipping an area or building a garage or a nudity is often a matter that people think should go well, but it's before they meet the bureaucracy and difficulties with the Environmental Protection Department of the County or County – in the first row. Therefore, many of them turn to us in the Progress Party, which is a bypass party for most people, and who want us to have yes-communities looking for a reason to say yes over a reason to say no. For us, it is an important principle that one places great emphasis on local democracy in planning and construction matters. Property law is another important principle. We want to simplify planning, reduce planning time and ensure that plans are not worthless to developers. At the time when the Progress Party was in government, we got a good deal done, but we're far from in goal. The Ministry of Local Affairs has decided more than 150 cases since the government change in 2013, and the municipalities have been given a little more than 80 pst. of them. In comparison, it was a little under 40 pst. under the red-green government. But after the Progress Party went out of government and Astrup was the municipal minister, the ministry has decided three things, and now the statistics are worse than he was under the red-green, because now the statesmen have got a say in all the cases and local democracy in none. The Ministry of Local Affairs has not approved a plan in the Municipality of Oslo at Huseby, the Ministry of Local Government has not approved a plan in the municipality of Vestby, nor has the Ministry of Local Government approved a plan in the municipality of Ulstein. So my question is, is there a change of course with the Progress Party out of government, where the state now gets to decide more and local democracy less?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e249	Thank you for the question. The government wants to increase the local space for action in planning and construction matters. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by: by the government’s political platform, the Granavolden platform, which is well known to the representative, which states that the government will strengthen municipal autonomy and reduce state and regional detail management, and that ownership should be a guiding principle in laws and regulations. It also states that we should provide local action by extending the dispensation of municipalities from existing locally adopted plans within the framework of national legislation. The Ministry will shortly submit proposals for amendments to the provisions of the Planning and Building Act on exemptions to be consulted. Today's exemption provision has strict conditions for exemption, and Fylkesen, as the Board of Appeal, may review the judgements of municipalities in all forms of exemption cases. We want a clearer distinction between issues where national and regional interests are involved and issues where the municipality must have greater freedom than today to find the best solution. We therefore believe that national and regional interest considerations should be clearly identified in the exemption provision. At the same time, the assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of an exemption shall be subject to the discretion of the municipality, so-called free discretion. This means that we want to lower the threshold for when a derogation can be granted, by removing today's requirement that the benefits of granting a derogation must be clearly greater than the disadvantages. Today, there is limited scope for emphasising the interests as an advantage in the dispensation assessment. We therefore want greater access to focus on the respondent’s own assessments of what is the best solution based on their own needs. So this government has not only legislated municipal autonomy, we also want municipalities to have greater authority in planning and construction matters, and I therefore agree with the representative in his approach to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e262	Thanks for the answer from the Council of State, which is a good word – we have heard a lot of this in letters that go to the statesmen as well. Unfortunately, we do not always see that the words and expectations that have been created are involved in concrete action. Among other things, when a letter is received, the number of countersigns from the statesmen should have fallen. However, in 2018, the statesmen have raised more contradictions than in 2017 despite the fact that they have received letters. I'm glad that the government will do something on the dispensation page; it's a germ for irritation in local politicians that the county officials are always out of control. It is in particular that a sitter should decide complaints, to a great extent irritation, because then it is not the department or the council that is responsible for the decision of the Storting, but a bureaucrat at Fylkesmannen. Is there anything the Council of State would like to see – that one should raise the issues of which, with the new practice, is getting fewer, into the ministry, so that it is not a sit-by that decides individual matters, but the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e269	I think it's important to stress that there's a very small proportion of the objections that end up at the department's table in a year. That threshold has become significantly higher than it was before. This means that in most cases you will probably be reconciled – either in the municipality or between the county and the municipality – before it ends on the government’s table. Then it is important to distinguish what is legitimate local interest, where the State should exercise care to review local discretion and what is significant regional and national interests, which are, of course, a matter for the State to have an opinion on. For example, we don't have that much high-quality food soil in this country. Therefore, in some cases, we will have to review the assessments made by the municipality, in order to preserve the limited food soil we have in this country after all – as was the case in West Town last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e276	It opens for follow-up questions – first Helge André Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e281	It goes without saying that there won't be many things on the table of the department when the department has delegated the authority to the seats. Then things end up on the table with the neighbour, who is largely in agreement with his colleague and disregards local democracy. I hope that my recording will be more carefully looked at, because there's a big germ to put a set of local democracy aside. Another challenge when it comes to plan and construction is that all the regulations that create major problems for those who are going to buy housing, because isolation is as stringent in the South as in Røros and Karasjok. Technical requirements are being imposed that cost the construction process and make it more expensive in a lot of district municipalities to build a house than one can afterwards. Here, the Progress Party wants to simplify – make things easier, so that more people get into the housing market – as well as we want to regulate and build more buildings. What are the plans of the Council of State when it comes to simplifying the planning and building laws in addition to the building regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e288	I am, of course, a follower of simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building. At the same time, it is important that we have a balance. Often it will be so that it makes it cheaper for those who build out, and more expensive for those who live there. We must maintain that balance. We want new dwellings to be built in large monn because it gives not least young people the opportunity to enter the housing market. It must not be too expensive to build dwellings because it must be possible for more people to become self-owners. At the same time, there are some demands we have to and should be silent because the building mass is going to be there for a very long time. This means that it is important how the building is listed. The second is that if we have any requirements at the bottom, the cost of making use of the building for the person who is going to live there will be lower. So here's a balance, but I don't have a problem supporting the representative's overall approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e293	Helge André Njåstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e299	Thank you for your answer. It's nice that a superior agrees with us, but the details of these matters are local, and that's when one experiences the problem that the statesmen produce too many contradictions – they don't take over the signal that now it's going to be easier to build. The fact that one is in agreement with it does not help those who are going to buy the dwelling for the first time, when demands are made that are immaterial and cost-effective. But it's good that the council has an involvement in this field. We've felt that we got started well after 2013, and then the interest and commitment for this field have dropped. I am glad that this Council of State will put forward proposals for the Stortinget. If there are simplifications, the Progress Party will help make it easier for local democracy and cheaper for people to buy housing. I challenge again: What more simplifications can we expect in the future, and is this an area that this Council of States will give more priority to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e304	It is important to stress that there have been significant simplifications in the Planning and Building Act during this government, and that I have an ambition that this work will continue. I'm not in the position to go into detail about it now, I think the representative also understands, but there's no doubt that my goal is to simplify the planning and building law. We have to make sure that we do it in such a way that, at the same time, we take care of some important interests along the way. Then not all demands contribute to making building more expensive, on the contrary, there are some demands that are made because it will be better for those who buy the homes. If you, for example, to build a new apartment complex, you have to add to the building already when you bring it up, so that you can add Wi-Fi to the building. It makes it cheaper for each resident, who then escapes to draw wires afterwards — as an example. We must have two thoughts in our head at once and ensure that we have the interests of those who are going to live there, with us, while at the same time taking care of the builder's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e311	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e316	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. Norwegian ownership is an important goal for the Center Party. We think ownership means something, and how companies act is influenced by who's the owner. Ownership becomes more responsible when not sitting on the other side of the globe. Since the change of government in 2013, the struggle for national ownership of businesses, infrastructure and natural resources has been particularly important for the Centre Party, for we then received a political plurality, with the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, which, in the view of the Centre Party, challenges the Norwegian and national ownership. We've been behind us for a few years when the government of Solberg has sold or proposed selling businesses and weakening laws and conditions that ensure national control of infrastructure and natural resources. There are many examples: For 200 years we have had a Norwegian national exchange in Norway. Now, Oslo Børs has been a branch run from Amsterdam in the Euronext stock exchange group. The government has resigned from many companies, and even more have been proposed under the hammer to be sold out. The Central Party believes that national ownership and state ownership can be an important tool in securing national ownership. In spite of this, the government has submitted an owner's message saying that the goal is to reduce the state's ownership. Norway is a rich country, but when it comes to ownership in Norway, we act like a poor country, selling away to keep shooting floating. So my question to the Minister of Industry is simple: why is it an independent goal for the government to get rid of stately and thus often also with national, Norwegian ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e331	As the representative himself is involved, the government has now submitted a statement of ownership that is being processed in Stortinget, so there is also a chance for Stortinget to express its opinion on what is in the Storing Message. What matters to me is that we have divided our ownership into three categories. The Category 3 companies are companies we have good reasons to own. There are companies that carry out important tasks in our society. The Category 2 companies are companies in which we aim to have the highest possible return over time, but where there are other reasons to own the company than just the highest possible return. Then we have the Category 1 companies, where our goal is to have the highest possible return over time, but where we also at least ask for the opportunity to sell ourselves down or sell us out, precisely because there are no reasons beyond the economics to own them. Then we take an assessment of whether and when it is possible to sell or sell out. What is important for me also to stress to the Stortinget is that Norway, as a nation, owns a large proportion of the values on the Norwegian stock exchange. It's quite unusual if you see it in a world context and with other countries that we can compare with. The reason why we own it can be good, but we have to take an entire assessment of why we own it. If there is no reason to own, we need to assess how we earn the most money on the ownership we have. If selling us down or selling us out, we do. But the Category 2 companies, where we have targets not only of returns over time, but also of other goals, are just about what the representative addresses. It's about that we want to keep, for example. main function in Norway, and that important professional environments we want to maintain in Norway. That's why we're separating the companies that we own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e342	I notice that not only is it pointed out that state ownership can be a means of securing national ownership. And that might not be so strange, because Councillor Nybø has turned out to be a very active auctioneer. Just a few days after she had taken over as Minister of Industry, it was the first time, the second time, the third time – sold! And then, GIEK Credit Insurance had gone from being a wholly owned Norwegian company to becoming a French company, a company that ensures annual credit for 60 billion. kr. Most of it is related to the fishing and seafood industry. Sal happened to marine food protests. On the company's website we can read that they have roots back to the 1920s, they are the only Norwegian-owned credit insurance company and Norway's leasing trade union on the insurance of short-term customer credit. This shows that the government does not understand the value of national ownership – and sell company. The question is why. Did the state have the money, or did one just want to sell it for ideological reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e349	Firstly, the government sees the absolute benefits of national ownership. That's why we've divided the companies into three different categories. For Category 3 and Category 2, we have reasons to own: it may be because we want to have professional environments in Norway, and it may be because we want to have head offices in Norway. It could also be because we see that there are good reasons besides having the highest possible return over time as a reason. But for those companies that are in category 1, the highest rate of return over time is the goal, and there we take a concrete assessment whether it is, and when it is, good to sell out and sell down. It's a purely commercial assessment we take on a case-by-case basis. We did the same when it came to credit insurance. There we had the opportunity to either sell ourselves out, that is, sell the company, or possibly liquidate it. I believe that the solution we have now found for GIEK Credit Insurance is a solution that is good for the nation, good for the employees and good for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e356	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e361	These schemes are not just about those companies, whether they are Norwegian or foreign, they are about the framework conditions for the rest of the Norwegian economy. For we are a country that sells wind turbines and offshore wind turbines to abroad, we sell ships to abroad, we trade sea food, we trade technology related to oil and gas industries – a number of export companies depend on schemes that relieve the risks associated with whether they are paid for the goods they sell, and that they are not fooled by export. There are different schemes. The French company, as it has now been, like credit insurance, is one of these tools. The second is Export Credit and GIEK itself, which is an important tool for Norwegian business. Then my question is: can the Council of State guarantee that the other companies that operate export-related measures will not be sold, or will not be weakened, but that they will remain as Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e368	In the ownership message we presented to the Storting before Christmas, and as the Storting now has to deal with, we present what is our policy of ownership in these companies. There we have put the companies into different categories, and that's also for the Storting to see what is our intention with the companies, and for the Storting to have the opportunity to express its opinion. When it comes to exports, I fully agree with the representative that this is important. It's important for our business, and it's important for our well-being that we get exported goods that we produce, that we can sell them to other countries. It brings me to one of the other very important conditions for us to be able to export our products, namely the EEA Agreement, which the representative is opposed to. Without a market to sell the goods to, we don't have the opportunity to export. There is hardly enough that is as important for exports in this country as the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e375	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e381	Let me begin by congratulating Iselin Nybø on his appointment as Minister of Industry. I look forward to cooperation in the Biggest on important, big tasks, including state ownership. It has been very clearly expressed through the ownership announcement that the state has a goal of reducing government ownership. It is the main points of the notification, and the Council of State said even when she sold what was now referred to as credit insurance, that the State should only own where there are good reasons for it. The idea is that as long as the political ambition is to sell down, there is perhaps a stronger reason to sell the companies than to maintain ownership of the companies. So I could imagine what the Minister of Industry thinks about using state ownership to develop Norwegian business and Norwegian opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e388	First of all, thank you for the congratulations. I hope and look forward to constructive and good cooperation with the Labour Party in the Committee and in the Stortinget. I think the state should own where we have a reason to own, and we have that in a lot of cases. There are good reasons to own companies for, for example: maintaining its head office and its consequences in Norway. There are good reasons to own companies to keep important environments of competence in our country. The fact that we own as much as state – unusually much, I would say – of the values on the stock exchange is due to a historical development. It is a desired policy that we own what we own today, and it is precisely because we want to maintain important environments of competence in Norway. I think it has been important – and it is still important – to develop our business in general. There is a lot to say that we have just as much competence as the companies we own here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e395	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e400	Now maybe I don't think we own an unusual amount of money on the Norwegian stock exchange. I think we own companies that make sense to own with the background of what we have of resources, and what we have of opportunities. I also think it's detoxifying important companies like, for example. Unfortunately, credit insurance is to go in the wrong direction, especially at a time when we need to convert Norwegian business and use new opportunities – or discover new opportunities to use new opportunities. One of the big things we're facing is climate change. How are we going to meet them, how are we going to be able to develop one, we're going to say, green business, and how are we going to be able to use many of the amazing opportunities we have, just to reinforce and make the opportunities realistic? We clearly believe that state ownership in such a perspective should be strengthened and not weakened. We mean, for example: that the role of Equinor in the future towards the global renewable position is also essential for the country to have a ownership. We have been out there and launched the idea that we should perhaps have a state hydrogen company as a significant opportunity in a green shift. Does the Council see any such possibilities, and will she also be able to imagine that strengthening state ownership can be positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e407	I think that's good reason to own a lot of the companies that we own. So I'm concerned that we have to distinguish the roles that we have as a state, and we have to manage our ownership in a commercial way, so that companies can compete in a market that is equal to other companies. We cannot use our ownership in such a way that we do not achieve the goal of getting the highest rate of return over time, because we manage the taxpayers' money, we manage our common assets. Then it is the goal of getting the highest possible return over time that must be crucial for how we manage that ownership. Then the state has other roles – we regulate, we facilitate, we have companies like that. LIKE credit insurance, which contributes to much of our businesses, but we have to distinguish the roles of the state as manager of ownership, and the state that facilitates... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e414	Time's up. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e421	The light was great among the people and workers on Stord, in Gulen and in Windfjord when Kværner won the task of building Equinor's new floating sea wind turbines on the Tampen in the North Sea. This may be the start of a whole new industrial adventure, and it didn't come too soon. The future of the petroleum industry and all the workers in the industries related to it is most uncertain over the next ten years. It is just a project that, among other things, floating sea winds that could be the saving for these strong industrial environments. But we all know that this is just a pilot project. The government has been silent as a mouse in the question of whether there will be targets for floating sea winds in Norway, with conditions that allow us to take an international leadership role and build the Norwegian supplier industry. When Erna Solberg visited the Norwegian supplier industry in the fall, she received an unsolicited and unisonous demand to put ambitions and money on the table, so that we could build new floating sea wind farms on the Norwegian seas. But nothing happens. Following a new SINTEF report, we can develop more than 50,000 new jobs if we quickly impose the conditions for floating sea winds. Had we had the conditions in place to build carbon capture and storage facilities, it could provide between 30,000 and 40,000 new jobs. For battery production, the same report estimates that 15 000 new jobs could be created. But all this has led to conditions being right for it, and that it is political will. It hasn't been. The government has already set its mouse still, but it is betting instead of opening up new fields and facilitating more investment and production in petroleum. So my question to the Minister of Industry is, can the Council of State explain this business strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e432	I cannot go into what is the oil and energy minister's portfolio here from Stortinget's pulpit. Questions relating to her portfolio must be addressed to her. But on a general basis, I experience that we have a supplier industry and an industry in general that is engaged in being part of the green shift, which is occupied by lying in front of the green shift. It's also about their market share, and it's about their competitive situation in an international context, because they see the world as such going through the green shift, and being in front also gives them market shares internationally. I feel that we have an industry that is offensive, not least the industry that I am responsible for, the maritime, and that it is an impatience. But it's not just about what the state is going to do; it's also about what they're going to do. Then there's the connection between the state's instruments and what we're going into both on the research side and on the development side, and what they're going to contribute from the industry. That's the combination that makes us succeed and actually strengthen ourselves into the green shift, which happens not only in Norway, but throughout the world. But to go into what's in the Oil and Energy Ministry's portfolio, I can't do it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e439	We have never had trouble in Stortinget getting proper answers from the Minister of Economic Affairs on projects that are totally open to commercial implications, will have major consequences for Norwegian industry, which floating sea winds will open up, and which carbon capture and storage will open up. And not least: I asked questions about battery production, where the government has done worse by cutting e.g. in depreciation schemes for the purchase of new machinery for the Norwegian industry, which has made investments impossible. The situation we're facing is that the government only sees industrial trains go by, does nothing to facilitate the location of the investments, and we can be in danger of losing these opportunities because it's being developed elsewhere. If you look at the last numbers from the SSB, you can see that either the Norwegian land industry is in a state of crisis, or there is a decline in production, a decline in investment. The only thing that keeps this up is investment in petroleum. So I ask the question once again, because this is what the Minister of Industry is going to be able to answer: what is the business strategy behind this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e448	The questions and the specific issues raised by the representative Knag Fylkesnes are those that are under the portfolio of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and that I cannot answer. I can answer as Minister of Industry and answer in general, and I think that the picture the representative is drawing is a more gloomy picture than that for which it is based. It's going well in this country. During the last year, according to the SSB, almost 40,000 more persons employed, more than 30000 of whom are employed in the private sector. So there's no reason to paint a black picture here. That doesn't mean that we don't have to be offensive, that doesn't mean that we don't have to be in dialogue with business all the way to hear what they need, what we can help us to do. This applies to industries of all types. But what the representative mentions that goes on the sea wind, which goes on the CCS, must be addressed to the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e453	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e459	I'm asking a question about industry, and it's the responsibility of this Council of States. I note that the Council of State does not want to answer basic questions facing the Norwegian industry. It is fascinating and something completely new for Stortinget to experience a Minister of Economic Affairs who answers that. The fact is – this is from the SSB – that industrial production is falling. There is only one increase in the amount of petroleum that makes the decline not dramatic. Investment in industry is increasing, but it is only due to the launch of new fields on a Norwegian base. If we keep petroleum outside, it's a fall. So we're in the situation that, at a time when we were to become more oil independent, we've become more oil dependent. That shows the big numbers. If we look at the important PMI index, which is an important yardstick for countries and stock exchanges when it comes to how it actually stands in Norwegian industry, he is now at his lowest in three years. The employment index of Norwegian industry in particular is the case. Does the Minister of Industry take this as just a bluff, or does he seriously look at the developments we're in?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e468	After the oil dip that was, there has been a rise again. There are also more people working in and around our oil and gas industries. This is an important industry; it is an important industry for the country. Although it attracts a lot of people and a lot of expertise, it still focuses both government and industry even on the green shift. As I said in my previous post, I feel that the maritime industry is very offensive when it comes to the green shift, precisely because they see that there are some business opportunities there. So it's about how we get there, and we're doing that with a combination of what the state contributes to, for example. through research and development, and the industry itself. So even if there's a rise in the oil and gas industry, it's not like you're not focusing on the green shift, because it's here now. We're going to go through that, and here it's business opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e475	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e480	That one focuses on the green shift, one has said for six years now, when the Left either has been in government or has supported the sitting government. They have not been able to maintain their own climate goals. They have ensured that the only industry that continues to grow is the petroleum industry. The others are standing in the village or going down. That is the reality. With the Left in government, Norway has actually become more oil dependent, and we are now more on the verge of getting to Paris, i.e. the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Governments promote the maritime industries and that they are offensive. Yes, they are offensive, and that's why they have given clear notice to the government that the government must now put in place the framework conditions for maritime nutrition, so that one can get started with the green shift. They can't do this alone. As long as the strong and good conditions are in the petroleum industry, they are locked in this situation. The government has to come up with plans. Among other things, they demanded, together with Norwegian Industry, that one have to come back by the summer of 2020 with a plan for floating sea winds. Will the Minister of Industry still not comment on all of this which will have a significant impact on the maritime industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e489	I do not recognize myself in the description that Knag Fylkesnes comes with. There's an incredible amount going on out there. There's an incredible amount of exciting happening along our coast, not least in the maritime industry. It's electrified over a low shoe. Just after Christmas, there was a large EU project – 200 million. kr I think it was on – for the automation of ships. There's a lot of crazy happening out there. There's an optimism and a drive out there that I think the representative of Knag County is now talking down. I don't recognize myself in the black paint done. The fact that we have challenges is clear, and that we have high targets that are hard to achieve, there is no doubt, but we have to set some goals, because that's where we're going. If we don't have the targets, we won't get yours either. But we have an industry and a business that wants to contribute and that contributes. And they do that with the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e494	I think I realized that the representative Knag Fylkesnes used the expression "on the go". This may be reserved for the presence of the Minister of Agriculture. [[Laughter]] Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e501	Over many years, investment in fossil energy — oil and gas — has been much higher in Norway than in all other industries combined. We talk a lot in Norway about what the oil and gas have given us, but very little about the risk it entails in the future to continue to have so much investment, and what it has cost us. Last year Professor Asbjørn Karlsen at NTNU and senior researcher Markus Steen at SINTEF came out with a new report on how we can get a bet on sea wind in Norway. They conclude that the government’s commitment to oil is in the way of a sea wind bet in Norway. They're so clear that they say, ‘Policy signals from the authorities ensuring continuous expansion and high profitability in the oil and gas sectors, with favourable search drilling reimbursement arrangements, will dampen the attention and investment of operators in sea wind.’ We know that many in other industries also say that we have such good – exceptional – special arrangements and tax advantages for oil and gas, standing in the way of other businesses that respond better to future challenges. Does the Minister of Industry have similar concerns that large investments in oil and gas make other businesses fall into the shadow?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e515	I believe that the representative of Bastholm is quite right that we have talked a lot about what the oil and gas industry has given us, because it has given us some absolutely amazing opportunities. We also have to use these possibilities when we're going to work on the green shift. I see absolutely what the representative is referring to, that the gravitational force works in a way to the benefit of this large and heavy industry. I think that's something we all the way have to be aware of. To compete against the oil and gas industry, I think is challenging for many other industries, because the salaries have been high there, and there have been attractive and exciting jobs. At the same time, it is important that we see the possibilities that the oil and gas industry has into the green shift. I mean, there are things that are changing now. Several are more offensive, and more industries see where we are going, and are busy attracting also young people who want to be part of the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e522	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e527	Differences in Norway are increasing. The lowest-paid have experienced a real wage decline in recent years, while many at the top have seen large increases in addition to the average wage growth. In the last few days, we have even witnessed that someone has also taken out double wages, and that the Prime Minister confirms that it is quite okay to charge double wages. The oil peaks were given, for example: average 15.9 pst. Last year’s wage increase – the Executive Director of the oil industry had an average wage increase of 15.9 p.p. There were increased bonuses that pulled the payroll, but still: it's part of a picture. We've seen that 15 of the wholly or partly state-owned companies gave their top managers in growth a total compensation of 10 pst. or more from 2017 to 2018. The average salary growth was then 2.8 pst. The government’s own overview of the development of remunerations to executive directors shows that the top managers of six of the seven state-owned listed companies had a wage growth above the average for employees in 2018. Four of these top managers got an increase of over 10 pst. My question goes to the Minister of Industry. When you see Equinor's leadership, which has a starting point of over 16 million. kr, and further Telenor over 15 mill. kr and Norsk Hydro of more than 15 mill. kr, there is reason to ask yourself how this turns out when we are faced with a paycheck – a paycheck is really quite essential that the trade union movement and ordinary workers are holding back, given the competitiveness of Norwegian business. How will the Minister of Economic Affairs contribute to the cessation of the pay-roll granted by individual leaders, where the state is a whole or a partner, and to their understanding of their role, what it expresses, in relation to ordinary peoples in the situation where they, for example, are. are moderated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e536	In the ownership message that is now being treated in Stortinget, we are clear that remuneration and incentives should be used to promote the company's objectives. We are also clear and concerned that the remuneration – I say remuneration, not pay, because they get more than just pure pay; they can have pension obligations, they can have bonus schemes, which the representative is also involved in – must be competitive, but not pay-leading. We're concerned that the board of directors will contribute to moderation. It is the boards that determine the remuneration of the employees, not the state as such, but as the owner of the companies we are occupied with it. We are concerned that it should be competitive, but not pay-paying, and we are concerned that governments should contribute to moderation. Then we're busy with one more thing that I think is important, and that's openness around the remuneration. There has to be transparency, just to be able to have these discussions as well, because there's no desire on the part of the state to be the payroll leader. On the contrary, it's a point that we're going to be competitive, but not payroll. I have no indication that we're not there, and that we're paying. But these are companies that are difficult to compare with other companies, because companies are different, and there's not another company that you can compare with that is completely equal. But at least that's the clear assumption for the state that owns the government to work after.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e548	It would be interesting to hear a little bit more about what the Minister of Industry will actually do to limit the leadership wage developments we've seen in the state-owned companies, in whole or in part, because even if you stick to competitive and non-wage-leading standards, there's no doubt from the statistics that most people are wage-earners. And when you also think about heads, it's very clear what the picture is. We asked for a little bit more detail a while ago. It shows that Argentum, DNB, Hydro, the Seafood Council, etc. has not even stated in their statements of wage development that one must follow the guidelines of the State. We have also recorded that in some contexts the state has had a protocol on just such things. What will the Council of State actually do to ensure that the governments follow up what is the state's very clear, explicit objectives in the guidelines? Would she be more aggressive than the predecessor in replacing the regimes where one does not understand that showing moderation and following the guidelines is an essential part of the social contract of the state-owned companies as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e555	The board of directors determines the salary, but we use our ownership in the way that we present the ownership message where our opinion on the matter is shown. We use the arenas we have to face our expectations to the rulers. It's hard to compare rules to each other. And to whether you are profitable or competitive: we manage a large ownership on behalf of the Norwegian people. It's important that we get the skills that are needed to make sure that we have the highest possible return over time in those companies. That's what's our goal of ownership in many of the companies involved. But we as the state and as the owner should be clear that the boards are going to be moderate, and that we are not going to be payroll leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e562	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e567	I thank you for your answer. It's a big and important problem, and it's a much bigger problem than what you're really thinking about. Because when some leaders — no matter who, but especially where the government has interests — grant more than the ordinary people can initially imagine, and get a wage increase that may be greater than many years’ wages, it becomes completely unreasonable. And it's pretty important signals that are sent out in connection with it. I'd like to hear a little bit more concrete about this. To put it on track of something we might imagine: in the guidelines for the state, it says “should” 13 times. Does the Council agree that these should perhaps be replaced by ‘shall’? With regard to transparency, could it be relevant to new ways of informing the Storting about leadership wage developments that exceed what is normal – and do I also think about remuneration?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e576	Openness about the remuneration these leaders get, I think it's important to have. Although I understand the starting point of the representative, my starting point is that these are leaders who manage great values on behalf of the taxpayers and the community, and I am concerned that we have to get the people who are most fit to do that task. We must then be able to offer competitive conditions. So we can mean what we want about how much it should be, but it's now so that these top managers earn a lot today, they're going to do it still, and we have to compete in the market to get the best heads to manage our common values. That's what's my goal. We have to pay what we need to get the people we need. But we're not going to be the payroll.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e583	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e588	I'm a little scared when the Minister of Industry says we have to pay what we have to pay, because then we haven't followed the debate that is going on among some leaders, directors, etc., where one very clearly says that we have to start adapting the management salaries to a global level, for example, in many of the Norwegian companies here. I believe that this is totally unreasonable, and at the same time, positive leadership also limits Norway. So that entry I'm worried about. But for this with transparency: can the Minister of Industry imagine reporting and explaining to the Storting about the companies that are breaking the moderation, in the sense that, for those who allow for the development of management wages to be higher than what is normal wage growth in society, it is reported to the Stortinget in an appropriate way, and that the Stortinget gets – let's say – debated that kind of relationship, because it is absolutely essential in terms of the formation of wages in society? It is clear that it is important to get rid of all the provocations, which are about accountability in the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e595	I have some problems seeing which arena it would be natural to report about it. What's important to me is that there's openness around it, so that the information flows to those who have an interest in it – including big business representatives, if it is. But I do not immediately see that it is natural to pick up all the management salaries in the state for a separate matter to be delivered to Stortinget. What we as the government has now presented to the Storting is the ownership message, which says something in general about what our intentions are, what we want the governor to do. It's moderating, it's not being pay-paying. But at the same time, we're going to attract the skills that are needed, and that will vary from company to company and from what situation a company is in. It's like that today, it'll be like that in the future. But transparency and knowledge of the remuneration that is being provided, I think it's important that the boards provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e600	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e605	There are few debates in the UK that generate more words than debates on rent wages. "Moderation" has traditionally our word. Now it's openness, which I don't know how many times the government has said. But if you're going to bring this down to what's really going on, I have two questions for the Council of State: are the rents, after the Council of State's view, in companies where the state is wholly or partly owned, too high today? That's the first question. The second question is, if one thinks they're too tall, does one intend to do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e610	I have no reason to say that some of the leaders of companies in which the state has ownership have too much pay today. I assume that the board of directors have assessed the salary level in line with our signals, i.e. that they should not be pay-leading, but that they should be competitive. I assume that there have been separate assessments in each case, and I have a expectation that the directors will show moderation in the future. But I do not have the basis today to say that one or more of the directors of publicly owned companies have too high a salary in relation to the competitive situation and the situation of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e616	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e621	It should be very clear to the Minister of Industry that the pay gap between people with normal wages and rents has increased over time. Based on what has been said in the debate today, there is nothing to suggest that the government and the Council of State intend to do something about this. I think when a person talks about openness, it's just as good to be honest, and then my question is: will the Council of State live well with the fact that the wage differences between leaders and ordinary people continue to increase the next few years, as long as this happens, as the Council of State says, in openness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e626	I'm still going to be concerned that the controllers are going to show moderation. I'm still going to be concerned that we're not going to be paying. But I'm also going to be concerned that we're going to get the people we need to manage our common great values. It's in no way that the state that owns is just going to sit there. We're going to face our vision, which is that it should be moderated, and that we have expectations that the rulers will do it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e631	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e636	My question goes to the Council of State Iselin Nybø. A number of measures on Norway’s CO 2 emissions are now being proposed in order to achieve the 40 pst target. emission reduction. With regard to the measures now proposed for industry, how much investment does Norwegian industry need to invest to achieve these planned objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e646	I can't stand here now and give a concrete amount, there are different measures that will have different price caps, but if the representative sends me a written question, I'll see if I can make an overview of the estimated costs of the relevant measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e651	Here we have now been driving for a long time and proposed measures. We have been through Climate Change in 2030, where, among other things, it is said that with the measures investigated, in nine years we will be able to reduce industrial emissions by 2.7 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent. Then we started to get some time to know what this will cost the industry. But there is one thing that is absolutely certain, that is that it will require some very large investments. Part of the business community is concerned that this will affect competitiveness, which in the worst case will lead to closures and unemployment. Is this something that worries the Council of State as well, or does she think that this is some of the price we have to pay to be the best in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e659	I'm worried, but that's the change we have to go through. It is absolutely essential that we succeed in the green shift, and the industry must take its part. At the same time, our industry is in a competitive situation that makes them also dependent on countries with which they compete, through the same transition to keep them competitive. They also see the opportunities that lie there – that if they are at the earliest, it gives them a competitive advantage because demand is going to change, and they also want to develop technologies and products that are being sought in Europe and in the world, which are also to be shifted through the green. So on the one hand, there are some formidable challenges we're facing, but those challenges also give us some opportunities. I am concerned also to see the opportunities that this gives our industry and our business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e664	There will be follow-up questions – first Bengt Rune Strifeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e669	Most small and medium-sized enterprises provide a basis for important jobs in districts. Their contribution to climate change will be very small for each individual, while the investment and transport costs associated with climate cuts will be significant for each enterprise – with the negative consequences it can have for these jobs. Does the Council of State consider this to be good district policy, and does the Council of State think it will help to maintain and strengthen jobs in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e676	It's not just Norway that's going through this green shift. It's going to be the rest of Europe; it's going to be the rest of the world. The challenges we face are formidable, and they are not formidable to just us and our business life, but to the whole world. We should not underestimate the challenge it is, nor the concern that many people feel for their job, their job and their business life. But I think there is also a potential here, I think there are also some opportunities, and I think we are well equipped in Norway to lie in front of some things that give us some advantage – yes, some competitive advantage – in the global and European context. But that there are some formidable challenges, I fully agree. Our businesses along the coast often export, and they often compete in e.g. a European market. The fact that they're also going through this green shift makes them equal, even with the challenges they're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e684	Jon Georg Dale – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e689	I am initially pleased that the Council of State so clearly confirmed that Norwegian industry is in competition, and that there must therefore be a link between what we do domestically and what happens outside. The problem is that when the government has strengthened its climate ambition, it has left the door and said that one should not initially use these mechanisms. This means that Norwegian industry can have completely different conditions of competition from industry elsewhere in Europe and in the world, and with the few result that we lose jobs in Norway. With the offensive hold the Council of State has had in the previous answers, it is natural that the Council of State can guarantee that Norwegian industry will pay no more for its emissions than other places in the world than industry. Can the Council of State guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e696	Now this Council of States has been the Council of State long enough for me to know that giving guarantees from the pulpit on the Storting is rarely a good idea. I would like to say on a general basis that the competitive situation is of course important for our entire business. But I'm concerned that we can't just look at the challenges; we also have to look at the opportunities. I feel that we have an industry and a business that sees for itself that this is where they are going. They see for themselves that they need to change in order to be able to exist in the future, and they are busy working with the state to find out where there are market shares to take in the development of e.g. new technologies and the opportunities offered by the green shift. But no guarantee is given to the representative right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e701	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e706	Let me rephrase the question that the representative Dale just asked. With regard to the CO 2 tax exemption for key parts of the process industry that were removed from the State budget on a proposal from the then Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, which has imposed on Norwegian industrial companies double the instruments – both the quota obligation and the CO 2 tax – thus a clear competitive disadvantage on those companies: will the Council of State contribute to the elimination of these charges again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e717	I assume that the representative understands that there is something that is being addressed in the state budget, that there is a process we are doing now, and that therefore I am not here to answer the question he is asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e722	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e736	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who is directly responsible. Question 9, by Kari Henriksen, representative of the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e752	‘Widerøe reported on 17 February that they are planning to cut 15 per cent of the commercial flights in the short-haul network, a cut of 4000 departures per year. Over time, opposition has warned against heavy tax increases in recent years making more commercial short-haul routes unprofitable. Will the government take the initiative to reduce the tax burden on flights on the short-haul network and will the government exempt flights below 20 tonnes from air passenger charges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e759	The rates of taxation shall be adopted by the Stortinget for one year at a time, see: The Constitution § 75(a) Therefore, the rates of the air passenger charge, like all other tax rates, are assessed against the overall tax regime in the annual budgets. That will be the case in the future as well. The air passenger fee was introduced in 2016 and had only one rate. The main purpose of the fee is to obtain revenue from the State. It is made simplest and most effective when the fee is designed with the lowest possible rates and exemptions. Tax exemptions increase the administrative costs both for the operators and for the authorities. From 1 April 2019, the air passenger charge was changed in an environmentally friendly direction. The fee was then charged at two rates, one low rate for flights within Europe and one high rate for flights out of Europe. The conversion resulted in an increase in the rate of flights departing from Europe, while the rate of flights within Europe was reduced. This has contributed to increased profitability, for example: for the district short-distance network. Support through the exemption for aeroplanes below 20 tonnes takes all flights with aeroplanes below 20 tonnes, including those that are commercially profitable. Such a derogation is therefore an expensive and inconclusive instrument to prevent the closure of short routes in the districts. An exemption for aeroplanes below 20 tonnes may be considered as an advantage for individual carriers in practice. Consequently, the exemption would involve State aid not authorised under the EEA Agreement. In that case, the exemption must be notified to and approved by ESA. In order for the ESA to approve the exemption, the measure must be necessary, it must be an appropriate instrument and it must be proportionate and have an incentive effect. It would be difficult to obtain the acceptance of ESA for such conditions to be met. The government is committed to ensuring that Norway has a good and forward-looking aviation infrastructure throughout the country. This is what we do, among other things. through the purchase of domestic air routes. Government purchases of domestic flights ensure the operation of non-commercially profitable air routes. This is a more accurate and effective instrument to prevent the closure of unprofitable routes than an exemption from air passenger charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e774	Unfortunately, what the Council of State is now describing is a long line of argument against the imposition of measures that could remedy the situation of the Republic, and not only for Opposition, but also for other companies operating domestic air transport. The current government has increased the taxes on Norwegian domestic air transport by approx. Two million. kr – the air passenger charge, which came overnight without a proper investigation and with major consequences, but also increased CO2 tax and increased VAT. Repentance has warned years after year that what is now happening is going to happen. They have also said that they should have done so in the past, according to the framework conditions they have, but because of their responsibility for society, they have helped to maintain the path in the hope that the framework conditions would change. Is it possible to expect that the framework conditions will be improved in the future for Norwegian domestic air transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e781	Now, the framework conditions are not changed in the interests of a company, but in the interests of people in the districts – if there is to be a discussion theme. These are issues that often arise from the annual budgets. I am also aware that the Central Party has submitted a proposal for a representative, and that gives Stortinget the opportunity to discuss these questions. I am concerned that we must both ensure that we have effective climate action – I am aware that the Centre Party is not as concerned about it as other parties in Stortinget – and ensure that there are good framework conditions for flights in District Norway. The most effective instrument, as I have pointed out, is that the State is going on the FOT routes, not that measures that could potentially be contrary to the EEA Agreement are being put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e786	Here, there is a sum of measures — including strengthening the allocation of the FOT routes — which the Centre Party has proposed in the current year’s budget without being endorsed by the government. This is about VAT, which the Senterpartie has proposed to reduce, and which the government has opposed, and it is about the arrangement of the air passenger charge. It is clear that the exemption from air passenger charges for the smallest aeroplanes will have an effect, in particular, on the smallest airports, which are important around Norway, rather than increase the charges on international air transport. The government has not only signaled that they will maintain the charges, they will also increase air transport charges further. Can the Council of State now clarify the direction to be taken, in the interests of people living around Norway? Should the fees be further increased? Should CO2 tax and VAT be increased? Or do the Norwegian national air transport charges have to be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e793	The representative knows very well that these are issues addressed in the context of the State budget. It would be very imprudent if a finance minister would keep commenting on the level of fees and what would potentially be proposed for next year. It should be a good route offer throughout the country. We're going to fix that. The proposals made by the Central Party would never have the chance to get a pass on the red-green side, I think I can say with certainty. Proposals are also potentially contrary to the EEA Agreement. I am aware that the Centre Party is not particularly concerned with either the climate challenges or the EEA Agreement. On the other hand, it is the government, and we are going to facilitate a good and competitive flight offer. But we do not challenge the EEA Agreement on this, and we must ensure that we also use the necessary climate policy instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e803	The question is: ‘The Council of State refers to increased resources in the police, but the police chief of the Inland Police District Johan Breek writes in Gudbrandsdølen Day 20 February 2020: ‘Inland police districts must save nearly 50 million in the coming year, while demanding an increase in the number of police year-olds.’ Does the Council of State consider that reduced ambitions, longer processing time and several provisions are in line with the Storting's ambitions and decisions, or will necessary resources be allocated?»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e812	Initially, I would like to stress that I understand of course that the police districts feel that the economic space is limited. The demands and expectations of the police are high. It will always be possible to wish for larger budgets. The government has actually increased the police budget by approx. 4.4 B.C.E. kr since 2013, of which over 3.3 billion. kr is on the police operating budget. Inland has, like all other districts, received more money every year than they had the year before. Over the period 2013-2020, the Inland has had a real increase in the budget of about EUR 15 million. 140 million. kr. In 2020, the budget for the police district is about Eight hundred and sixty million. kr. The funds have been strongly mobilised by the police, the implementation of police reform, the strengthening of preparedness and social security, border control and return work, ICT modernisation and ICT security and the fight against trafficking in human beings, sexual offences and violence and child abuse. Since 2013, police staff have increased by about 10 %. 2 800 years' worth of work. Nearly 1,500 police years ago have come to the police districts. Manning has increased in all police districts. The police directorate reports that since 2013, the Inland police district has received approximately 50 % of the total number of police districts. 127 more annual works, of which more than 100 are police officers. In the Inland Police District, police coverage has increased from 1.29 to 1.6 from 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2019. As of 31 December 2019, the district has a total crew of approx. 890 years. In 2020, it was granted over 20 billion. To the police. Police districts are a priority. In addition to specific means of increasing police staff, this includes: also granted 83 million. kr to allow for a strengthening of the exploration capacity. Like the representative of the Central Party, the government is also concerned with low detail management and high trust. The Ministry of Justice and Defence therefore governs the police through budget allocation and annual letters of allocation. It is the Police Directorate which, in its performance agreement with the police districts in 2020, allocates the allocated funds between districts, together with expectations of results in different areas. Police officers must then give priority to deploying resources where the need is greater. I trust the police are doing this in a good way. Clear priorities are needed. High-quality effective criminal justice is one of the priority objectives for 2020. The ambition is to solve as many issues as possible, while at the same time the quality is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e833	Yes — because there is a very difficult link between resources and ambitions. The Inland Police Master also writes in his post: ‘The budget situation needs to be resolved independently of our clear societal mission, which is to contribute to a safe society for the citizens of the interior. However, it is not to be avoided that the savings measures will be labelled.’» The local team leader of the Inland Police Union, Reidun Martinsen, says to Avisa Hadeland today: ‘We have a lot that is good in the reform, but it doesn’t come with enough resources. Work is becoming more and more complex.’ The chief of police is clear: the ambitions must go down. Then I wonder: What are the issues and tasks that the Council of State intends to set in motion in connection with the so-called near-police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e848	Now I have explained how this government, through our years in government, has prioritised the police, has prioritised more policemen, has prioritised the investigation capabilities. So it's true that things are more complex. That is why this police reform is so important. That is what everyone in the party is saying, and then I'm going to record that the Central Party is opposed to the reform. The quality has increased, but we're now using about 35 pst. of the resources to investigate 3 pst. by the cases, and those are the most serious issues. It's killing, rape and assaulting children; it's the priority tasks. That means we're not going to be able to prioritize everything. We have to give priority to the most important thing, and the police do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e855	That's when I wonder if it's local preparedness that gets down priority. Because it is written in several local newspapers about a tough reality in the police districts. At the Gudbrandsdöln Day, February 11, we could read that the police had to cut into the million - year - old Gudbrandsdalen and have had a temporary job stop. Trustees are asked to find cut posts. In Valdres we already know that they are struggling to fill shifts and duty lists and have more people on sleep shifts than before. The government’s reform provides a higher threshold for outreach and fewer staff with several tasks in the individual police offices. Vacant jobs are kept empty, and the research capacity locally is pushed to the edge. Does the Council of State feel that preparedness is better with more policemen on a sleepy watch?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e862	The readiness in 2020 is much better than when we joined the government in 2013. This reform has been right, and it is necessary. That doesn't mean it's not demanding. However, competence has increased, and the number of annual works has increased, with 2,800 annual works distributed throughout the districts. So that's the number. This means that the competence and level of knowledge — and also the quality, says the Riksadvokat — have increased. There are, of course, demands for increased budgets, but my clear starting point is that preparedness has become much better. We've learned a lot after 2013. It is a priority that police districts do, and we need to have confidence that they do it based on their local assumptions and challenges, and they are different in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e872	‘The Minister for Health has answered a question from me about rehabilitation in the event of language problems, cf. written question No. 739 [[2019-2020]] What will the Council of State do to ensure that everyone in the whole country will receive good, free logoped help when they need it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e879	I would like to stress that all municipalities should be offered logoped services. But the municipalities are free to organise this offer. The services provided by the logopeds may be defined under both the Law of the Kindergarten, the Training Act and the Health and Care Services Act. In line with the government’s proposal, Stortinget has legalised the competence of municipal health and care services. As of 1 January 2018, Section 3-2 of the Health and Care Act states that the municipalities must have linked to themselves doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, midwives and nurses in order to fulfil their responsibilities as caregivers. From 2020, the obligation was extended to include psychologists and ergot therapists. In the preparatory work for the provision, it is clarified in point 3.6.1 that the proper competence of the municipal health and care services is so fundamental as to be able to provide the necessary and sound services that certain requirements of competence should be identified directly by law. In the extension of this, it is stated, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Such a statutory list of core competences will not be exhaustive as to the type of competence or professional qualifications that each municipality must provide. [[...]] For many patients and users, the necessary health and care services will consist of the sum of different contributions from a number of professional professionals. Municipal responsibility for health and care services is comprehensive and complex. Municipalities often have to have access to a wide range of staff with different competences in order to be able to discharge municipal responsibilities properly. In addition to the core competence of a statutory list, the municipality itself must consider the type of staff with which it is necessary to hire or contract in order to fulfil its responsibilities in order to ensure the proper and necessary provision of health and care services. A list of core competencies shall not, in this way, alter the otherwise required service provision of the municipality.» In line with this, a municipality may not refrain from providing logoped services to persons who need it, whether adults or children, if the service is a prerequisite for the provision of special educational assistance, special education or necessary health and care services of sound quality and scope. This is clearly a service that municipalities should offer to citizens when they need it, including adults, but they are themselves free to organise this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e893	SV wants everyone who needs logoing help, like me, to get where they live. We want logoped to be a core competence of municipal health and care services. Logoped is not specifically mentioned as a necessary core competence at this time. Will the Minister of Health ensure that logopedic services become a statutory shell service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e898	We do not now intend to extend the list of core competences that I believe are necessary for the municipalities to be able to perform proper services. But again, as I said in my answer, that does not mean that that list is exhaustive, and it is quite obvious that municipalities need to have logoped services in order to be able to perform many different statutory tasks, both within the kindergarten law and the training law, and not least within the healthcare law. However, the way the municipalities organise this offer will vary from municipality to municipality according to the appropriateness of each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e903	I'm a little sad. There were no plans for logging services to become a shell service. Another question: Logopeds provide the necessary treatment for us who need language training. Adult training is reduced and responsibility is transferred to private logo horses. These logopeds do not have the same requirements for record keeping and interaction with other professional groups, since they are not authorised. Only Estonia, Croatia, Denmark, Bulgaria, Hungary and Norway have not authorised health professionals for logopedi. Is the Minister of Health going to authorise logo pedigree, so that logo pedigree services are quality assured and accessible to everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e910	The personnel authorised under health legislation are personnel who are mainly employed in healthcare. Logopeds work in very many other parts of the service, including. within training. This means that it does not necessarily mean that it is right to give a health authorisation to logopeds. The question raised by the representative is related to legislation dealing with healthcare services, and it applies to all those who carry out health services and services under health law, regardless of whether they have an authorisation or not. It is important to stress that it does not depend on whether the person doing the job has an authorisation or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e920	‘Norway has received large sums for several years from the EEA allocation to Greece in return. This happens at the same time that there is a humanitarian asylum crisis in the Greek islands and very serious deficiencies in asylum treatment in the country. Both refugees and locals suffer. Norway has now concluded a new agreement with Greece on the EEA funds. How will the government ensure that the EEA funds are actually used to improve the situation, and will the government take the initiative to allocate funds that may not be used for humanitarian aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e927	There is little doubt that there are both great needs and difficult conditions in many of the camps. Over the current funding period, 353 million. NOK 33 million. EUR earmarked by the EEA funds for asylum and migration in Greece. It is divided into a donor-driven and a Greek-driven asylum programme. The focus is on capacity building of the Greek appliance and reception capacity and quality. Strengthening Greek asylum management will help to speed up the processing of applications for those in the camps, and it will also establish around 300 places for minor asylum seekers in Greece from the second half of the year. During the previous funding period, we, in cooperation and in agreement with the Greek authorities, made more redeployments so that the total amount of asylum and migration finally amounted to 257 million. kr. Support for the Moria camp was not originally part of the migration programmes, but donors and Greek authorities agreed in 2015 to redeploy funds to respond to significant needs there. In Athens today, the Greek-driven programme is being launched under the EEA funds. One of the projects will strengthen the capacity of the National Center for Social Solidarity, the ECKA, to provide just one-off minors and other vulnerable groups. The project's at 23 million. kr. The ECCA is subject to the Greek Ministry of Labour, Social Insurance and Solidarity and is inter alia: responsible for the accommodation and protection of lone minors. Our exposure through EEA funds is largely at the heart of the challenges facing Greece. The programmes are strengthened by solid partnerships with Norwegian and international expertise. We are also based on the experience we have gained from the previous programming period, and the Foreign Affairs Directorate assists as a partner for both the donor-driven and the Greek-driven programme, in close cooperation with the Greek authorities. The Ministry of Justice, UNE, the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, UNHCR and IOM are also partners. They are going to have a continuous follow-up to the programmes in question. We also expect all available funds to be used as planned. Should money use be shifted in time, which is possible, the aim is that payments should follow the plans. Through the EEA funds, Norway makes a significant and relevant contribution to remedying the situation in the refugee camps in Greece. Late this year, we are going to launch a process of reviewing the status of all EEA programmes in all countries. It will also lead to decisions on the use of reserve assets, and it will give rise to the reallocation of programmes and projects based on agreement between the competent national authorities and the donor countries. We will of course also consider the arrangements for our involvement in Greece in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e940	It's hoping the new program works better than the old one, because now it doesn't work. I've been in these camps, and the situation there is not quality in reception. So vulnerable persons sitting there are not identified, because they are now required to be certified in a public hospital, a military hospital or other public health professionals, and they do not exist there like the refugees, for example. in the Moria camp, er. Kids can't go to school. There is no certainty in the camps. Food and sanitary conditions are under every criticism. Here there is a real need for the government to control this money far better than today and to ensure that the quality of the humanitarian work being done in the camps is actually raised. Can the Council of State ensure that this will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e945	As I was about to do, we're of course going to follow closely the implementation of the programmes, just as we did in the previous programming period. It is obvious that there are significant challenges for the major beneficiary countries, because arrivals have increased again, and that is also one of the reasons why this is an important topic that both the Minister of Justice and I regularly discuss with our colleagues. We see a very clear need to find pan-European solutions that can now help relieve the most distressed recipient countries, and there is also a problem we are facing. I believe it is important to continue, because if we do not achieve a better European burden-sharing, as Norway has said, we can contribute on a voluntary basis, even if we are not a member of the European Union, we cannot solve the major challenges we see either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e952	If you've been following this implementation closely in the previous period and you're going to do it the same way now, I'm not optimistic. So now the situation in Greece and in the Greek islands is a dangerous greenhouse for extreme right forces. The locals suffer, the refugees suffer. Thus, it is European countries – Finland, France and Germany – that have now agreed to accept, for example, several of the lone kids sitting there, without schooling, without help, without security. What is the reason why Norway cannot do like Finland, France and Germany, but must wait for the most conservative and right-wing regimes in Europe, which will never reach out and say yes? It's going to end up in a situation where there's going to be more dangerous and more dangerous in Greece, and where more and more people are going to go down in these camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e957	The government has been very clear that we want pan-European solutions because it is the only thing that can provide sustainability in the long term to address the migration challenge we see. The exposure to the representative Andersen is commendable – but I have to say that I am very surprised why SV has cut 321 million in the budget for 2020. SEK in the contributions, inter alia: to vulnerable countries. Contributions are intended to prevent many people from feeling that they need to make an effort to stabilise the situation in their home countries. It is not an end in itself for people to spend on a dangerous flight across the Mediterranean or via other migration routes. It is much better that we are able to contribute to stabilising a situation, providing work, education and security in the countries from which people come. Escape from war is one situation, but fleeing because you want a better life – which is a legitimate wish – is another situation, and then SV should help prevent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e973	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e981	I would like to ask the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation the following questions: ‘In the Groruddalen and Oslo East we see an increasing tendency for rental companies and speculators to buy up single dwellings and convert them into a number of rental homes or small rentals. It is even announced that the villas can become ‘renting machines’. Where there is much more living in an area than before, this infrastructure overloads such as water, sewerage, traffic, parking, trash disposal, etc. We also see that the character of the strokes is changing, and that families of children are pulling out. What measures does the Council of State think can be taken to counteract such developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e990	The debate on so-called 'hybridisation' has been going on for a while, and I am, like my predecessor Monica Meland, well aware of the problem. Reinforcement of measures against residential speculation and hybridisation is also a point in the Granavolden platform. In May 2019, at the hearing, the government sent a proposal to regulate the restructuring of the planning and building law and the ownership law. The proposal in the case of the Law on Planning and Buildings is intended to clarify the authority of the municipality to adopt provisions for the division of a housing unit into units in the municipal plan. In addition, the Government proposed a new authorisation to adopt such provisions in the regulatory plan. These proposals meant that access to regulation of the hybridisation process becomes part of the ordinary planning system. This can provide a better basis for managing the development and use of the housing stock. The proposal in respect of the ownership law implies that a section owner must obtain the agreement of the annual meeting in order to convert an apartment into furniture. The proposals received broad support in the consultation, and we are now working on the follow-up to the consultation and aim to return to the Stortinget with a legislative proposal in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e999	I thank you for the answer and for the positive parts there. The Ownership Act I have worked with here at Stortinget, and I am aware that progress is being made there, so that's good. But this applies to villas that are not regulated by it, and then there are other areas. The Council of State said that changes should be made in such a way that municipalities have the possibility to impose restrictions on the hygiene of their regulatory plans, that a new legal basis should be introduced. My question is about what is called Chapter 2 of the Building Regulation, which mentions what is subject to an application. It seems like you're isolating it to self-contained units, but not when it's hyblicating, i.e. when it's hyblics, which are often not independent units, but where you use the common kitchen, etc. Will the Council of State also look at the building regulations and Chapter 2 thereof, because if it applies, it is difficult for the municipality to overdo it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1010	Hybridisation will often represent a change in use and will therefore be subject to an application. In order to reject the application, the municipality must have a refusal residence in the law. For example, the municipality may reject the change in use if it is not in line with fire safety requirements. The municipality may also have the opportunity to reject the application on the basis of today's Planning and Building Act § 31-6. This provision states that the municipality may refuse an application and, inter alia: breakdown of the dwelling into furniture, even if the measure otherwise complies with all the requirements. The condition for refusing is that § 31-6 of the Planning and Building Act is applied in the municipal plan, and the provision is initially a suitable instrument for the municipality to prevent the hygiene. But then the challenge is that the determination and how it is used is little known. The municipalities are therefore using it little, and I am not familiar with the extent to which it is used by the municipality of Oslo, for example. But this is also part of the background to the legislative changes we have had to be consulted, which will make it easier to counteract unwanted hyblication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1017	I think the Council of State gives interesting answers, and it is important that the municipalities know all the possibilities that the law can provide. What makes me in doubt about what will be the current legislation, what one has to do with the possibility of refusing in a municipality, is what I mentioned in the building case regulation that mentions what is mandatory, where it is stated in Chapter 2, Section 2-2 of the building case regulation that division is subject to application only when the units are ‘physically separated’, i.e. there is no internal connection between the units. And a furniture will often not be physically separated; it will often be common kitchen or other common functions – common bathroom, toilet, etc. It may be that the legislation goes a bit across here, and it may be difficult for municipalities to orient themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1024	I agree. It is clear that at that moment something goes from being an internal furniture to becoming a separate part of the dwelling, there will also be a number of demands. Not only does it concern fire safety, but it also concerns parking, access to outdoor areas, etc. So there's a reason to take a closer look at this problem as well. But I think it'll be a strength that access to regulate hyblication becomes part of the ordinary planning system, as we're now proposing. I think that can make it easier for municipalities to take action and control the development and use of the housing stock as they want. So it's a challenge that some people do housing without applying, and it makes the municipalities depend on tips to make them aware of the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1036	«Recently we could read about a 57-year-old cleaner on the railway in Trondheim who started working in the then NSB 40 years ago. Now this cleaner and a dozen of her colleagues in Traffic Services are being cancelled as a result of the railway reform. How does this fit with repeated promises from the government parties that no one should lose their job as a result of the rail reform, the Council of State seems to be treating workers in this way, and will he do something to keep their jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1043	I would like to thank the representative Sverre Myrli for the question. When implementing major reforms, it is important to ensure that they do not compromise their working conditions. I think there's been a lot of right moves to facilitate a well-functioning railway sector, the companies have come up with good and forward-looking pension schemes in cooperation with the added ones, and the new train companies seem to be able to offer them attractive jobs with at least as good conditions as before. I think the transaction transfer is a very good principle because it ensures that the job added further. So the question the representative Myrli asks: when it comes to the reindeers of NSB Trafikkservice AS, as the representative Myrli pointed out in his question, I understand that these can experience some uncertainty in connection with the train being run by new operators. NSB Traffic Service AS is 100 pst. owned by the Vy group. The company won the assignment to clean up the train that Go-Ahead runs on Sørlandsbanen, but for Traffic Pack Nord the situation is still not clear. SJ has put out the cleaning of trains on offer. NSB Traffic Service is one of the providers. SJ has not yet chosen a content provider. If the SJ selects the NSB Traffic Service as a maintenance provider, the termination could be cancelled. In this case, after the Ministry of Transport is familiar with, initially everyone will keep the job, but the number depends on SJ's cleaning needs. Today, the company has the cleaning assignment for Vy on the routes that SJ will start operating on 8 June this year. At the end of January of this year, 23 people were added to NSB Traffic Service. This applies to 16 added to Trondheim and 7 added to Bodø. Through their collective agreement, they had added six months' notice period. We have informed the Ministry of Transport that they have been added to the NSB Traffic Service that the company will help them to find new jobs as far as possible if the maintenance contract goes to another maintenance operator. This may involve assistance and advice, writing CVs, contacting Nav and using local recruitment companies and the company’s network. A survey has already been carried out of what they want to help – and if they are willing to move – through individual conversations with all of this debt. According to the Railway Directorate, SJ Norway has held negotiations and clarification meetings with various suppliers with a view to signing an agreement during February 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1054	All the technical things are certainly right, and that's okay, but the core of the matter is that a political promise has been made from the four parties that were behind the railway reform – the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party – here in the hall, at public meetings outside the Storting, at meetings with the employees' organisations and many other places. It was explicitly said that no one should get worse pay and working conditions as a result of the railway reform, and no one should lose their job. The cleaner mentioned in the question is called Wenche Bye. She's here at the mall today, she's 57 years old and has worked 40 years in the railroad. Does the Minister of Transport think that she is satisfied with the answer he has now given, and does the Minister of Transport think that the Wenche Bye perceives that this is in line with the promises previously made by the four parties behind the railway reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1061	This is a matter that has actually been resolved through the contracts that have now been concluded. There is then a principle of business transfer on the train running itself. For those who are subcontractors, there is another part of the contract that has been concluded. But as I'm telling you here, the situation for this person is not really clear because the contract for who is going to get the cleaning is not settled. This is actually going to be clarified in the month that we're now inside. So we don't have the answer to that question here today, but a contract has been signed, and it's been arranged for a business transfer on some parts – and not on other parts. It's a guide that I'm taking with me. But as I also say in my answer, I thought business transfer was a good principle precisely because it helps to secure the addition. But here's a contract that's already signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1066	Now this applies more than the Wenche Bye, there are twenty cleaners in Trondheim and Bodø, as the Council of State also said. Wenche Bye is a spokeswoman who has been elected for many years for the cleaners in the NSB and in the NSB Traffic Service. There's a lot of things that apply. In fact, these cleaners have for the last few years waived increases in wages and salaries; they have actually fallen in wages and salaries in order to be able to compete. So the thanks are that they are cancelled and can lose the job after many years of cleaning work on the railway. Governments mention business transfer, it is an important principle, but it does not apply to cleaners. This applies to those who drive trains, i.e. to drivers, to conductors, and to administrative staff – but it does not apply to workshop people, and it does not apply to cleaners. Could the Minister for Transport be aware that the rules on business transfer also apply to cleaners?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1073	As I said in my answer, I thought business transfer is a good principle because it ensures that the job is added regardless of who wins. That type of principle must be clarified before a contract is entered into. In the matter we are talking about now, an offer contract has been concluded, and SJ is now making its choices according to the contract that the State has arranged for. So it's a principle that has to be included when we're looking at new contracts. In case we consider here, the contract has already been concluded. In parts of that offer, there is a business transfer – and not on others. But when it comes to that representative Myrli asks: I think it's a good principle that we should follow, and we should look at it when we're going to review new contracts, but not for the contracts that have already been concluded – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1081	This question, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1086	‘On short notice and without being involved in advance, from 1 March onwards, universities and colleges are required to use State Building as an adviser in renting premises in the market. Does the Council of State see this undermining competition, giving lower market dynamics, and thus worse conditions for universities and colleges as tenants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1093	The short answer is no. But let me take the long answer: After salary, rental costs are the largest operating expenditure in the country. Renting of office premises in the market amounts to approximately 4.5 billion. kr per year. The government's objective is to reduce rental costs. A number of state-owned enterprises have been assisted in recent years by State-building in the negotiation of new market rental contracts. This has resulted in considerable savings for enterprises, instead of being able to use resources for their core business. That's good. The government carried out an area review of building and property policy in the State civil sector in 2018-2019. The consultant referred, inter alia, to: that the country’s rental of premises in the market should be professionalised in order to reduce its expenditure. In 2017, State Building negotiated state leases for 40 pst. reduction of expenditure compared with expiry of the agreements. This amounted to 90 million. kr saved per year. In 2018, 13 new leases were concluded where State Building was an adviser. These agreements will result in a total cost reduction of 291 million. DKK over 10 years. The fact that the State has a professional adviser does not undermine competition – on the contrary. Good purchasing competence strengthens the competition of those renting out premises to the State. That's what's important. State buildings already assist a number of state enterprises in acquiring premises in the market. The assistance covers everything from designing a workplace concept to moving in. The Brotherhood of Services is purchased in the market through framework agreements. State buildings shall not build a large apparatus itself but continue to purchase services in the market. For me, it is important that state establishments have functional premises with good availability for employees and visitors, at the lowest price possible. By exploiting State Building's experience and knowledge, and purchasing services tailored to needs, I'm sure that businesses get good premises while we free resources. By pooling the advice, we build skills and improve the overview of the entire portfolio of government rentals in the market. The acquisition of larger premises takes time, and many processes are in progress. Use of state buildings as advisor does not initiate work. For me, it is a point that individual businesses and state-building together need to find good and effective solutions for ongoing procurement processes. I trust they can do that. I do not share the concern of the representative Sandberg. On the contrary, the State shall be a demanding customer in order to reduce government costs for the rental of premises. In this way, we also contribute to strengthening competition in the market, to the joy of the state as a major tenant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1118	I thank the Minister of State for the answer, but my question was intended to be addressed to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. This is the third time I – in vain – try to get the State Councils of Universities and Universities on the track to answer questions about the right to dispose of property management. It's worrying, I think, that the higher education minister doesn't take that challenge, not least because the right-wing government itself has said that building is an essential resource for achieving national targets for both research and higher education. I note that the Ministry of Local Affairs claims that State Building will save enormous sums, and refers to contracts from 2018, which means 291 million. kr saved over 10 years. Can the Minister of State explain the assumptions and content of this calculation and whether it can be transferred to all sectors, including universities and colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1125	Let me first say that I am absolutely sure that the Council of Asheim had gladly asked to answer questions if it was within his constitutional responsibility to do so. He's just been sitting through an entire oral Question Time without getting a single question, so I'm going to think that he would be happy to have the opportunity to answer questions within his constitutional responsibility. However, state buildings are within my constitutional responsibility, and that's why I stand here and answer this question. The representative, Sandberg, says that I ‘repealed’ that money has been saved by using State Building as an adviser. Well, it's not a claim, it's demonstrable that there are significant reductions in the expenditure of the state that can be released to the business that we want the state to focus on, that is, the outlying. It must also be important in the higher education and research sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1132	I thank you again for the answer. Governments referred to the territorial review of construction and property policy. The government put on that report for four months before it was presented in April. The recommendations from here have met massive countermeasures, and the report itself is criticised by trade unions. So the government says it has made no decision in the matter. But it is that the area review recommends stronger management and centralised execution of rentals in the market. In concrete terms, it is recommended that agreements with a total value of more than 30 million be concluded. kr shall be treated by the professional community as a whole. This is almost identical to that imposed in the letter from the Ministry of Local Affairs on 31 January, which says that all except the police and Nav will use State Building for rental contracts of over 30 million kroner. kr. So then my question to the municipal minister is: on what basis can the municipal minister make recommendations from an area review that the government has not taken a position on, at least on February 2nd this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1141	As the representative rightly points out, the government has not concluded when it comes to the area review of the State civil sector. We believe, however, that it makes sense to use State Building as an adviser from 1 March to achieve better conditions in the market. As the figures I've already shown show, it's a huge sum to save on this, which can be released to the operational part of the business, and it must be important that we facilitate. Then we'll come back to how we're going to do it with the follow-up of the area review, but it's quite clear that there are different perceptions of the area review, not least in the sector that Sandberg is talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1155	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1164	‘In written question 22 November 2018, the Minister of Culture then was asked to initiate a dialogue with the Danish authorities on the transfer of the oldest preserved image of Bergen’s seal and other Norwegian medieval documents to Norway. The Council of State then invited the Swedish Archives Agency to make an enquiry to the University of Copenhagen, which then replied that such dialogue had to be conducted at political level. Recently, Iceland has taken such an initiative towards Denmark in order to obtain Icelandic manuscripts. Will the Council of State do the same?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1171	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for raising this issue in order to bring it to my attention. I really appreciate that. The documents to which the representative Lysbakken refers belong belong to the University of Copenhagen. They are part of a collection created by Icelandic historian Árni Magnússon. Some of these documents have an impact on Norwegian cultural history and relevance for Norwegian researchers. The collection Diplomata Norvegica covered initially over 1,900 documents, but after long negotiations, more than 1,100 of them were transferred to the Norwegian National Archives in 1937. These were documents that Árni Magnússon had borrowed from Norwegian bishop archives. The Swedish Archives Agency, which is the Norwegian Archives Agency, contacted the University of Copenhagen in January 2019 to investigate the possibility of returning the documents to Norway. The University of Copenhagen stated that they do not have the opportunity to enter into dialogue on the return of documents and that such dialogue must take place at government level between the two countries. The Swedish Archives Agency received offers from the University of Copenhagen on digital copies of the 870 documents, the University informed that these will be digitised according to the plan during 2020. The Swedish Archives Agency will publish these copies on digitalarchivet.no, which is Norway’s website for the publication of digital archive material. Such a solution will significantly facilitate access to documents by Norwegian historians, philologists, art historians and other researchers. However, digital copies cannot replace the original, physical, objects. That is why I want to follow the initiative of the representative Lysbakken. I welcome the question of transferring the documents in Árni Magnússon's meeting with my Danish and Icelandic colleague as soon as the occasion comes. I believe it is important that Norway connects with the processes in progress between Denmark and Iceland, so that we are represented if the handover of common Nordic medieval documents takes place. I thank the representative again for bringing the matter up and to my consciousness. I understand that these documents are of importance to many in Norway, not least to the sense of identity of the mountains.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1182	I would like to thank the Minister of Culture for what I think was a brilliant answer! Then we can take the initiative that is needed, and it will be very exciting to follow up on whether the Minister of Culture can get something out of it. I believe there are strong reasons why these documents should be in Norway. They're an important part of our cultural history. Then, of course, such a process must be handled with respect for our Danish friends. I am very pleased that the Minister of Culture said yes to entering into such a dialogue. The sail is going home, and I think this very year would be a great occasion for it, because then the Minister of Culture could have done something about it in what is Bergen's 950th anniversary. There may be an extra good opportunity to make such a transfer, or to have a decision on it, this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1189	I was in Bergen on Wednesday and Thursday last week. Then I got the 950th anniversary pin, but I don't wear it today – of course I should have had it! I would like to mention that good cooperation has led to the kind of exchanges that have led to, for example: a historical version of Magnus Lagbøte’s Law can be seen in the National Library’s exhibition room from tomorrow. I was there already today and got a little snitch on it. It's a fantastic opportunity that's just been made possible through good cooperation. So it's important that we approach this in a humble way. The documents belong to the University of Copenhagen. Norwegian authorities and cultural businesses do not have a legal requirement to take over the documents, but we can initiate a dialogue, and we can always hope for a good gift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1198	I think the state council's attitude to the mountain is very good. I thank you for that! So I think it's important to stress that even though the urban seal is important to us from Bergen, there's a lot of documents in these collections that matter to the whole nation. I agree with the Minister of Culture that we must do this on the Norwegian side in a kind way and with respect for those who have managed these documents for a long time, but I have the hope that, on the Danish side, too, you will see the reasonableness of it. I would like to ask the Minister of Culture a question. We know that our Icelandic friends too are in the same situation – there are many medieval Icelandic documents in the Arnamagnean Collection, as it is called, at the University of Copenhagen – and that the Icelandic Government has taken an initiative in dialogue with Denmark about it. I wonder if the Minister of Culture will contact the Icelandic Government to see if there are opportunities to cooperate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1207	I am aware that Iceland has raised the issue of the transmission of medieval documents from the collection of Árni Magnússon, and I will now examine how the Danish authorities are dealing with that proposal, and connect me to the dialogue that is already underway. Then it is important that we do it in parallel with avoiding the postponement of the work that the Danes are now planning to provide access to digital copies. I can tell the representative that I meet my Nordic colleagues at regular intervals – I have been told. I haven't done that in the past – I've been working for just over four weeks – but I've already told the ministry today that a point needs to be set up so that I can raise this issue with my colleagues on the first occasion – when the Minister of Culture meets his Nordic colleagues at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1219	‘The landfill of hazardous waste on the island of Lang Island is expected to be filled during 2024. For industry and municipal combustion plants, which depend on the ability to deliver hazardous waste, the lack of clarification creates a high degree of uncertainty. The hearing period for the report of the Committee of Experts is over. Will the government take responsibility for finding an alternative deposit, or will it be left to the market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1226	It is true that today's landfill for hazardous waste in Lang Island is considered to be full by 2024 and that a solution is needed. Over time, there has been a process in the Ministry of Climate and Environment to assess the role of the State in ensuring new treatment capacity for hazardous waste. In spring 2019, an expert selection of hazardous waste was set up to assess both how the amounts of hazardous waste could be reduced and how future treatment capacity for hazardous waste could be ensured. They made the recommendation in November last year. The report was sent on the phone, and as the representative Hansen says quite correctly, the hearing period is out – he went out on 15 January. The Ministry of Climate and Environment now assesses the follow-up. As part of it, a mission was given to the Environment Directorate to make various assessments of the report and recommendations from the selection. Work within the time limit of 1 April. Former Minister for Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen and former Minister for Industry Torbjørn Røe Isaksen have also had dialogue with key industrial actors on possible solutions. That dialogue I'm going to follow up. The government has not concluded on a further process of ensuring a future treatment capacity for hazardous waste, nor can I say anything more now when a decision will be taken. What I can say is that the matter is of high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1237	I had hoped that the pleasant atmosphere from the previous round of questions could be included in this, but for the time being I think the answer is a little too defensive for that. As the Council of State has seen in the hearing opinions, it is not long until 2024. For the actors, this is a very short time, and waste Norway writes among others. in its consultation response to the expert committee that it could affect waste collection from almost all households and businesses across the country in a short time if an alternative to Lang Island is not available. It must be in place in good time before the Lang Island is full, because the actors depend on knowing where to deliver the waste. I have to say it is worrying if the government has not yet decided whether to take responsibility for finding the option or leave it to the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1242	It is true that it is a short time to 2024, and that is why – as I said in my answer – this matter has such a high priority in my department, and we are working hard on how to follow it up. So the Environment Directorate has got a job that we're about to get a response to. Then I realize that there are many who are impatient to get a final clarification, both when it comes to whether the government should take a role, and in that case what role it should be. The expert selection has given us a very good basis for the further process, both through different solutions to reduce the amount of hazardous waste, which I believe is some of the things that should be a target, and by pointing to different sites that could be worth taking advantage of one should expand its capacity and continue it after 2024. As I said, we are working on this now with a high priority, but unfortunately I cannot today give the representative Hansen a final answer to what the solution is. It'll come when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1251	I thank you for the process. Can the Council of State give any indication as to whether, if, as he said, the dialogue with industrial players is not pointing towards a solution within a reasonable time, he will take responsibility for finding a solution? We all know that the landfill of hazardous waste triggers little enthusiasm and a lot of resistance, and here you might have to have a government that takes that responsibility, and you might not get a solution like a local cheering for. But we must have a landfill for hazardous waste. I would like to remind you that there is also a decommissioning of the plant in Halden, which also requires a waste site. So here I think the government has to prepare to take responsibility for finding a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1258	Today we have a landfill for hazardous waste, and that is the operation of private operators. When it comes to whether to take a role and go about using a government plan, as it has been suggested in Porsground, or go to other places, there is part of this process with different things to consider. But there's a lot of different ways to go about the goal here, I think. The selection of experts has pointed to a number of different ways in which they can think, both in terms of the reduction of waste volumes and the different locations, and they also point to the need for intermediate solutions. So what I can say is that all this is being evaluated, and what has been important both for my predecessor and for me, is that we should get all the facts on the table, and everything should be carefully assessed – not least because there is a very strong view in this case, and I believe it is important for the legitimacy of a possible decision finally that all the cards have been turned around. That's what we're working on right now, and I'm sure we're going to give answers in good enough time for everyone to settle down on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1267	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-26.ana.ud57e1281	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
