ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e28	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from 29 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Olav Urbø is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e48	The Vara representative Olav Urbø is now taking the seat. The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e55	On behalf of the representatives of Åsunn Lyngedal, Cecilie Teresa Myrseth, Terje Aasland and myself, I will put forward a proposal to stop the sale of our common Norwegian forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e60	The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e65	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Ingvild Kjerkol, Tellef Inge Mørland, Tore Hagebakken, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I would like to propose a contingency plan for senior care staff and measures to prevent dementia.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e70	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e86	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Bent Höie and Frank Bakke-Jensen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e93	My question goes to Minister of Health Bent Höie. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on having regained responsibility for the entire health policy. Unfortunately, public health policy as well as old-age policy are probably just where State Council Höie left it two years ago, in a pile of lost opportunities, but now the responsibility for the sickest elderly with more illnesses and many health problems is clearly placed. Unfortunately, older people have been a neglected priority from the right parties, and in the autumn we could read a series of articles in the VG where they revealed major shortcomings – unfortunately. There were unworthy conditions, insecurity and failure, and very ill elderly people were transported home from the hospital to their home municipality at night. The Health Minister told the VG that the practice of driving elderly, sick patients home at night would stop immediately. However, he did not do more than give an interview about it. The professionals in the hospitals, in the ambulances and in the home communities are still in a completely unreasonable bickering, where the Minister of Health punishes, while their ability to help patients does not improve. A chronic underfunded hospital budget where new cost cuts are to be made and the most demanding municipal economy of 15 years does not help the working environment of these skilled professionals. What will the Minister of Health do for the sick elderly patients in the country? Will he now pull the emergency brake for the early discharge and the reduction of sickle cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e106	We are doing a good job of raising the quality of care services in the municipalities. It happens in a number of areas. The representative’s description of the government’s efforts in this area is not correct – far from it. Firstly, one of the most important aspects of quality, not least the competence of employees, is that they have the professional safety that is important in dealing with older people with many and complex diseases. That is why we are now in the middle of Competence Plan 2020, where over 80 000 of our employees in this service in the municipality have received basic, continuing training. From 1 January of this year, we will establish the health communities between municipalities and hospitals, which will ensure that municipalities and hospitals cooperate on how to provide coherent and good services to this group. The government has signed an agreement with KS where we prioritise four patient groups in this work. The group of representatives is one of those groups. We are now in the implementation of the quality reform Life throughout our lives, which addresses the areas where our sick elderly people have very often felt that they are failing in the municipalities. It's about having a meaningful everyday life, about activity and content in everyday life, and about avoiding solitude. It's about experiencing coherent health care, it's about good food experiences. All of this now lies in the quality reform Life throughout our lives, as we experience that there is great enthusiasm around the work in Kommune-Norway, precisely because those who work in this service feel that a quality reform has finally come about for the care of the elderly in Norway that is about their working day and about the challenges they experience in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e113	The Council of State description is in stark contrast with the reports described by employees in the service. VG found that in 2018 at least 1,540 trips of elderly sick people over 74 years of age were carried out from hospitals between hours. 22 o'clock and 2 o'clock 07, and confronted with this black Council of State that it has been clearly informed to the directors of health care companies that ‘night transport is not to occur unless the patient wants it himself, or there are very special conditions that warrant it’. So VG still reveals before Christmas that the extensive transport of old, sick patients continues. There have been at least 380 trips with patients in the same category who have left the hospital between hours. 22 o'clock and 2 o'clock 07 in the last six months. So what kind of clear message and better framework for employees is what the Minister for Health has contributed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e122	I have done that in the mission document that was given to the health regions about a week and a half ago. It is now quite clear that this should not occur. It is simply unacceptable that elderly patients, such as women, should be treated with caution. have been involved in an investigation, have been laid in the evening, may receive sleeping medication and then be awakened in the middle of the night to be transported to a nursing home which, of course, is not manned for and prepared to receive sick patients in the middle of the night. That is why I have said that this should end. It's a very bad attitude towards the elderly patients, it's a bad health policy, and it's poor quality for the elderly. There are probably many complex reasons why this happens, but there are no good reasons for this, and there is no need to do this either. My requirement for health care establishments is that they build up capacity during the day, so that those who are going home are driven home at daytime under arranged conditions and not at night. So this is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e129	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e134	I do not think this is due to bad attitudes. I think it's because of the need of the skilled professionals who don't have the right things to help themselves with. It's also related to what we're measuring and premiuming in hospitals. When the Minister of Health chooses to focus on the first meeting of the hospitals, what the Council of State calls health queues, the lay time is also assessed on that basis. In Oslo, we now have research that shows that if hospitals print out too early because target management requires it, the total lag time for these sick elderly actually gets longer. Isn't it a very biased target management, and isn't it to the detriment of patients, to the benefit of them? Is it not important that the Council of State makes sure that shorter lay time applies to the entire patient cycle, that older sick people do not become throw-offs between their hospital and their home municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e143	I fully agree that it is necessary to have a very critical look at the reform introduced by the Workers' Party in this area, the interaction reform, with the very clear financial management that the Workers' Party then introduced, with the obligation to pay for patients who are ready to print. But we can't remove it without having something that works instead of it. Therefore, I have been very clear that when we now establish the health communities, when we get more committed cooperation between the municipalities and hospitals, when it's up and working, yes, then we can remove the employee's counterpoints and funding systems in this area, so that it's the cooperation around the individual patient that remains the most important. If we remove that tool without being sure that the health communities are up and going, we may be at risk of elderly patients staying unnecessary for a long time in hospitals, and this has serious consequences for them. When older patients today still experience hospitalisation and antibiotic treatment that they could receive in the municipality, it weakens their ability to master their own life, and it lowers the threshold for going to hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e148	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e153	State Council Bent Höie holds the same posts on the cooperation reform today, after seven years in the post office, as he did when he was in opposition in 2010. I don't think that's taking responsibility. This is also about the hospital of the future. In the Churches, there are now two patients in one room because you don't have enough room. In Eastfold, offices are used for waiting rooms in psychiatry. How will the Council of State ensure that there is enough bed capacity in the hospitals for which he is responsible – in Helgeland, in Finnmark, in More and Romesdal, where he has started construction projects? He is the one who is funding the hospital budgets now, and what the professionals report is that the framework is not in place for this seamless, good health care, which takes care of the elderly with more illnesses. They know that the number of years to come is increasing, but the plans of Minister of Health Bent Höie show no sign of any improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e161	That's not right: the two hospitals that the representative pulled out were both planned under the Workers' Party. They were correctly opened under me, but they were planned under the Health Ministers of the Workers' Party. We took the experience from it. That is why we have established the national company Hospital Building HF, which just ensures that we do not build hospitals in Norway as we did before – every time as if we did it for the first time – and do not transfer the experience from one building project to another, both the positive experience and the negative experience. Based on the experience with the construction in Østfold, which the representative draws out, and which the Workers' Party got started, Health South-East has now changed its requirements to cover the hospitals, precisely because one saw that the hospital was built too little. It has consequences for the new hospitals like a builder. The National Health and Hospital Plan also provides guidance to take account of developments both in the age structure of the population and in the development of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e170	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e175	The working environment of our professionals is about both construction and labour pressure. I think it's a poor comfort to the skilled professionals, who experience a lot of work pressure and that they're unable to help patients, that the Council of State has set up a new state enterprise. I think that's a poor comfort for both employees and patients. We now have a study from Oslo that shows that there is a link between experienced work environment in hospitals among professionals and mortality. It is concluded that after the first week of the hospitalisation, the burden of work and management exposure are related to mortality. This is supported by large surveys. The workload affects how patients are treated and whether they survive or not. Now we'll be in a situation where we need 18 000 health professionals and a total of 28 000 nurses in 15 years. There are neither study places nor hospital budgets and municipal budgets to address. So how are you going to solve the workload for these?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e184	The fact that there is a link between health, environment and safety for employees and patient safety has been an important topic for me over several years. That is one of the reasons why we are now conducting an annual survey of all employees in our hospitals called ForImprovement. This study has been prepared together with the trusted and professional organisations. The aim of this study is precisely to identify the relationship between health, environment and safety for employees and patient safety, for it is together that constitutes the culture of patient safety. That means that we now have an overview of this not only in each health region, not just in each hospital, but in each hospital department. In addition to the fact that we now have evidence of this, which we get every year, we have put in place a quality regulation that requires management at all levels of our healthcare to review this survey and start improving every year based on these results. It's just to address the challenges that the representative here is addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e191	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e196	The hospital economy in Norway is under strong pressure. It is cut in readiness, in beds and in other operations to afford the necessary investment. In this situation, the change of operator in the air ambulance service and in Babcock’s lack of ability to fulfill the contract has given a significant extra tax to hospitals because the government has decided that it is the regional health providers who have to pay the bill. Now it has been found that the Air Ambulance Service HF has requested a curtailment to Babcock. My simple question is whether Babcock has fulfilled the requirement for curtailment, and how much the curtailment in that case has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e203	The fact that there is a demand for curtailment to Babcock is not something that has been achieved, I have said to the Stortinget continuously as long as this discussion has taken place, not least in response to a number of questions from the representative earlier. It's quite obvious, because this is regulated in the contract. When Babcock doesn't deliver under contract, it gets an economic impact, and it's been known all the way. So it's like, in the situation you've been in, a non-priority work on these calculations along the way. They are now getting ready, and the first demands were sent just before Christmas. They will of course be followed up, and Babcock will have to pay or get a discount according to a lack of delivery. It's part of the contract that is of course being followed up. The representative presents the costs of the additional measures decided by the government to be in North Norway during the winter, regardless of whether Babcock delivers or not. There they will initially be covered by the four health regions, and then the government will return to it in the revised national budget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e214	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e219	Now, the Council of State has refused to deal with the Bigholding about the economic consequences of the situation in the air ambulance service, and I think the foundation is sylt thin – that he doesn't have time, that he has to give priority to other things. After graduation in January, he cannot tell us what the bill will be. I also find it strange that he does not now know if there will be an abbreviation, if Babcock should meet the requirement. The question I thought the Council of State could now do well is what the additional costs have been from 1 July 2019 to 1 January 2020, and what this is estimated to cost in the first half of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e226	I have repeatedly, as I said, the representative replied that it would be an abbreviation. Now the representative tries again to doubt it, but I just want to repeat: it's going to be a abbreviation. This is regulated in the contract, so the representative can take it easy, and I have also informed Stortinget about several times. So the representative is extremely concerned about getting the amounts. These amounts are not clear yet, because there is a calculation work going on here. However, the representative does not have to be afraid that the requirements will not be imposed and that the curtailment will not be implemented. With regard to the costs of the extra measures to be taken during winter, they are not clear yet, simply because not all contracts have been concluded. So you can't go out with any money either. But it will not be the case that the hospitals in North Norway will pay for the extra preparedness, which the representative has tried several times to give the impression in the media, it is the four health regions that will be jointly and severally dealing with it in the first place. That means it's Health South-East that will take the biggest bill at the beginning. Then the government comes back to it in the revised budget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e235	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e241	I want to bring up the last representative Kjerkol referred to, and that's the work pressure. There's a crew crisis in the hospitals in Norway. The National Audit Office’s report sets the level of criticism at ‘serious’. 40 pst. of the clinical units have tried without success to recruit new staff in the last three months. Only half of the clinical units have conducted a systematic evaluation of the basic manning. The National Audit Office points out that there are not enough places of practice and that there are not enough educational positions. What does Höie do with the manning crisis in Norway now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e248	What the representative here is addressing is an important and very serious matter, as the National Audit Office's report also shows. That is why the Riksrevision report is part of my mission to the health regions for this year, where I ask them to follow up the findings of the report and initiate actions. It is also one of the main themes of the National Health and Sickness Plan that the Storting is currently undergoing treatment, where a separate main part is about staffing and competence. As the National Audit Office points out, it is necessary for health regions and health businesses to be better equipped to have concrete plans for their own staff needs and to take action to ensure that they have good plans, not only for recruiting new staff, but also – and not least – to maintain and further develop their staff. I expect our hospitals, which are major knowledge establishments, to have plans for the individual employee and how to develop themselves professionally. This is now part of the requirements of the 2020 mission document.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e255	Nicholas Wilkinson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e260	Höie has been Minister of Health for six years. The crew crisis is not a new problem, it's old news. Why has the Minister of Health not done until what he now says he will do, send letters to the hospitals? Why hasn't the Minister of Health done it before?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e265	I have, of course, done something in this area before. These include: In the previous national health and health plan, we asked for national models to be made for the estimation of needs. The figures to which the representative refers, and also to which the representative Mr Kjerkol referred, are figures that I have ordered and asked for, precisely because we have to be prepared for the developments that are coming. If, as Minister of Health, I thought that because I had been Minister of Health for six years, everything was very well in healthcare, I would have found little inspiration in this job further. There are still major challenges that we need to solve, and we have to look for new tools to ensure that we have a sustainable healthcare service in the future. That with competence and staffing will be essential for it. That is why if the representative looks at my hospital speech this year, it is precisely this that is the main themes throughout there, because this area is incredibly important in the future. Then everyone has to take over that this we won't be able to solve just by increasing the manning. We also have to find new ways of working.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e274	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e279	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. It's nice to be on this side of the hall. Last November the Minister of Defence received a request from the French and Malian authorities to contribute to a multinational force in Mali. According to the Minister of Defence, the government is assessing how to respond to the request. In the Chief of Defense's professional-military council, the Chief of Defence states that Norway must take greater responsibility for its own security in our own neighbourhoods. Norway is NATO in the north. It means increased expenditure. At the same time, the defence's large acquisitions and unfavourable exchange rates will increasingly require the defence budget. It means increased expenditure. That means that it has to be given priority. The Minister of Defence has been in favour of Norway providing our special forces to fight down Islamist terrorists in the former colonies of France in Africa. We know that our special forces are among the best in NATO, but the mission is very dangerous. Several hundred soldiers and rebels have been killed in recent years, including many French soldiers. Personally, I am not willing to endanger the lives of Norwegian soldiers in the fight against African Islamists. France has been doing this war for more than 35 years, and the atmosphere is today more anti-French than ever before. France is not only able to win a war where the opponents cannot be defined. Therefore, France wants to involve several countries in its endless war in Africa. It raises a number of political, economic and practical issues. I would therefore like to reply to the following: Can the Minister of Defense clarify where the conflict line in Sahel is going? Can the Minister of Defence inform the Storting about the mandate for such an operation and how to define when the job is done? Can the Minister of Defence inform the Storting about the existence of an exit strategy? Can the Minister of Defence inform the Storting about how Norway will solve logistics, language and culture challenges? And then I want to answer whether the Ministry of Defence has calculated the cost of such an operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e290	Then State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen will have the opportunity to answer all these questions, and the speaking time is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e295	I have to open it with saying that it was nice to see the representative Tybring-Gjede on that side, and I like this side very well. This is a very good question. Norwegian defence and Norway’s efforts with allies to create stability in our neighbourhoods are an important part of the defence strategy. It is an important part of our foreign policy, and it is an important part of our defence and security policy. We have received an enquiry from France and Mali to contribute to an operation to ensure better stability down there. It shall enable the Malian authorities to govern the country, it shall enable the Malian security and defence forces to do the job they have been trained to do, in an increasingly challenging area, including: by the forces and elements of ISIL, which have now moved south in Africa after being territorially combated in Iraq and Syria. It's not right, as the representative says, that I've taken a positive view of it. I have said that I have favoured the enquiry, and then I have said that we should make assessments in this way. That is, we are in contact with quite a number of nations about how the operation should be connected, and what kind of elements should be there. We have received a lot of answers, but we do not have an answer to everything. And then it has to be evaluated considering whether there will be an operation that it is possible to do. Will it be an operation that also serves the second engagement we have in the Sahel area? We have an entire strategy, just because this is a very complicated and difficult area. The representative will get answers to the long series of questions when we've decided what to do, and when we have more knowledge of this. But this is a dynamic process -- a lot of other nations are doing the same processes that we are doing now, and we get new answers on our table every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e308	I record that the Minister of Defence spent 1 minute and 30 seconds not answering the question, but repeating what I told the Minister of Defence. It's a little constructive. You've received an enquiry, and you're talking about the neighbourhoods. I am aware of that, but all the parties on the Stortinget – and I say all the parties on the Stortinget – have expressed scepticism for this operation, including the defence minister's own party. It can not be very difficult to answer this question when no one in Stortinget believes that this is a good idea in the first place. Then I'm not sure where the minister is going to have this discussion, whether it's going to be internal, or whether it's going to be with the head of defense. It's actually the Big Thing that determines this. The Minister of Defence would like to oppose the Storting, but this, of course, also has consequences for support for the mission. It is also interesting to know whether the Minister of Defence has thought a single thought about how to get out of a conflict. It's easy to get into a conflict, but how do you get out of it? In addition, the United States has said that Europe should invest more in the Middle East and do more there. Why in the world should the Minister of Defense do more in Sahel?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e324	When I first came to Stortinget, I got an elementary introduction into the different responsibilities, and this very thing – planning and making these assessments – is a responsibility of the government. Then, of course, we need to inform the whole of the Stortinget: we need to debate widely in the Stortinget and to inform widely in the Stortinget. In the case of an exit strategy, it may be as simple as setting a limit on the duration of such an exposure. But this is a comprehensive case: it's a comprehensive case where, as I say, we pick up information every day. It's a big deal, too, because it goes beyond the military itself. It is an operation that also moves into the humanitarian missions we have, the Sahel strategy, and is also affected by the situation in the Middle East, because there are clear lines between the Middle East and Sahel in this area. That's why I say, we're working on the matter, and we're going to inform Stortinget. We don't have any plans to decide something that the whole Biggest thing says we're not going to do, so it just doesn't work, but we're not ready to give those answers right now, just because we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e334	There will be follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e339	I thank the Minister of Defense for working on the matter, but the time is running out. The enquiry came in November, and now we are soon into the third month. Then you don't work very effectively if it's the goal, to give an answer. It may not be so demanding to get an answer, namely that you should not send strengths there. When you haven't even come up with a thought about an exit strategy and say it can be a time aspect. Yes, it's possible it's a time aspect, but then you've gotten rid of the enemy, or would someone new come down and do something – or do you think you've motivated the enemy to become even more active, which is probably the result? This is France's war. Norway is NATO in the north, and we are not part of France's war in the south.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e344	Of course, I can repeat some of what I said, but it is not necessary: we are working on the matter. So it's up to the government to make these assessments, and then it's up to the government to inform the Storting and apply for anchoring in the Storting for these matters. This is a complex image, which I think is quite irresponsible just to blow off. We're going to do the thorough job we're doing. We let the other allies, other nations involved in this, also do a thorough job, and then we see what the total picture is, and then we're going to come to a conclusion, or a setting, sometime. I'm not very busy sending people out on a weak decision-making basis. This is a case that is so complex that we're going to work a lot and for a long time with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e349	Anniken Huitfeldt - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e354	That there is great resistance to this contribution in the Right, was new to me, but that is well the way it is when you have had many internal meetings and perhaps disagreed with a previous government fraction. I want to give the Council of State the right idea that this is formally on the government's table, but in Norway we have had a different tradition than in very many other countries. There has been a wound in Danish politics that, with a few votes in the Parliament, soldiers were chosen to send to Iraq in 2003 – it was exhilarating – and it is very unfortunate for the soldiers who are leaving, that there is no wide lashing behind them. Now we have a minority government, and my question is quite clear: will the Council of State ensure that when we send Norwegian soldiers on foreign missions, it has a broad anchor in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e363	It is almost such that I am wondering if it is necessary to ask about it. It's a long tradition to do that, and we have no plans to gamble with that tradition. I was also quite clear in the answer I gave to the representative Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e368	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e373	During a meeting at the Evenes Air Station, it was strongly underlined that it was urgent to build an organisation with associated infrastructure to phase in the new surveillance flights, P8. Norway has no time to lose, it has been said, and it is not appropriate to let fly longer in the United States than absolutely necessary. The Government announced in Prop. 27 S for 2016-2017 that the delivery of the aircraft was planned in the period 2021-2022. It was expected that the publication of each flight would be placed in the period until the base of the Planes is calculated to be completed, would be the last week. But we're still waiting for a decision. It is known that the Air Force, based on operational considerations, has decided that Andøya Air Station should be used to phase in the new surveillance flights. That council is with the Chief of Defense. It is also claimed that the Chief of Defense is not satisfied with the recommendation from the Air Force, and that the matter is further postponed. Then the question of whether the decision of the head of defence is taken is on a professional or political basis. In the spontaneous Question Time on December 18th, the Council of State confirmed that he would follow the professional military recommendation from the Defence Department on this matter. Does the State Council believe that the Air Force has the best operational competence to assess each phase of the new P8 aircraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e380	This is also a strange way to tackle the problem, because the alternative would be that I signed the defense chief publicly, and I'm not going to do that. I have been very clear on questions from the representative of Navarsete that when it comes to where the P8 aircraft are to be stationed temporarily, I have no opinions, except that we are going to make that assessment when we get the recommendation from the head of defence. In the past, the questions were angled in such a way that you would think there was a prestige in my question of using Andeya or not, but no, it doesn't. If the defense recommends it, I don't put any prestige into it, but of course we're going to make assessments of the recommendation that comes. The Air Force has delivered it to the Chief of Defense, the Chief of Defense says it's in the Armed Forces, and they're handling it. Of course, I am waiting until the head of defence has delivered it to me before I make that assessment. Looking at the position of the head of defense in this, I think it should actually be unnecessary. I registered some posts from trustees on Andøya who could already tell that the head of defence had delivered it to political leadership. We can clarify this: it hasn't happened. It's in the Defence Staff now, they're going to deliver it to the Department when they're ready, and then we're going to make that assessment. As I have said before, for me, there is no record of this question. We need to find a good solution to get a capacity that's very important to us there in the north, in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e391	There is a lot of focus on the P8 monitoring aircraft and hangs on the Evenes, but it is important to remember that P8 is part of a complex system, where all individual elements have to interact to enable the MPA system to perform sharp tasks. One of these individual items is approved storage capacity and installation facilities for weapons and explosives. In view of military bases, I have seen such facilities. It's about large areas. I myself, a civilist, understand that such storage facilities are missing at Evene's flight station. Nevertheless, it is claimed that the needs have been met. It is difficult to understand that it is advisable to co-storage of different explosive types outside the Plane airstation and that it is advisable that sharp weapons designed to lower warships and submarines should be carried along civil highways and European roads from different mountain halls around Evenes. Can the State Council assure the Government that the storage, handling and transport of explosive link to the MPA activity has been taken into account in line with the guidelines of the Defence Ammunition Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e396	Evens has been planned as a QRA base since 2012. There has been a major effort to preserve ammunition – also to the F-35 facility that is coming. Yes, I can assure the representative Navarse that it will be maintained according to the rules, the law and the security standard that will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e402	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e407	It's safe to know, and we'll follow that closely. On December 18th last year, the Minister of Defense in Stortinget said I was pointing to a cost bar for the plane station of Evene that was not there. Now we see that the phase-in phase of P8 is delaying in time. You have not yet been given an explanation of where the hangar of P8 could be placed on Evenes. The storage of explosives and the problem of the lack of drainage system for the Evenes track show-off is also not done well for – and more elements in addition. All of this strongly indicates that the cost image and the time frame underlying it are no longer real. How much delay will the establishment of P8 surveillance aircraft on the Evenes host? And is the Council of State determined that costs will not increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e414	In terms of costs, they are at present SEK 4.48 billion. kr in total on Evenes. It's good within the cost framework, which is $4.97 billion. NOK – as we have informed Stortinget about earlier. We have also been open that the problem around the hangar position will give us some delay. That was also why we increased the governance framework somewhat in the project when we got the external quality assurance. But as I said, the reason we've been open about, and that's also what makes us think about where we can alternately accept the P8 when they get there. As a whole, the Evenes project is in good shape, and it is largely within the framework we have set – with the exception of the delay in time that we have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e419	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e424	The commercial has widened in child protection. Before working with the public with ideal foundations for the protection and care of vulnerable children. Now all is business secrets, and ideals are squandered out of large commercial companies that earn money on children who need help. VG has revealed that the three largest children's protection companies are all registered in tax havens. An unknown number of millions of dollars disappears from the service to help vulnerable children to build fortunes for an international financial elite. When one asks the ideal actors about how they're being squandered, they point to one thing in particular, and that's the fact that a single child is put on a tender, i.e. a single purchase of an institution space. Long, detailed descriptions of vulnerable single children are sent out to up to about 10 actors, who then have to live with this child. Then there will be rounds – who can cut the cost the most? In one case, they were ten dollars a day less in the food budget for the child that made a commercial actor used. The ideal actors believe this is a reprehensible way of treating children, they do not want to be involved, and in addition, only the largest commercial ones have the resources to have the kind of bidding bureaucracy rigged to accommodate single children, and thus win the commercial tenders. That is why I have to ask the Council of State whether he believes it is okay that an individual child is put on a tender with detailed descriptions in order to be offered by commercial companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e433	I don't think it's right that it's going on that way. I am concerned that children should get the best possible quality. Therefore, the rules have been arranged in such a way that non-profit actors – for whom the representative is involved and for which I fully share the commitment – contribute to diversity in the sector, contribute to better quality. So it's like we're steering by a government platform that says we're going to increase the proportion ideal to 40 pst. We've also given a clear lead to Bufdir, which is to prioritise ideal rather than commercial where it can be done. So I would also like to make it clear that with regard to the use of tax havens, there is something that violates what I would call the social contract – a paying tax in Norway, and one gets a number of services back on that basis. Therefore, it was probably a unanimous increase that led us to put down a public sample to just look at the cash flows, to see if there is a need for stronger regulation to avoid that kind of practice. But I would also like to point out that we are doing a good job of reviewing the use of private actors. It's because I have one goal for child protection, and it's that the kids who are vulnerable get it help and the quality they deserve. That's my starting point. That's why I see that private, commercial or ideals are important to give kids the best possible offer, on the same line as public offers are important. But we have to use the private ones correctly. This means that municipalities and the state must have good order skills, so that they buy the right services, and not least that they buy it at the right price. That's why we have a full review to see if there's something that should not be solved by private individuals, or what you can do to improve public competence to become better orderers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e442	I therefore refer to a very specific form of tender, namely that of an individual child on a tender. The majority voted with the Christian People's Party's votes well over a year ago, the SV's proposal that this practice should be reduced. The government was given a deadline: by 2019 the measures were to be put on the table. But the numbers and what we hear from the field, from the ideals, indicate that there will be no fewer children on offer. No, from the ideals, the impression is that the department does little to follow up this decision, and as of October 2019, the practice had increased. From 1 January 2019 to 1 October 2019, there were thus 116 000 days of stay connected to single purchases – that is 37 pst. of all days of residence in the protection of children. Can the Council of State guarantee that the practice of children in tenders has been reduced, as the Stortinget has decided, or will it be soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e449	As I pointed out in my post, the most important thing for me is that the kids get the best possible offer. Then we need the use of ideals, we need the use of private, we need the use of public. That diversity is important to take care of. So, as I said before, there are two particularly important measures here that I would like to point out. One is about the sample that looks at the cash flows in child protection. It will present its first interim report in March, which I look forward to getting and working on. As for the second measure, the review of the use of private goods, we are doing well, and I aim to ensure that it is sent out to the hearing during the spring. The measures we are taking to increase the use of ideals, which I pointed out – both the follow-up to the request decision and not least that Buffdir should use ideals where possible – will contribute not only to strengthening, I would say, the overall quality, but also the use of ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e456	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e461	Thanks for the answer, but it was not an answer to the question I asked. What I'm asking about relates to a rather specific form of use of child protection tenders. The ideals say – despite everything else done in terms of non-profits, which we in SV support – that this kind of single-child bid also helps to squander them out. We can see from the numbers we have from the period I mentioned in the previous post, that 80 pst. of the days of residence are linked to single purchases by commercial institutions. The ideals will not and cannot set up a very strict red tape in order to win these tenders they themselves consider it absolutely reprehensible to do so. It only has the difficult commercial occasion and perhaps morale to do. That is why I have to ask again whether this practice has been reduced, as the Storting has decided it should, or whether it will be reduced now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e468	As I said, we are in the process of reviewing the use of private actors. I aim to have it sent out to the hearing during the spring. As regards the more general use of private services related to welfare services, there is a separate sample that will look at it. I'm definitely sharing the same commitment. I have close dialogue with ideal actors, and my goal is that one should be able to use them more fully. These are vulnerable children. That is why I am extra busy that they release as many moves as possible, that they get a safe and good offer, and that they get competent help. That's why we're doing extremely much on this field right now. The follow-up to the issues raised by the representative of the Supreme Court is well under way. The first report from the welfare service committee comes in March, as I said, and we're sending out to the hearing the changes we think we'll make to private actors, during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e476	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e481	We are pleased that the interim report is coming, and I am pleased that the Storting decided to do that examination of the cash flow in the welfare, among other things. in the field of child protection. The size has also taken a different decision. It was too good over a year ago. The Christian People's Party secured a majority for a proposal from SV quite just before the Christian People's Party chose to enter the sitting government. The proposal was that the practice of single children on tenders should be reduced, and the government was asked to take action to do so by 2019. Now let's write January 2020. The message from the field is that this practice is not being reduced. On the contrary, increases are reported. It is reported that there is no hearing from the department regarding the follow-up. The size has allowed a time limit for reducing practices. No longer should this form be used to place children on the market. That's why I have to ask the Council of State once again, when will that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e488	As I have tried to say repeatedly, there are especially two important processes we are doing. I am pleased that the representative of the Supreme Court is looking forward to the welfare service committee submitting its first interim report. It becomes an important overarching material we can use in the entire welfare field, just to make the most of the money go to welfare services. Of course, there should be private law, which will help to increase diversity and quality and perhaps even more out of money to make quality the best possible. At the same time, we are in the process of reviewing how we use private actors. That is why I have said repeatedly that we aim to send this to the hearing during the spring. I expect that we will achieve the goal that is set to increase the use of ideal actors to 40 pst. It's, as we've discussed repeatedly, an ambitious goal, but it's also an important goal. Although we have that goal, the quality of children and children's best needs to be at the heart of our implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e497	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e502	In Norway today, many small heroes wake up. Every day they rise, take on the sack, full of despair over a difficult and incomprehensible reality in which they live. Every day it happens that those who do not receive sufficient help or receive incorrect help in the protection of the child, they have to carry their own bag. At the same time, the government fills up the sack of commercial players, often abroad, with community money. Bjerkholt writes in Today's Business Friday that the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate uses spin doctors to refresh this practice. The Heier campaign, the children themselves and the Children's Ombudsman say they need more wise adults in child protection. The Labour Party agrees that the government is not. Does the Council of State consider it an important priority and a proper priority to send millions of profits to commercial actors abroad rather than to spend this money on children in child protection in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e513	Thank you for just one important question. As I said to the representative of the Supreme Court, I believe that the use of tax havens in many ways is also contrary to the social contract. No, I don't think it's a good idea that money goes to tax havens. That's why I'm looking forward to having the sample that we've put down come up with different answers on how to limit it. I am concerned that the various measures should be properly appreciated, that more quality, more protection and care should be given to young people for money. That's why we put that sample down. But when it comes to the reality description, I disagree. Since 2013, or between 2013 and 2018, we have received 1,300 more annual works in the field of child protection. That's an increase of 27 pst. When you look at the last year, when you look at things that have come in, your capacity is strengthened. Then there are challenges in child protection. That is why we have focused a lot on increased staffing and not least on the level of competence. It's a historical commitment to competence, and I know it will mean a lot to those who have a demanding job of taking the right balances in difficult dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e522	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e527	I'm recording that this right-hand government thinks it's more important with a waiting-and-see situation. We also see that in other measures in the field of child protection. The Labour Party shall have inter alia: promoting a child protection reform, a comprehensive child protection reform that addresses many important issues in the area of child protection, where there are currently serious errors and shortcomings. But wait-and-see strategy so these kids get up every day and need help now – not in two years, not in five years. There are children who live in today's reality we want to help. Ideal actors have been a topic in this debate, and it is amazing that the Christian People's Party, which was actually involved in the decisions that the government is not now following, does not listen with slightly larger ears to the ideal actors who say that this is carrying the wrong place. Why don't the councils listen to their stories anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e534	If there's something I'm concerned about, it's strengthening child protection. My claim is that it's going to happen much more the next half-year and the two years I might be allowed to sit as a state council than in a very long time. It is because we are aware that there are major challenges in child protection. There are no challenges that have arisen just now, there have been long-term challenges, and employees are in difficult dilemmas. Therefore, the level of competence that is being undertaken, along with an increase in staffing, is one of the most important things we do. We're going to continue our efforts on funds, but we're also going to see if we're going to make even tougher demands on competence. We're going to implement a change in the Children's Protection Act this year, propose it to the Stortinget, and there's going to be a new Children's Protection Act next year. We have a full review of the institutional child protection, foster home, which is such an important part of caring for the young people who are perhaps the most vulnerable, and the child protection reform, which has so much focus on prevention, more responsibility for the municipalities. It will be implemented from 1 January 2022. So here's the work going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e539	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e544	It was in May 2018 that the Stortinget took the decision to increase the proportion of non-profit institutions serving households to 40 pst. Today, this part is 27 pst. But in the state budget for this year, there was no trace of this case, and ideal child protection was very surprising and is enormously disappointed. They call for signals and plans for further follow-up. In Question Time on 15 January, Prime Minister Solberg was challenged by this, and she replied very evasively. Unfortunately, I feel that the Council of State today is also not clear about what the government is doing. One refers to new listens, new reports. Not least, I'm disappointed that one as a government council does not distinguish between private ideals and private commercials. So the question is, what will the Council of State from the Christian People's Party do to increase the proportion of ideal child protection to 40 pst. of institution places and give a signal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e554	We are in full swing with the follow-up to that decision, and as the representative Toppe is in it, there is a decision that I also voted in favour of, precisely because I believe ideals provide both diversity and quality that child protection needs. So it's about that. thousands of institutions for the protection of children today. That means there are relatively few places we're talking about. What I'm concerned about is implementing a change where you're going to raise from 27 pst. until 40 pst. is that it must be done in a way that does not cause harm to children. It must not be that you are being moved from a private offer – or a public offer, for that matter – that works well just to be in a place driven by ideals. That's why we're fully involved in how this can be done in the best possible way. What I said earlier, too, is that the most important thing, perhaps, is the clear control signal that when Bufdir is going to give priority, they should give preference to ideals in front of commercials. My goal is that by 2025, as the Stortinget decided, we will be able to reach 40 pst. for non-profit institutions serving households.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e563	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e568	According to the NRK, the US Air Force has now established itself on the Norwegian island of Jan Mayen. According to the NRK, the Norwegian Hercules aircraft that could provide the Norwegian base on Jan Mayen are not available, among others. because of the mission they are taking part in the military operation in Mali. When Norway entered NATO in 1949, there was agreement to put important restrictions on the US military presence in Norway to calm the Soviet Union and avoid being dragged into a U.S.-Soviet conflict. Russia has rarely had reason to fear Norway militarily, so we have had a peaceful relationship with Russia for hundreds of years. But now the sitting government has let the United States into Norway with increasingly heavy shootings and even closer to the Russian border, and now it is a fear in Russia that the United States is using Norway to call in the country and also increase the tension against Russia. Three well-known scientists say in this case that American military aircraft on Jan Mayen can increase the tension with Russia. According to the Defence Manager, Norwegian participation in foreign operations has weakened Norway’s domestic preparedness. While the government is sending one in four transport planes to Mali in Africa, it is not possible to secure air supplies to a Norwegian base in Norway. This is a loss – there is both a greater risk of Norway being involved in conflict while over-consumption of Norwegian forces abroad weakens domestic preparedness. My question is: Has the government given up on providing a Norwegian base in Norway, and is it not in that case a failure statement for the government and for the Norwegian Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e579	We have to solve some things in this picture. So the MINUSMA operation we're participating in Mali is a UN operation where we've offered cargo planes on a rotational basis, we run a camp, and then we're down there for six months – now it's about. every two years – and flying with a Hercules. I assume that the Red opinion too can be a good contribution to humanitarian international solidarity. So it's like our Hercules planes, like a lot of other military capabilities, are a limited resource. We have therefore asked whether allied nations can be willing to fly to Jan Mayen if it should be necessary when we are out doing other missions. In recent years, Sweden, Denmark, Austria and France have assisted Norway in these tasks, and the United States has also agreed to support them if necessary. This is about transport aid. It's not about a military operation. It's not about sharp capacities. It's not like Norway has any plans to use Jan Mayen militarily. But it's an added value that we have allies that can perform such an operation for us if we need it, and there may be a whole range of scenarios that make us need it. There is no reason why individual flights to Jan Mayen by aircraft from allied countries to supply personnel on the island should affect the safety view in the north. That's – no, there's no reason for it to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e590	We can listen to what Tormod Heier of the Defence College says: "This shows that Norway is so weakly military that we no longer have the capacity to provide for our own crews." Senior researcher Andreas Østhagen says that getting to the United States Air Force on Jan Mayen is not a trick if you don't want to provoke Russia. When Washington increases its voltage level with Russia, there is an entire world sea away. We are close to this major act and are therefore interested in having the lowest possible level of conflict with our neighbour in the northeast. My question, which was not specifically answered, is whether it is true that the government has put the Norwegian defense in a position to supply this base itself, or whether there is some sort of wish from the government to actually give US Air Force access to Jan Mayen who can lie behind the decision to open up so that the Americans too can fly here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e595	It is completely wrong – if the representative had been willing to hear, I answered that question. To the researchers who believe something about this: I fundamentally disagree with Heier that this creates greater tension in the north. We're running an open line to our neighbor in the east. We've always done that, and it's been very successful. We're telling you why we're doing things. There is no reason to drag conspiracy theories into this hall in this matter. I have explained why we have asked for this kind of assistance. It's simply because we might be on other missions with our Hercules planes, planes we use for humanitarian missions, military missions and other types of missions. We have a very good capacity, but it's small, and sometimes we may need to ask our allies, our friends, if they can support us a little bit here. I think that's a very good thing. It can also be a very good thing in a humanitarian operation that several of the allies have learned to master these relationships. There is no reason for the tension to increase in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e602	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e607	I think maybe the Council of State mixes claims and arguments. He says that there is no reason for the tension to increase, but he does not come up with any reason or argument for this claim to be true. Just standing and repeating and repeating and repeating that there's no reason, there's no reason, there's no reason, there's no reason. It's repeating a claim without following up the claim with a justification. That is why I asked for a proper answer to the question. I don't think either Tormod Heier or Andreas Østhagen believe in conspiracy theories, but they point out what is not being refuted here, namely that this is increasing the tension and provocation against Russia, which I would say we don't have an interest in as a little neighbor to a great power that lies northeast of us. I would like an answer from the Council of State on why you haven't at least informed the Storting about the invitation to the United States to use this base on Jan Mayen and get anchored for it in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e612	This is a new case where the answer was given, but the representative did not want to hear. I said we're taking a very nice, traditional transparency line to Russia about our activity. There's transparency about why we're flying there, what we're doing there, and there's openness about when we're going to use these types of flights. There's nothing military about it. We are in our full right to do that -- we and our allies. There is no reason why Russia should think that this increases the tension, or that it should be provocative, simply because we do nothing more than what we say we do. There are no hidden motives behind it. That's the line we've been leading towards our neighbor in the east for decades. It's a very good line, and it's a line that's also being respected by the neighbor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e617	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e622	In individual areas, the development of defence in North Norway is moving in the right direction, for example: with regard to the establishment of Finnmark National Defence. The previous questioner will wind up the entire fighter flight chain; I believe that the fighter aircraft contribute to increased defence capabilities, especially in the north. However, it is striking how this right-wing government, even after the new security policy situation in 2014, has insisted on the implementation of obvious weaknesses in Norwegian defence in North Norway. The right-wing government would lay down the usable coaster command outside of Harstad, and the right-wing government insists on deflecting the Army's standing second battalion in the inner Troms, on Skjold. In general, the army has been given very little priority by the right-wing government. Important road choices and investments for the Army have been postponed again and again. That the Army has now been deprived of its own helicopter in North Norway, I believe is unwise defence policy. It is also clear from the Chief of Defense's professional-military council. But it is also an unwise response policy, and it weakens the security of people in Northern Norway. It's also a violation of the government's promises. In the current long-term plan, the government concluded that any move of the Army helicopter on Bardufoss would only be made when the coastguard helicopters and the rescue helicopters were in place at Bardufoss. Coast Guard helicopters are not in place on Bardufoss, and the government recently published another breach of binding agreements entered into in the Stortinget: rescue helicopters shall not be stationed on Bardufoss anyway. In today's VG, we can read that the Right Defence Commissioner is now taking a settlement with the entire movement of Army Bell helicopters from North Norway. The special forces need another helicopter, he says. My question is, was the entire move of the Army Bell helicopter failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e632	It was a long post of deserved praise to the government in some areas – thank you – and then it’s undeserved punishment to the government in other areas – I don’t thank you for that. The debate on the helicopter is complex, because it is about preparedness for the police, it is about preparedness for health, and it is about preparedness for defence. The priority of the helicopter to the special forces is a proper priority given that the helicopter is a limited resource. So we stand for that. Then I record that the Harek Riveres believe that we have to follow the chief of defence's professional military advice in the case of new helicopters to the special forces. We're going to present the long-term plan for the Storting in the spring, and we're going to give an answer to those priorities there. So I'm not commenting on that any more. With regard to rescue helicopters, there is an operational need, an operational justification behind the decision to have rescue helicopters in Tromsø and not on Bardufoss. Rescue helicopters are used for mountain, tourist, shipwrecked and can be used for fires around. The capacities are established in Tromsø, so the police chief and the Chief Emergency Officer of the County have said that the best location is in Tromsø. You save time. They've estimated that you save 20 minutes per mission by the helicopter being stationed at those capacities, and they probably have good numbers on which types of capacities it is. That's why I think it was a right decision, also in terms of location, to place rescue helicopters in Tromsø. Those with responsibility for preparedness ask for it, and then it's a good idea to do it. It's a limited resource, and we're now using a lot of energy to figure out how to solve the helicopter situation even further in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e643	Can't just the Minister of Defense admit that this was wrong? Moving nine Bell helicopters south at the same time as the Right Defence Commissioner says that the Bell helicopters are not good for the Special Forces, you have to admit that there has been no wise decision. We've seen when the Bell helicopters are moved, that there's a obvious need for them – they need border guards, they need them because the Army is moving and going to have more locations, among other things. is established in Finnmark. And the head of defense says, in violation of what the Right Council has said, that the Army needs helicopters. Can't the Minister of Defence just be so honest and say that this was a wrong decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e648	No, but the Minister of Defense can be so honest that he's trying to clean up what's been said. Firstly, and it will be clear from the statements made by the High Representative for Defence, Harek Elvenes, helicopters are given priority to the Special Forces. There is also a counter-terrorism capacity to be built up, which is called back to the Gørv report after July 22. We're weak on that kind of vulnerability in a hybrid image, a slightly different image than where we can put an army, or a mechanized army battalion. The Chief of Defence was also clear on that priority. If you read the professional military council, he spoke about helicopters to the special forces first and then helicopters to the Army. So there is no sense in making any concessions that it was wrong. It's a proper priority all the time helicopters are a limited resource. When the security image is the way it is now, and the threat image is the way it is now, it is important that we establish that capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e657	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e662	It's the Army garrison in South Varanger that makes border guards against Russia. Today, this garrison hires private helicopters for transport between the different border guard posts. But in the last few months, one of the Army Bell helicopters has been stationed at the Kirkenes just at the garrison headquarters. There has been a very useful resource in preparedness, but also for border guards, and the crisis in the air ambulance in North Norway is well known. The defense's Bell helicopters have been stationed in the churches for months, and this quad has helped save lives. The plan is now extended until 15 April. Is the Minister of Defence willing to conclude that the system of his own defence helicopter in the Kirkenes is being carried out on a permanent basis after 15 April?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e669	The representative also knows that in parts of this debate, I am on a swinging basis, all the time I have problems with stability when it comes to speaking about those capacities. But I can speak for the defence, the defence needs: there is no problem for the garrison in South Varanger to use civil capabilities for most of what they do, when they move personnel and cargo between border stations. Whether that quad is green or red, don't do anything. We also have a number of missions in Defense that we can cover with civil capabilities. That's why we've concluded that framework agreement with civil helicopter capabilities, just because much of what we're doing might as well be covered with civilians. So, as I started by saying, helicopter is a limited capacity. We have done a lot to increase capacity within the different fields, but as I said, this is a problem that takes time. In conclusion, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Defence and also the High Representative of the Republic of Elvenes, the Defence Commissioner of the Right, give priority to the special forces in the case of helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e680	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e685	The defence Bell helicopters have been a force for preparedness in East Finland, and there have been events that have saved lives, as Huitfeldt's representative said. What's interesting for us in the Workers' Party is to know if the government wants to look at the possibility of helicopter capacity on a permanent basis in East Finland, a possible multi-use model, and whether you're willing to investigate it. Now the assignment goes to April 15. The working party believes that it should be at least until the summer – and preferably have an investigation if possible. As the Council of State may not be in a hurry, I would like to address the follow-up question to the Minister of Health, who is sitting in the Chamber without action. I'm sure he can answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e692	That was a good solution. We have now given a mission to the health regions to assess the need for a permanent helicopter in Kirkenes to solve the health tasks. They are also in the assignment given, asked to see if there are alternatives to using the Defense helicopter in the Kirkenes until April 15. That means that if, from a health point of view, there is another reasonable alternative than using the Defense Helid, we will terminate the Defense Helid in Kirkenes and replace it with another helicopter. The background for this is revealed in my statement to the Stortinget. It's about the needs of the Defense for the Helicopter, but also the increased vulnerability of the police by having one of the Defense Helicopters in the Church. On the other hand, the representative’s question, namely the need for – and whether or not to have multi-use helicopters, in the Kirkenes, is not addressed by the government at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e701	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e706	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Defense. Then one changed the 339 quadrant and sent helicopter to the south, removing one also the assistance one has been able to provide civil aviation, i.e. police and health. On the police side, there is now a privately hired plane to replace. When it was announced, there was a total of 250 million. SEK per year, i.e. 62 million. kr per year for one aeroplane. It costs 18 Bell helicopters – 250 million. kr per year. It's a totally insane increase in costs, and of course a failure in preparedness. Why would this government privatize when costs increase so enormously?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e714	That's a very good question. At the bottom is the identified need for the special forces to exercise a counter-terrorism capacity. The security and threat picture is completely different now than it was not very many years ago. We depend on being able to use the security forces on more hybrid threat images. In order for them to be able to do it effectively to move, they're dependent on helicopter capacity, which is a limited capacity, but we've prioritised Bell 412 to that capacity. And then there's a lot of problems at the bottom. Preparedness is expensive. It is also not free to have Bell 412 on standby for the police in the north, but the primary argument and the primary reason for doing so is that a threat in the form of hybrid threats, terrorist threats, has been identified and is sought to establish a capacity to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e721	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e735	There will be a change in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The change was as follows: Question 3, from the representative Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e747	I would first like to congratulate the Council of State on a new department. My question is the following: ‘Suture and smiley mapping of several thousand schoolchildren has resulted in both teachers and parents responding. Experts on children’s mental health call the monitoring tool ‘structural bullying’ and consider it to be ‘a form of child abuse’, cf. The daily newspaper on 23 January, and more people believe the questions are offensive. Will the Council of State put an end to such controversial monitoring of school and kindergarten children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e756	First, thank you for the congratulations. I am pleased to cooperate with Stortinget in this area as well, as I think it is extremely important that we in the government are able to do a good job. The study from the Inland College, referred to in the question from the representative Toppe, is an own-initiative study carried out by school owners and kindergarten owners. It is within the local space of action to carry out various school and kindergarten studies as long as school owners and kindergarten owners relate to the legal framework. This may, for example: deals with privacy and professional secrecy rules. I expect school owners and kindergarten owners to carefully assess different dilemmas and issues related to such surveys. In general, I believe it is important that we have good knowledge of how the youngest children experience school life. We need to know if they're doing well, and whether they're doing well with friends and adults. Today we have the student survey, where students from the 5th stage to Vg3 can get their opinion on well-being and learning environment. This study is an important tool for developing the learning environment in each school. But there is no equivalent study for the very youngest children. According to the Granavolden platform, the government wants to assess how the youngest children should also be able to provide feedback on their own school days. We will therefore investigate how we can possibly conduct an annual study on well-being and the learning environment for 1–4. steps. Such a study shall ensure participation and that the votes of the youngest students are heard. However, as the articles in the Newspaper show, it is more difficult to conduct a survey for the youngest students than for older students, who read and write well. It is therefore important that we have a good professional debate on how to obtain reliable information about the well-being and learning of younger children, without jeopardising the privacy and integrity of children. For example, the students must: know what to decide when they choose to participate in such studies, and they must be given the opportunity to express their opinion in a maritime manner. They must also be able to reserve themselves against participating, and they must know what the studies will be used for. It is far too early to say how a study for 1–4. While the Ministry of Knowledge has asked the Directorate of Education to address methodological, legal and ethical issues related to carrying out such a study among the youngest. That investigation I think we're going to make up for the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e771	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State points out that there are school owners and kindergarten owners who themselves decide whether to use this screening tool, but I think there is a cause for concern when as many as 500,000–600 000 children in Norway and Denmark have been mapped out with this tool, and one now receives very clear advice from both the ethical advice of the Teacher Prophecy and children’s psychiatrists that questions are posed in a way that can injure children and that can lead to the child’s self-esteem being developed in a negative direction. I'd like to ask: What does the Council of State even want to do about this, and what advice will it give, even if there is a local decision on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e778	Municipalities are not free to identify what they want from surveys and registrations. We have a clear law regarding both privacy and how we treat children in this country. But it is also important that we are involved in developing good methods for children to be allowed to tell about their own everyday lives. I've spent a lot of my life implementing the Children's Convention and making children's opinions come up. We allow children to have an influence on major decisions in their lives, such as: to be able to influence which of the parents you are going to live with after a divorce. In Norway, we have raised the child to be a citizen and an individual with their own opinions in a very fundamental way over the last hundred years. We've been at the forefront of child law. I think it's important to develop models for this, and then we might have to try out and evaluate ourselves afterwards and see what went well and what went bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e785	State councils point out on one side that there are school owners and kindergarten owners who use this, while one cannot do it on its own. My wish is that the Council of State is clear and helps to put a stop to this kind of mapping. I totally agree that one has to be able to find methods that can give us answers about how the smallest kids have it in the school and kindergarten, but not at all in this way, as I think is quite shocking. I think it is strange that it has been possible to conduct itself for so long, and that it has been a matter only when parents have reacted and have been doing something remarkable about what is actually happening. I hope that the new Council of State will do what it can to put an end to this kind of screening in Norway, and that we will get a better monitoring of children, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e790	That is precisely why we have launched the investigation – which I hope is ready for the autumn – on new models to enable children to respond. We have e.g. have been asked by the Stortinget to evaluate the six-year reform. Then we need the kids to tell us what's good and bad in their school days. Then we have to find good methods to do it. Here are some who have tried a model – I am open that there are clear improvement points in the models that have been tested. I also hope that we will be able to create models that make children understand what they're into, where they understand the assumptions, where their privacy is protected, and where adults around them also know what they're going to contribute to the evaluations that we have. But children should be allowed to say what they mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e798	‘The emergency situation in the Gudbrandsdalen is the result of a service under crazy economic pressure’, says Trustee of Delta to the Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen on 22 January 2020. ‘Jon’ says in the newspaper Valdres on 21 January 2020: ‘Awake. [[37]] Daily places are needed as never before to reduce daily places in psychiatry. How far can ‘efficient resource use’ go, as the Council of State points out in the Hospital Valley in 2020, before harming health services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e805	In particular, the government has arranged for significant numbers of patients to be assisted in hospitals. We increase the quality of the treatment and get the waiting times down. The hospital economy has been an important focus of the government, and therefore hospitals have been prioritised in each state budget we have submitted since 2013. In the 2020 budget, hospitals have been strengthened by 1.58 billion. kr. This shows that we still prioritise the hospitals. But it is absolutely right that our health services face more and more challenges that put pressure on the way we do the job, and on those who work in hospitals. The population is increasing, especially in the older age groups. There is a growing need for specialist health services. The possibilities of increased resources for healthcare are also, of course, affected by the general situation in which an ageing population, and not least in the future, reduced revenues from what is today our main industry, the oil industry, will mean that we have to be very careful about how we prioritise resources in the future everywhere in Norway. If we are to ensure a sustainable health service, we need to make the best use of the skills of our employees, make the most of the opportunities offered by technology and new technologies, and, not least, make better use of the opportunities offered by organising our tasks. This also applies to healthcare. With this, it is necessary that hospitals always look at the way a driver operates his services. It is important that when you do it, you do it in good dialogue with professionals, with municipalities and not least with patient and user organisations. I assume that any changes in patient provision occur, of course, within the framework of a care-care-responsibilities and that the quality of patient provision is maintained. The representative Knutsdatter Strand uses daily places in psychiatry as an example of health care being under financial pressure and that it offers a lower range of services. Overall, mental health treatment capacity has increased. Several get help, and the waiting times go down. The government, through its national health and hospital plan, has given a mandate to analyse the future needs of the population for mental health services. It must also include the need for daily places. Regarding the ambulance service in Gudbrandsdalen, I refer you to my written answer to question 715. The answer shows that the Hospital Inland has a well-developed ambulance service. Preparedness is maintained and most of the assignments are resolved within the recommended response time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e820	NRK writes this week about the situation in Kalne's hospital. Company selected to report: ‘The employment situation in the psychiatric sector is particularly demanding for employees. A lot of people stop, they can't do it anymore. People go about crying home from work." Governments are concerned with the organisation and improvement of supply. Then it is interesting that at the Hospital Østfold is for the first time psychiatric and somatic, but the number of beds in psychiatry is reduced from 200 to 90. In recent years, Kalnes has occupied a psychiatric ward of 103 pst. – and only in January 110 pst. Overcoating is normal, says the functioning clinic manager for mental health protection at the hospital to the NRK. This is a newly built hospital to respond to health challenges for a long time in the future. How does the Council of State view planning and efficiency requirements in this area in view of the disease picture and the needs of the inhabitants of Eastfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e838	The hospital in Østfold was planned during the Workers' Party, when they were in the Ministry of Health, but the experience of the job that was done then, we have taken with us. This is why, among other things: Health South-East is now reducing the expected coating percentage of the new construction projects to be planned in the future, based on experience. As I said, we have now started a work to see what is the future need for daily places in mental health. But also in mental health, a problem can be solved in new and better ways for patients. A very good example of this is the way one now treats patients with coercive disorders. These are patients who were previously inpatients over a long period of time, with quite varying results, but where Norway has developed a new treatment method, the four-day method, which now considerably increases the number of these patients in outpatient treatment and improved results.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e843	The strengthening of the Council of State is talking about, and the development of services is not the same experience for patients and employees in the first line, as the strong stories in the newspapers tell us. Increased treatment capacity in mental health protection must also be seen in relation to bed places, such as: “Jon” tells us very strongly that there is a need. The hospital Inland is planning a new Mjøssykehus. The situation of today's patients and the treatment offer has been hampered because I am asking questions here today. The situation at Kalne's concerns when this hospital was going to show the way for co-location within somatic and psychiatry. That's why I'm worried when the Hospital Inland in its own magazine - no. 4/2019 – writes that with the framework of a new hospital, ‘there will be about three-quarters of the required capacity in the Inland.’ What would the Council of State say to people like ‘Jon’ and to the employees who are in Delta in the Gudbrand valley, who stand up and tell about an unsustainable situation and a crazy economic pressure that does not ensure the need that is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e852	I am absolutely convinced that the grip that has been made on the Hospital Eastfold, which is now also being done when another hospital in the country is planning to gather mental and somatic health in one place, was absolutely correct and is right for the future. We see that people with mental health challenges, serious mental health challenges and drug dependence have an expected life expectancy that is 20 years shorter than in the general population. It is the most serious and serious impact of social inequality in health that we have in Norway, and deeply unfair. When a main explanation is just about not getting the same help for some common somatic diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer and diabetes, it tells me very clearly that it is right to make sure that these services are co-located. I understand very well that many people who work in the service experience a very demanding everyday life, not least in mental health. There we now make a big promise with the introduction of a mental health package, which is labour-intensive and requires a lot of staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e862	This question, from the representative Ole André Myhrvold to the Minister of Industry, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e867	I note that the Minister of Industry is here, and I am pleased, and I would like to congratulate the Council of State, Mr Sanner, with new responsibilities and new tasks. ‘The GYPROC record producer receives approximately 11 times the CO 2 cost per unit of production as its contingent competitor due to the removal by the government of the CO 2 tax exemption on natural gas and LPG for chemical reduction, electrolysis, metallurgical processes and mineralogical processes — despite their equal CO 2 emissions per unit of production. How will the Council of States contribute to balancing the competitive differences that have arisen between gypsum record producers inside and outside the EU ETS, within and outside Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e885	Climate change is one of the main challenges of our time. The Government considers that the main instruments of Norwegian climate policy are and shall be cross-sectoral instruments in the form of greenhouse gas taxes and marketable emission allowances. The European ETS regulates emissions from industry, power generation, petroleum activities and aviation at company level and is based on a common European regulatory framework. Norway has been participating in the EU ETS since 2008. In the case of energy installations, for practical and administrative reasons, a lower quota limit of 20 MW has been set. The lower limit of the obligation to allowances discriminates against energy installations by the fact that large energy installations are subject to allowances, while small energy installations are not subject to allowances. This also discriminates against large and small producers of plasterboards, not only in Norway but also in the EU. The CO 2 tax on mineral products basically covers all uses of mineral products, i.e. mineral oil, petrol, natural gas and LPG. In order to avoid dual use of instruments, i.e.: the same emissions are covered by both the allowance obligation and the CO 2 tax are exempted from the CO 2 tax for mineral products that provide for emission allowances under the Climate Emissions Act. Thus, the general rule is that large energy plants are subject to quota while mineral products used in small energy plants are subject to the CO 2 tax. This also applies to producers of plaster boards. The allowance system determines the carbon price on the European allowance market and depends on the supply and demand for allowances. The supply of allowances is determined by the pan-European allowances legislation, while demand depends, inter alia, on: economic and technological developments. The quota price changes from day to day, but has varied in the last year around EUR 25 per tonne of CO 2, corresponding to approximately DKK 250 per tonne of CO 2. The CO 2 tax on mineral products is fixed by Stortinget and corresponds to nearly 550 kr per tonne of CO 2 in 2020. Thus, an activity subject to allowances is facing a greenhouse gas emission cost of approximately SEK 250 per tonne of CO 2, while a non-quota activity is facing an expense of just under DKK 550 per tonne of CO 2. Allowable activities may be allocated some allowances free of charge, thereby reducing their total allowance price. The Granavolden platform states that the government will reduce Norway’s non-quota emissions by at least 45 pst. compared with 2005. The size has also asked the government to introduce a similar CO 2 tax in the non-quota sector, and the government announced in the 2030 Climate Strategy that the government will assess the overall level of taxation for all non-quota emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e939	I assume that both I and the Council of State want as much as possible a level playing field for industrial companies operating in the same market and producing similar products. This becomes very technical, but: Does the Council acknowledge that this CO 2 tax produces such an unintended effect by imposing a higher CO 2 tax on non-quota enterprises than is now the case for the marketable competitors? And will the Council of State consider whether it is possible to reduce or lower the 20 MW threshold for smaller enterprises, according to EU legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e950	The starting point is here, as I was dealing with, the difference between the quota and non-quota sectors. For those within the EU ETS, the price will be regulated in the international market. There is reason to believe that the price over time will rise slightly so that there will be a smaller difference between the CO 2 tax paid by those in the non-quota sector and those in the quota sector. It is also true that there is a limit of 20 MW, which is set because it imposes quite large economic and administrative costs on both authorities and businesses to be in the quota sector. However, the 20 MW limit derives from the pan-European legislation of the allowance system. This means that it is not up to Norway alone to regulate that limit. I think we should all recognise that this is a dilemma, and here it is discrimination. But both magnification and government have been clear that we need to have cross-sectoral instruments. Then the first thing we can't do is hollow this out with a number of exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e962	I'm glad the Council of State acknowledges that we have had some bad effects here. My follow-up question will be whether the Council of State will take the initiative to see if it is possible to provide, for example: The Gyproc derogation under § 2f of the Decision, which includes, inter alia: states that exemption from the levy may be granted for mineral products used as raw material in industrial activities. Is there anything the Council of State will take the initiative to look at, if so?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e967	I said in my post that we have to recognise that there is a dilemma here, because you have quota and non-quota obligations, and you have this limit of 20 MW. At the same time, it is the government's position that we should achieve the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves, including for the non-quota sector, and that means that we need cross-sectoral instruments. Then, the first thing we can do – once we have introduced a similar charge that is cross-sectoral – cannot be starting to make a number of exceptions in that legislation. So we have no plans to introduce any new exceptions now. I think, on the other hand, that over time this will even out, because there is reason to believe that the allowance prices will go up as the emission requirements are tightened and there will also be fewer allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e975	I can join in the series of congratulations to new government councils, insofar as new government councils too, although of course I would rather stand here and congratulate a new government, but that is the way the world is now. ‘On 16 January, it became known that Telenor will separate, inter alia, fibre centres, TV antennas and mobile base stations in a separate company through the establishment of the infrastructure company Telenor Infra. This makes it possible to further reduce State ownership of the telecommunications network through possible sales in Telenor Infra. Will the government take the initiative to ensure full state ownership of the societal critical infrastructure that Telenor is now segregated in a separate company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e984	The government has recently submitted a ownership message. It appears that the State’s reason for ownership of Telenor is to maintain a leading technology and industrial company with head offices in Norway. It also appears that the state’s objectives owned by Telenor are the highest yield over time. The state has several roles. In order to create legitimacy for the different roles, the State should be aware of the role it is playing at all times. The State should also make a clear distinction in its behaviour between the role of owner and other roles. As indicated in the Communication of Ownership, considerations that are not justified by the objectives of the State owned shall be promoted by means other than State ownership. This role allocation is also reflected in the echo sector. In Norway, the eco-market is regulated in order to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services across the country through sustainable competition. Furthermore, the authorities impose safety and preparedness requirements on critical infrastructure. This is done by regulatory authorities, including: through the Ecoom Act and the Safety Act. Finally, let me also show that Telenor Infra is an independent and whole-time company under Telenor ASA, who owns and manages passive infrastructure, such as masts, poles, towers and construction. Equipment, such as antennas, fibre networks and base station equipment, is still owned and managed by Telenor Norway. The company in question, now located in Telenor Infra, was also previously located in various subsidiaries within the Telenor group. By comparison, Telia in Norway has also chosen to establish its own company, Telia Towers Norway AS, which manages the passive infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e995	I thank you for your answer. I also remember the reference to the ownership message. It is good that the government finally canceled its sale plan in Telenor. Now one has come into a completely new situation by Telenor herself taking the initiative to split up her business through a distinctly separate company that manages the infrastructure. This provides an opportunity to ensure just control of the infrastructure – state ownership of critical social infrastructure. For example, in the case of electricity, Statnet has full responsibility for the mains power supply and can compete on it. The equivalent now has one possibility. This should have been done when Telenor went on the stock exchange and was partially privatized. Then one should have such an organization. When you get this opportunity, will the government then seize the opportunity to ensure full state ownership of Telenor Infra?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1004	The representative describes it as splitting up the infrastructure. I would rather say that Telenor has now chosen to assemble this infrastructure into one company. There is no real difference, given that this is an infrastructure that has also been in subsidiaries in the past, but then in three different subsidiaries. Now it's in a subsidiary. This is a decision made by Telenor in the ordinary way, and there are ordinary business considerations behind it. It is about managing as best they can the resources they have, and simply generating the highest possible return for their owners over time. I see this as a natural part of Telenor's development, modernisation and management of its assets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1011	I fully agree with the description that Telenor is now gathering the infrastructure in one company. But it just makes it clear the different roles by Telenor being both responsible for the development and renting out the infrastructure to both themselves and others. It would have been a more sensible organisation to have full state ownership of the infrastructure, and so different actors could compete on that basis, as with the mains power grid, for example. Now one has opened up so that the state can invest in unlisted infrastructure around the world through the State pension fund abroad. Why is it more important than ensuring that we have full national and state control over basic infrastructure in our own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1018	I think the representative's question is good, especially if the representative also sees this as a matter of securing the nation's critical infrastructure in the echo sector. However, if the representative’s questions are taken into account, regulatory authorities should have been asked, for they are the ones who make demands for security and preparedness for what may be critical infrastructure in the ecosystem sector. Such a question must have been asked to the Minister for Digitalisation and not to me. I don't think it's unnatural that companies have infrastructure in their portfolio as part of what they do and own. The question of safety and social critical infrastructure is good and relevant, but must therefore be addressed to the Minister for Digitalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1028	It is time for congratulations, and then I would like to congratulate the Asheim Council on new challenges. The welcome gift from Stortinget is a question of a very important matter in his own home country: ‘The news that the Vice-Chancellor of OsloMet, formerly the University of Oslo and Akershus, proposes to terminate OsloMet’s study activities at Kjeller i Lillestrøm, has been met with disappointment and disbelief throughout the region. When merging the Akershus High School and the Oslo High School in 2011, it was a clear premise that both Oslo and Kjeller should be places of study. Does the Council of State consider that such a total lack of predictability can be justified by the management of the university and higher education sectors and will the Council of State act on the occasion of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1037	Thank you for the pleasant words of my associate, the representative Myrli, and not least for the gift. I'll try to accept it. Thus, after the merger of the Oslo and Akershu High Schools in 2011, the new institution, now called OsloMet, carried out several research and survey work on the future development of campus in the region of Rome on both Kjeller and Lillestrøm. On 25 October 2018, the Board of Directors of OsloMet dealt with a matter of new campus on Romerike. Two alternatives were then promoted: competitively launching a new campus in Rome or negotiating with Hemposa Somfosa Somfonnsbyg AS with a view to reducing the rental costs of existing campus on Kjeller. The purpose of saving rental costs was considered to be the most weightier, and the board of directors of OsloMet adopted option 2. OsloMet has negotiated a new lease with Hemposa Somfännsbygg AS that expires in the summer of 2043. The savings in the new lease are 20 million. kr per year in rent, which is also valid for the rest of the current contract period, until the summer of 2023. So it's about 90 million. kr. OsloMet submitted draft new rental contract to the Ministry of Knowledge for treatment in the autumn of 2019. The total cost of OsloMet with the new lease is about 1.15 billion. kr. When the sum of the rental costs is 100 million. kr or more, the contract must be submitted to the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation. It was done in this case, according to instructions on the handling of construction and leased goods in the State civil sector. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has assessed the case and did not oppose the conclusion of the supplementary agreement with Hemposa Somfännsbyg AS. On 16 December 2019, the Ministry of Knowledge authorised the OsloMet Ministry to enter into a lease with Hemposa Somfunnsbyg AS for the rental of premises at Kjeller. The majority has sent a clear signal to the government that universities and colleges have a separate responsibility to make decisions about their study structure. When the Stortinget dealt with the structural reform in higher education, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, said: ‘In the future, as at present, it must also be up to the institutions themselves and their governments to assess the implications of an appropriate locational structure.’ So, as the representative refers to, the principal at OsloMet, Curt Rice, sent a letter to the faculty boards on 15 January this year to initiate a new process at the university. He asks them to consider two alternatives: bringing together the entire business in Oslo or signing the new lease on Kjeller. On the basis of an overall assessment of the economy, sustainability and input from the units, the Vice-Chancellor will promote a case for the Board of Directors in March. The Authority has given the Ministry of Knowledge OsloMet to enter into the concrete lease agreement on Kjeller. Then it's up to the board of OsloMet to make the decision whether or not they want to conclude this agreement. The Ministry of Knowledge also has contact with OsloMet and keeps informed about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1061	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was something, but it's going to be very technical. This is really a political question. When the University of Akershus was co-located at Kjeller in 2003, there was a major political victory driven by the municipalities of Akershus, by Akershus County Municipality, by the Storing representatives of Akershus – cross-political – and by the industry and others who thought it was very important to have a new and modern co-located college. Previously, the University of Akershus had been spread in various departments, with locations in Bærum, Lørenskog and Blaker. Now it seems that these questions are entirely left to the universities and the colleges themselves. I repeat my question: will the Council of State do something on the occasion of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1068	I am sorry if the answer is seen as something technical, but I think it is important that the government is quite neat in this matter as well. This is a top political question, and the question is simply whether we as a government should go in and begin to instruct and interfere because a principal has promoted a case to his government in March. That would be contrary to how the Stortinget has told us that we should rule, which the representative Myrli's own party has also voted for, namely that this should still be up to the institutions themselves to organise. It is absolutely right that we will have meetings and follow this matter, but the Ministry of Knowledge has only approved a lease that the board has asked us to approve. Then the principal at OsloMet has promoted a new case for the board. We're going to follow it, of course, but for the time being it's not, given the instructions we've received from Stortinget, some basis for us to go into and interfere in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1075	This case is quite special. The story is that the University of Oslo and Akershus had two legs to stand on – the University of Akershus and the University of Oslo – and so it became a merger into one unit. Now the result is that one bone is completely kicked out, that there will only be study activities in Oslo. If it's not a political question, I don't understand. This is not a question that can be left to principals and professors. If education policy in Norway had been left exclusively to principals and professors, we would probably have only had the University of Oslo continued – or the University of Royal Frederik, as it was called. The development of the higher education and university sector has been a major and important political issue in Norway, so that ordinary people could take higher education, which they could not do before. This has been a success. My question again: does the Council of State have no objections to the total reduction of the offer of higher education in Akershus?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1084	I probably don't share myrlis' description of the Norwegian higher education sector. I don't feel like we'd just have a university in Oslo. On the contrary, it is seen as a sector that is very committed to maintaining a decentralised study offer throughout the country. I must almost remember the instructions I have now received as the responsible State Council from the Storting, namely that it should be up to the institutions themselves and their directors to assess what is the appropriate study structure, and what it involves. That means that, of course, as a state councillor, I can't, based on the fact that a principal has promoted a case to the board of directors, go in and start interfering with that matter. It also means that we give a lot of clear guidance signals to our institutions, about quality, follow-up of students and these things. But construction is something that they're essentially going to rule themselves. The Ministry of Knowledge and I are of course going to follow this case, but so far a lease has been promoted for the Ministry of Knowledge, which we have approved, and then there is a matter for the board to deal with in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1096	‘Hear management and Erna Solberg sells and privatises from Statskog. It's lucrative for people with a lot of money that hunting rights are privatized, so most people can be excluded. Forest sales must now stop immediately. Forests, forests and mountains will benefit everyone in Norway. Why does the government sell our common forest that we own together through State Forest, to buyers who live elsewhere than where the forest is located, so that hunting and fishing rights are privatised and people are most shut out?"
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1103	I am somewhat surprised by the question from the representative Sandtrøen of the Workers' Party, for this sale was initiated under the red-green government, and it was the red-green government that set out the guidelines for how the sale was to be carried out. Statskog's arrondering sales started in 2011, after Statskog had bought large forest properties from Orkla. The board of Statskog concluded that the purchase would enable the sale of scattered forest properties from which the company previously owned in South Norway. The assessment was then to strengthen the economy of the enterprise, while at the same time strengthening the nutrient base of private forest owners, municipalities and general public. The sale could trigger new changes in husbandry areas, which the Environment Directorate could purchase in order to facilitate forest protection processes. I myself, as rapporteur, put in bidding rounds in 2011 because Statskog was going to sell property where I lived. A central point of the 2011 guidelines is that the properties are to be sold at market value and that the sale is to be made through bidding. Furthermore, the guidelines – from the Red-Green Government – show that State Forest is to seek the highest possible price for the properties. When the government of Solberg entered into force in 2013, the guidelines for the sale of forest were continued. What we're doing today is a continuation of what the red-green government decided to do. So it's not about large-scale privatisation, it's about a roundabout sale, as the red-green government actually decided. It is then up to Statskog to assess what and how much is to be sold, within the mandates they have received. The representative is engaged in hunting and fishing. Yes, hunting and fishing rights follow the landowner when he sells. This applies both to the properties purchased by State Forest from Orkla and to the properties sold. So the hunting rights follow the property, regardless of whether it is the neighbor who buys it or whether the buyer comes from another municipality. On the other hand, a change of ownership does not affect the right of all persons, the right of movement, the right to use forests, forests and mountains. It's just like it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1114	So here we have to start by cleaning up a statement that's wrong. It is true that the red-green government made sure that we could buy up Borregaard Forests together, but what we are now talking about is a large-scale forest sale that goes far beyond what has been financing for Borregaard Forests. And then the important point is, there's a big difference between what's called arrondering sales, adding some little cadastral parcels to local forest users, and what we now see from the right-wing government, is that city lawyers buy up giant areas, for example. on Hitra, to gain control of hunting rights. It is the Workers' Party's clear against – we believe that nature should be owned together, or that it is local that can manage it properly. What's happening now is the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1119	I do not know on what basis the representative claims that we have gone far beyond what was the idea of the red-green government, all the time Statskog has not yet sold as many covers as what was adopted under the red-green government. In fact, they have not sold everything they got in their portfolio to sell. They have sold a total of 215 properties of a total of 540 000 dekars. They had the basis to sell 600,000 dean, and they haven't done it yet. The breakdown by buyer groups is 66 pst. to local buyers, 12 pst. to the Environment Directorate, 7 pst. for municipalities and 15 pst. to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1124	15 pst. out of 540 000 dekars are quite as large areas, and it is deeply problematic. We in the Workers' Party demand that the government now provide a comprehensive overview of who are the new forest barons that buy up areas completely different from where they live. Unfortunately, we have not. That's why we have now made a demand, a proposal in Stortinget, that we expect the majority of the population to vote for, so that there can be transparency about who actually takes over yours and my forest, because that's what this is about. This is yours and my forest, which some people now get their hands on, and which excludes us. It was just to be lacking that there is not a single, transparent and total overview of who is now buying up your and my nature, which we now own together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1129	Back to the time I was sitting as rapporteur: then I was willing to buy the forest that was close to the center, so that the public and the municipality could facilitate different types of trails. But the guidelines for the sale were maximum bidder; I put in a bidding round with the Workers' Party in government, which sold State Forest's property. So we buy and sell now according to the guidelines that the red-green government laid down, and from these, the red-green government should have known that there might be others who can get hold of it. But it's 15 pst. of it. The rest has gone to others, who will make this a service for everyone, and that gives everyone the opportunity to travel in forests and fields, vastness and heaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1134	Case No. 2, the ordinary question hour, then move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-29.ana.ud226e1148	There is no record available. Thus, today's map is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? That's not what happened. - The meeting has been cancelled.
