ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e85	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives of Runar Shaastad and Jette F. Christensen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate for Vestfold, Arve Høiberg, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e105	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kari Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Henriksen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e119	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e124	I would like to be allowed to present a proposal for a representative from Jan Bøhler, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself on a national reunion at Kripos to strengthen and coordinate the fight against organised crime across police districts and borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e129	The representative of Himanshu Gulati will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e134	On behalf of Silje Hemdal, Roy Steffensen, Erlend Wiborg and myself, it is a pleasure to present a proposal for a representative to abolish the gambling monopoly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e140	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today’s map are dealt with, the President will state that today’s meeting – if necessary – will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e158	The pandemic continues to shape Europe. The health and economic consequences are enormous, and the pandemic will have a major impact on international development and the way we work together in the years to come. In Europe, efforts to manage the spread of infectious diseases and to find a vaccine have led to stronger health cooperation. The pandemic clearly shows that more – and not less – cooperation is the only realistic option for combating cross-border health threats. The EU has also significantly strengthened cooperation in the economic field. In addition to very comprehensive and rapid national measures, countries have reached agreement on a reconstruction package based on joint borrowings. This is an expression of both solidarity and mutual economic interest. The EU has increased its awareness of its own role internationally. More often, my European colleagues use the terms ‘European sovereignty’ and ‘strategic autonomy’ when discussing the role of the European Union in the world. Until recently, this discussion focused on the role of the EU in the field of security policy. Today, it's probably so much about economics and trade. The EU wants measures to prevent foreign companies from accessing the European market without complying with EU competition rules, and the EU wants stricter regulation of technology giants when operating in Europe. I note that countries such as the Netherlands and France, which often have different views of economic policy, have now presented a common position paper on how the EU should work to limit the market power of these companies. The pandemic has also led the EU to now discuss measures to make itself less vulnerable to the outside world, including: by making less dependent on producers in third countries, whether in the case of access to active substances for the production of medicinal products or to raw materials for batteries. Geopolitical, climate and economic developments are already among the catalysts for deeper European cooperation. This trend has been further reinforced by the pandemic. However, there are still some strong political contradictions within the EU and different preferences regarding the direction in which cooperation should go. Nevertheless, we now see an EU of greater coherence than in the long run, driven by the need for common solutions, whether in terms of pandemic management, brexit or the relationship with major global actors such as the United States and China. «Globalisation» and «national solutions» may be tempting policy slogans for many, but the reality is that the world needs cross-border access to vaccines, green technologies and investment and job-creating trade. It is now almost four and a half years since the British voted to leave the EU, and it is a month and a half before the transition period expires and we will seriously notice the consequences of brexit. From 1 January, the United Kingdom shall no longer be treated as if it were still in the EU and the EEA. The EU, the United Kingdom and Norway have worked hard to prepare for this day. In the negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom, there is still a fundamental disagreement on important issues such as contractual structure, competitive conditions and fisheries management. The time when you have to be in measure has been shifted several times. Now we are in mid-November, and there is still too much negotiation between the EU and the United Kingdom. For Norway too, we are now in the interview. Since the last presentation, we have established a framework agreement with the United Kingdom on fisheries management, which will enter into force in the new year. This means that Norway and the United Kingdom can start negotiations on quotas and zoning in the month-end of November/December. We also agree on a separate agreement on civil law cooperation. It may enter into force at the end of the year if the United Kingdom has not acceded to the Lugano Convention as an independent party until then. Furthermore, we have recently agreed on a bilateral aviation agreement, which will ensure air traffic between our two countries. And we have close dialogue in other areas, including: in the field of social security and health. As the Minister of Economic Affairs and I have previously informed Stortinget about, the work to conclude a free trade agreement earlier this autumn was delayed so that it would be submitted for approval in time for entry into force on 1 January 2021. The negotiations are going on too fully, but, as we explained, we need some more time to complete these negotiations. Our new agreement cannot therefore enter into force on 1 January. We therefore need a solution until the new agreement is in place. We agree with the United Kingdom on such a temporary solution and that it will be based on the preparedness agreement on trade in goods that we signed with the United Kingdom in April 2019. It was due to enter into force in the event that the United Kingdom would leave the EU without an outsourcing agreement. The solution ensures that trade in goods between the United Kingdom and Norway can continue as unimpaired as possible from the end of the transitional period on 1 January. This is intended as a temporary solution, a bridge, which enables trade in goods between the United Kingdom and Norway to continue as unaffected as possible after the New Year and until the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement. We want such a temporary solution to be as short as possible and work too fully to reach agreement on our new free trade agreement. Let me underline it again, among other things. the Minister of Economic Affairs, NHO and I have said many times: a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom could never be an adequate substitute for the trade relationship we have had with the United Kingdom through the EEA. There will be changes — including for Norwegian business — even if we want to have as close a relationship as possible to the United Kingdom. No free trade agreement could compensate for the loss of British participation in the internal market. Because the United Kingdom no longer wants to be part of the single market legislation as we are through the EEA, trade with the United Kingdom, not least in the field of services and the free movement of persons, will necessarily face more obstacles than today. As you know, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein signed a separation agreement with the United Kingdom in January this year. It is crucial that the agreement guarantees rights for Norwegian citizens of the United Kingdom and British citizens of Norway who have exercised their right to free movement before the end of the transitional period. The agreement requires legal changes and is also considered a matter of particular importance. Nordics who are already in the United Kingdom before 1 January 2021 are covered by the exit agreement. After 1 January, as other Europeans, the Nordics will be considered third-country nationals if they want to move to the United Kingdom to work or study. The Minister for Justice and Security has therefore requested the consent of the Stortingen to conclude the agreement in line with the Basic Law § 26. At the same time, the Minister for Justice and Security proposes a new Brexit law containing some provisions for the implementation of the Agreement. The legislative proposal also contains a regulatory body that will allow the government to implement temporary agreements between Norway and the United Kingdom and EU emergency measures that are, or will be, binding on Norway through the EEA and Schengen Agreement. The legislative proposal will also make it possible to lay down purely Norwegian transitional rules on matters which have occurred before the end of the transitional period and which will take effect after that date or which have occurred after the end of the transitional period as a direct consequence of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. The Judicial Committee agrees unanimously that the Storting agrees to the ratification of the separation agreement and to the legislative decisions in accordance with the proposal in the proposal. The proposal is to be examined for the first time today. If the legislative proposal is adopted as proposed, the government will adopt rules to facilitate the transition when the United Kingdom no longer falls within the scope of EEA legislation. Following relatively positive economic developments in recent years, the pandemic has now hit the European economy very hard, and the forecasts are worrying. It was as expected significant growth in Europe from the second to the third quarter, but it does not capture the second wave of infection that has now hit most European countries with full strength. Several EU countries had already weak government finances. At the same time, it is positive that EU countries have reacted rapidly to measures to counter the negative economic consequences of the pandemic, both nationally and at EU level. Covid-l9 has thrown over on many priorities, but does not seem to have led the EU’s two large flagships out of course. It is the European Green Deal – or in Norwegian: Europe’s green give – and the focus on digitisation. In these areas, the European Commission has maintained progress under the pandemic, and it also characterises the facility of the economic reconstruction package. After the pandemic hit in the spring, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron took together an initiative to re-establish the economy in Europe. The French-German initiative provided the basis for the agreement of the European Council in July on the reconstruction package, with a total framework of 750 billion. euro. The reconstruction package is historic in both its device and its scope. The aim is to speed up the reconstruction of the European economy in the wake of the pandemic, to ensure economic cohesion and a level playing field in the internal market and to underpin green and digital ambitions. The package will help EU countries to implement structural reforms nationally, in order to get out of the pandemic in the long term. Let me give you some general considerations about the green thing. The Minister for Climate and Environment will take a thorough look at the following climate and environmental policy aspects. At the same time, Europe's greening is the EU's new growth strategy, the EU's follow-up to the UN's sustainability objectives and the implementation of the climate obligation in the Paris Agreement. It will also be discussed by the Minister for Climate and Environment. But it is also a contribution to positioning Europe in economic and strategic competition for international leadership and defending multilateral cooperation. In this context, there is clearly an ambition to gain control of raw materials and value chains that can strengthen Europe’s strategic autonomy, in a situation characterised by increasing major activism. Europe’s greening will have a major impact on Norway, both directly through the formalised and comprehensive cooperation Norway has with the EU, and more indirectly through the standards and models defined by the EU in the green transition in a broad sense. Many of the ambitions are to be translated into legislation that will be binding on Norway through the EEA Agreement. At the same time, the initiative will open up new opportunities and provide a framework for trade in our main market. The reconstruction of the European economy will provide new opportunities for European business, including for Norwegian enterprises. In order to assist Norwegian business, all our foreign stations in Europe have been instructed to identify opportunities for Norwegian enterprises in the next generation EU reconstruction package. The survey shows that many countries have significant ambitions for green migration and digitalisation, and in this context Norwegian companies in a wide range of sectors have very interesting solutions to offer. Norwegian business must define what they are going to bet on. But we can help identify opportunities, and the most obvious possibility for Norway is now called Europe’s green give. The Government has therefore also expressed its full support for the green grant and has clearly informed the Commission that Norway wishes to be an active and relevant partner for the EU in this work. We also have good assumptions for that to be. Last Monday at the latest last week, this was communicated by the Prime Minister to Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in a digital meeting. Europe's green giving is an important joint project for the entire government. It affects almost all areas of society – and thus all governments. Within the government, I coordinate work on developing early and clear Norwegian positions, not only on legislation, but also by highlighting Norway's contribution to implementation. We should contribute to the achievement of the objectives we share in climate policy, and we should be a solid energy partner that promises new technologies and digitisation into the market. We need to be a driver of the further electrification of transport, both on road and in maritime transport. Norway is well placed to be an integrated partner through the EEA Agreement and through the programmes we are in – our research and innovation environments are already doing well in Horizon Europe, and I have great faith that we will continue to do so. We regularly meet EU Commissioners and will seek even closer contact with the Commission in the future on the green growth strategy. It would also be natural to include this as one of the bets in a possible new round of EEA funds. It is in Norwegian interest that the European Union succeeds, both economically and politically. Norwegian growth and welfare are affected by developments in our main export market. We have a common interest with the EU in a well-functioning internal market and an economically strong, green and competitive Europe. Covid-l9 has seriously highlighted the importance of cooperation with the EU for Norway. In particular, I would like to highlight our cooperation in the field of vaccines, where Norway has been able to join the agreements and arrangements negotiated by the EU for the purchase of covid-19 vaccines. This gives us access to the vaccine doses we need to be able to vaccine to the extent necessary. This would not have been possible for Norway to achieve on its own. We also participate fully in a number of EU bodies that are central to information development and cooperation, such as: the Health Safety Committee and the EU crisis management body; We are also involved in the professional work of the European Agency for the Protection of Human Rights and the European Medicines Agency. This participation gives us the opportunity to reap the experiences of other countries and contributes to good common solutions for Europe. We also have active cooperation through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. Here we have an agreement to establish and operate an ambulance plane for high-risk patients, and we have contributed with NOR EMT, the Norwegian Emergency Medical Team. Cooperation with the EU on health preparedness will continue to be important for Norway in the future. The Commission has recently presented several measures to increase the ability to address future cross-border threats to health, both in the short term, to address the pandemic and in the long term to address the underlying weaknesses. Norway will take an active part in these processes. European solidarity is a value that saves lives. The recognition of the pandemic is that closer coordination between European countries is needed in order to best manage the crisis. The pandemic has also challenged the core of the four freedoms of the internal market: the possibility for all of us to move freely across borders. On 13 October the EU adopted a Council recommendation on a coordinated approach to restrictions on free movement. Norway has made an active contribution to the design, and the recommendation largely respects Norwegian positions. The EU Council Recommendation states that countries are to decide for themselves whether measures are considered necessary to limit the spread of infection, with regard to the situation of infection in each country. It sets out some frameworks and conditions for action that countries may decide, including: in the case of so-called incidence and test positive requirements. The Commission has for the first time submitted a report on the status of the rule of law in all EU countries for the first time in the autumn. The report points to major or minor improvement points in all countries, but the main deviations from the rule of law were found in Poland and Hungary. It is good that this report comes, and we closely follow the EU's further follow-up to these important issues. In the negotiations on the EU’s long-term budget, the rule of law and fundamental values have been central. For the European Parliament, a clear link between budgetary resources and respect for rule of law has been a prerequisite for approving the budget. This encounters strong opposition from Member States such as Poland and Hungary. We are still negotiating with Hungary on EEA funds. For the government, securing the funds for civil society in Hungary is one of the most important of the EEA funds for Hungary. Our and the other donors' red line is that these civil society funds must be managed independently of the authorities in order to provide space for civil society. A solution with Hungary must take this into account, and we are negotiating on the basis of this absolute requirement. EEA funds are based on common values and respect for human rights. It is therefore irrelevant for us to provide support to municipalities and counties in Poland who have declared that they want to be LHBTI-ideology-free zones. This is a strong signal, and it's noticed. I would also like to use this opportunity to reiterate my concern that Poland, on 22 October, took a long step towards a ban on abortion – in a country that already has one of the most restrictive abortion laws in Europe. While previous attempts to tighten up abortion legislation have been stopped in Parliament, it is this time that the Constitutional Court has delivered its opinion. This has led to the greatest protests since the fall of communism in 1989, and the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice has now been postponed. Women's right to determine their own lives and bodies is a fundamental human right. We will continue to give Polish authorities a clear message about the importance of ensuring the fundamental rights of women and expressing expectations that Poland is complying with its human rights obligations. The situation in Belarus is very worrying. Security forces have stepped up violence against peaceful demonstrators who every weekend demonstrate against a regime lacking democratic legitimacy. Lukashenko and his closest circle seem to be set to knock down all kinds of opposition in an attempt to cling to power. We will continue to have a clear view of what is happening in Belarus. The lack of dialogue among the authorities also calls for concrete action. Norway is now finishing up on EU sanctions against 55 Belarusian officials, including against Lukashenko, and is in the process of implementing this in Norwegian law. Together with a number of other countries, Norway took the initiative to implement the OSCE’s Moscow mechanism. The report of the independent expert commissioned to investigate the human rights situation documents serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms both before and after the presidential election. The report also gives a clear recommendation to the Belarusian authorities to hold new presidential elections, in line with international standards. We fully support the report and its recommendations. I also recently had a meeting with Norwegian human rights organisations to discuss how we can further strengthen our efforts for human rights in Belarus. The message from the organisations and their Belarusian partners is clear – and in line with our demands to the authorities: Stop the violence, release everyone seized and start a political dialogue with the opposition. This was also the call from the opposition leader and Presidential candidate Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, with whom I discussed the situation recently. She stressed the importance of maintaining world society's attention on what is happening in Belarus. Together with other countries, we will continue to work towards a solution to the political crisis in Belarus. On 23 September the Commission presented proposals for a new Pact for Migration and Asylum. The objective is a more holistic approach, while at the same time respecting the different interests of the Member States in a reasonable way. The proposal is based partly on existing legislation and previous proposals, but also on new solutions. Measures are proposed in three areas: 1st@item: inlistbox Screening and quick procedures at outer limits. 2nd@item: inlistbox The allocation of responsibility for asylum seekers in the form of a mandatory solidarity mechanism, by which Norway is not bound. The mechanism could be activated in crisis situations, in search and rescue operations or in case a Member State experiences a pressure on migration. In a crisis situation, the contribution may be either relocation or return assistance, while in the other two situations the contribution may also be capacity building. 3rd@item: inlistbox Strengthen cooperation with countries of transit and origin in order to limit the pressure on migration towards the EU's external borders and to facilitate the return of persons who have not been legally resident. The government is basically in favour of the proposal. We have long expressed support for a pan-European solution to the common migration challenges we face. The proposals seem to slightly alter Norway’s association agreements with the EU, but we are now going through them carefully to get an overview of both the legal and the actual consequences for Norway. We also actively participate in the negotiations where it is open to it. It is only the proposal for screening, that is to say control at the external border, which is Schengen-relevant. Norway welcomes the establishment of a solidarity mechanism activated by a migration pressure, although Norway will not be bound by it. We are also not excluded from participation on a voluntary basis. We have expressed our desire to remain a partner for the EU, for example: in connection with EU return agreements and cooperation with countries of transit and origin, as we have done through our participation in the EU Multi-stakeholder Fund for Africa. The initial discussions on the migration pact show that there is disagreement about the specific border procedures. There is agreement on the need for solidarity, but there is a great deal of distance as to how the solidarity mechanism should be concretely designed. There appears to be a strong consensus on strengthening cooperation with third countries in the form of partnerships, where the fight against trafficking in human beings, the conditions of return and the underlying causes of migration will be central. Let me also explain some of the relevant EEA issues. Differentiated employer’s fee is one of the most important district policy instruments in Norway. The Commission has extended existing legislation and regional aid by 2021 and ESA has approved the extension of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme by 2021. In its call for consultations on draft new legislation for the period 2022 to 2027, Norway has pointed out that it should be open to the possibility of differentiation of aid within the same municipality and that there should be a minimum of sectoral exemptions. The Granavolden platform shows that the government will continue the tax advantages for electric cars in terms of non-recurring taxes and VAT for electric cars by 2021. This assumes that the VAT exemptions are re-notified and approved by ESA by the end of 2020. The notification of the extension of the exemption was sent to ESA in November and is now pending at ESA. ESA has sent Norway a formal letter of formal opening in a case concerning restrictions on the number of stages of the supply chain in public purchases. The Acquisition Regulation requires suppliers to perform public works or cleaning services to have a maximum of two stages in the supply chain below them. This provision includes, inter alia: exemptions for cases where several subparagraphs are necessary in order to ensure sufficient competition. The ESA considers that the provision goes beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objective of the provision and therefore is contrary to the principle of proportionality in EEA law. We have concluded to ESA that this provision is in conformity with EEA law. In particular, we have taken the view that it is necessary to exercise effective control in the fight against crime at work. We also believe that the provision provides sufficient opportunities to make exceptions. In addition, ESA has sent a request for practices from some Norwegian municipalities that have established guidelines and contract requirements that go beyond the procurement law. This applies in particular to acquisition practices from Oslo and Skien municipalities, respectively the Oslo model and the Skiens model. The enquiry by ESA has been answered in cooperation with those municipalities. There is no formal case against Norway, and ESA has not concluded in the case either. On 21 September the Commission published new guidelines on CO 2 compensation for the period 2021 to 2030. This arrangement is a matter of priority for the government. In the dialogue with the EU, we have emphasised that it is important for Norway that the CO 2 element in the Norwegian electricity price has to be correctly established and that businesses with equal risk of carbon leakage are treated equally. We are now working to integrate ourselves into the new EU guidelines and assess how a Norwegian scheme for 2021–2030 can look like. In the summer, the EU adopted the so-called social part of the mobility package in the field of road transport. This entails changes to the rules on driving and rest periods, controls, access to cabotage operations in freight transport and rules on the posting of workers. This is a matter on which the Norwegian road transport industry is very concerned, and which Norway has worked with, among other things. through cooperation in the Road Alliance. Overall, we consider the rules to be a step in the right direction for equal conditions of competition, better working conditions and better road safety. The road transport industry has signaled that it is largely in favour of the regulatory changes. The Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the other EFTA and EEA countries, has begun to integrate the new rules into the EEA Agreement. On 28 October the Commission presented a proposal for a Directive on adequate minimum wages and salaries in the EU. Neither the social partners in Norway nor the government wanted EEA rules that interfere with wage formation. We have worked closely with our Nordic neighbours in the EU to promote our views on the preparation of the proposal. It is therefore an important breakthrough for Norway that the Commission’s proposal clarifies that countries where wages are currently set through negotiations between social partners should not be required to introduce statutory minimum wages. Instead, the Commission proposes different rules for countries with statutory minimum wages and countries with wage fixing through collective agreements. The Commission stresses in its proposal that the best pay conditions are achieved in countries where collective agreements are strong. It is therefore proposed to strengthen collective agreements in all countries and countries with a lower degree of organisation than 70 pst. shall draw up action plans on how this can be implemented. In public tenders, operators and entire supply chains are required to respect the minimum remuneration that exists, either by law or by contract. The government is now working in close contact with the social partners to further evaluate the individual provisions of the proposal. The EU adopted a new regulation on animal health in March 2016. The animal health regulation with underlying legislation enters into force in the EU on 21 April 2021. The aim has been the simultaneous entry into force of the legislation in Norway, even though it is very demanding in time. Norway has requested some technical adaptations to the EEA Agreement. It is expected that the animal health regulation will be dealt with in the EEA Committee during the autumn of 2020. There is a need for the consent of the Storting before the legislation can enter into force in Norway. In the state budget for 2021, the government presented which of the EU programmes the government prioritises participation in for the period 2021–2027. Through programme cooperation with the EU, Norway has access to important research, infrastructure and technologies that we cannot easily develop alone. The final decision on Norwegian participation in EU programmes from 2021 to 2027 can only be taken after the adoption of the EU’s long-term budget. There now appears to be agreement on the budget between the Council and the European Parliament, but there is still a formal decision. For the programmes, this means that, overall, their budgets could increase by 15 billion. the euro in addition to what was the basis for government assessments in the State budget, which of course will have an impact on Norway. We will now follow up on the concrete implications of this for the programmes proposed by the government to participate in Norway. The EU also allows Norway to participate in the European Defence Fund, EDF, through the EEA Agreement. This is a positive and important signal. The Government supports the development of European defence cooperation and will be able to assess possible participation in EDF at a later date. The pandemic has put European cooperation to a tough test. The health and economic consequences are extensive, and some of us have been far from predicting that EU cooperation would break down. Instead, we see that the EU strengthens cooperation, not least in the area of health, economic and external relations. For Norway, health cooperation with the EU is very important in order to manage the pandemic at home. This cooperation would have been far more demanding without the EEA Agreement. To date, the European Commission has concluded agreements with five producers of covid-19 vaccines. These are agreements Norway will be part of. This will ensure Norway deliveries of vaccines already in the first half of 2021, provided that the vaccine candidates are authorised for use. Norway is not directly affected by closer economic cooperation in the EU, but we are part of a single internal market in the EEA area. This market is also our largest and most important market. The success of the EU's exit from the economic crisis is therefore crucial for our growth and well-being in Norway as well. For a small country like ours, with an open economy, it is essential that the international rules are based on the principles of the rule of law and strong multilateral institutions that can uphold these principles. When the EU promotes these principles in the global arena, it is also good for Norway. The government will continue to be a constructive partner and contributor to European cooperation. We work closely with the EU, both because it is in our interest and because it is in line with our values.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e294	European Green Deal or in Norwegian Europe’s green give – it is the EU’s green growth strategy. The goal is EU climate neutrality in 2050. In order to build a bridge for the future, it is set up for a thorough transformation of the economy. The strategy fives almost all sectors and announces actions in the fields of energy conversion and electrification, transport, industry, circular economy, natural disasters and food production. Many of the strategy is based on existing policies and legislation, while ambitions are now being tightened to increase the pace of green transition in Europe. Europe’s green giving will include Norway and Norway’s interests, although we are not bound by the EU’s 2050 climate objectives. Norway and the EU currently have close and committed cooperation based on the EEA Agreement. This is the case in the climate and the environment and for several of the other sectors covered by the greening of Europe. The EU is our closest market and includes our main trading partners, neighbours and allies. The greening of the EU will give important impetus to Norway and our transformation and give opportunities to strengthen our own green competitiveness. And we have a lot to contribute. The EU looks to Norway for carbon capture and storage, where Longships will have an infrastructure that can also benefit Europe. Our electric car bet is unique in world-class hanging. It is the driving force behind international technology developments. The core of Europe's green giving is building its own competitiveness through conversion. The government's systematic commitment to green shipping is one example. By setting requirements and investing in zero and low emission technologies, we achieve emission reductions here at home. At the same time, we create jobs and give Norwegian companies international competitive advantage. Norway has competence in several areas – such as sea wind and hydrogen. Europe's green landscape opens up opportunities throughout our country. Norway’s land-based industry also contributes to products that are important for green conversion, such as silicon and aluminium. We contribute chemicals and products based on forest and biological waste products. Norwegian actors are involved in the Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. There we are and promote knowledge-based green transition in a European context. Norway is – and should continue to be – an active partner in the green shift in Europe. The ambitions of the Commission are close to the objectives of the government platform and the new Nordic vision of a green, competitive and socially resilient Nordic region. Europe's green giving is the EU's follow-up to the UN's sustainability objectives and the Paris Agreement, which is also a guideline for Norwegian policy. Commission President von der Leyen has given Europe as one of his most important flagships. The initiative is not weighted by the pandemic and shall be allocated additional resources from the EU Retrieval Fund. The Commission stands a long way from focusing on this policy project, which also emphasises job creation and a socially equitable transition. The European Parliament has been a driver of resilience and increased ambition. The EU’s Heads of Government were some on a climate neutrality target in 2050 as early as last December. The EU is about to adopt a new climate law that will legislate on this goal in the EU. This is the issue of an enhanced 2030 emissions target high on the EU agenda. It is about securing a rough course towards 2050. It is also about following up the requirements of the Paris Agreement to strengthen climate change targets for 2030 this year, as a contribution to achieving the long-term global temperature target. Norway has already, for its part, reinforced the 2030 climate target from the current 40 pst. up to a minimum of 50 pst. and up to 55 pst. the reduction compared to 1990. We did so as the third country in the world and the first western country. Norway has a binding climate agreement with the EU, where we will work together to achieve our climate targets with yet another 40 pst. reduction by 2030. We want to work with the EU to achieve our stronger climate target for 2030, preferably 55 pst. as a target, as also provided by the Granavolden platform, for which the government has been called upon to meet the EU several times. Norway has been working over time for increased ambitions, both here at home and in Europe. Earlier this fall, the Commission proposed that the EU raise its target to 55 pst. The EU Parliament has entered for 60 pst. We have good faith that the EU will come to a political decision on a reinforced 2030 climate target before the end of the year, in line with the Paris agreement. With increased emissions targets, there are also changes in the EU toolbox. The Commission has presented an impact assessment that highlights how the EU can achieve its climate and environmental objectives, and not least how energy legislation can be used and modified to achieve a climate target of 55 p.p., which the Commission therefore believes is feasible. Concrete measures and instruments will be developed and presented by the Commission by the next summer. Norway is closely involved in this work, and we will continue to work actively to ensure Norway's interests in these processes. For example, the Commission may: propose an extension of the EU ETS to include emissions from transport and from buildings. Such an extension would result in major changes to both the quota system and non-quota emission legislation. This will affect the framework conditions for Norwegian operators. The Commission also assesses certain legislative changes to increase incentives for carbon capture in forests and other land use. It will take several years before changes in EU climate legislation are in place and before we know what consequences it will have for Norway. Until then, we have to stick to the legislation that we are bound by and that applies through our climate agreement with the EU, and then we have to plan our climate policy. It applies both to the quota system and to the non-quota emissions included in the so-called effort allocation, as well as to the forest and land use legislation. In any case, Norwegian emissions are to be emitted, and we will shortly submit a climate plan to the Stortinget showing how the government plans to do it by 2030. We are also in the process of applying CO 2 compensation to the industry. Let me also draw up two initiatives which illustrate in their own way how the EU is now also using more and new tools to promote green migration. It is a debt of resilient financing, which Norway will be covered by through the EEA. A classification system for viable economic activity, called taxonomy, is central here. The regulation establishing the framework is already adopted in the EU. The aim is to make it easier for investors to find green and productive projects. This work is under constant development. In order to be able to be called viable in the long term, an activity must meet specific requirements in several areas in the future. Climate is not just related. There are also requirements for circularity, low pollution and protection and sustainable use of water resources and marine resources, biodiversity and ecosystems. The second proposal, which represents something new, limits trade policy and imposes a possible CO 2 limit-fitting mechanism. The work here is still in the start-up pit, and we know so far little about what the Commission is going to propose next year. What is at stake is adding a CO 2 price to goods imported into the EU from countries where, unlike in the EU, industry does not pay for its emissions. All indications suggest that this will apply to some selected sectors in this case. The EU is concerned that this needs to be designed in ways that do not break WTO legislation. We are of course aware that the Norwegian industry will have interests in this, and the government will follow the matter closely. We only have one planet, but by 2050 we're going to consume as if we have three. It shows the United Nations estimates. The circular economy is a strategy to ensure that we live within the planet and meet the climate and environmental objectives and the UN's resilience goals. The circular economy is at the heart of the EU’s transition towards a climate-neutral society. A separate circular economy action plan has been presented with more than 35 follow-up points. Many are in the field of EEA cooperation. This is seen in the context of a new industrial strategy to promote a competitive, green and digital Europe. The government is now working on a national circular economy strategy that will deal with EEA co-operation, but in particular on how Norway will build competitiveness by investing in the circular economy. Circular economy is about using our resources more efficiently and longer, so that the extraction of resources goes down. It means product that lasts longer and that is easier to upgrade and repair. They are composed in ways that allow reuse and recycling. It is about innovation and new business models and providing consumers with better and safer goods and new types of services. Circular economy is about the entire value chain, and it starts with product design, which decides up to 80 pst. the environmental tax on a product. A framework for sustainable product policy shall be provided for next year. Norway has good intentions to contribute to that work. This applies, inter alia, to: battery management in the circular economy. Packaging is another important input area, with links to the plastic agenda that we also make globally from the Norwegian side, and has a significant impact on. The EU will continue to work on measures to stimulate markets and facilitate increased use of secondary raw materials. This is also an important matter for us. The materials that are not reused can be combined with and spread harmful substances to the health and environment that should have been removed from the crop. Sorting and recycling technologies can play a very important role here. Norway has a fully-fledged business and competence environment when it comes to the development of that kind of technology. When the EU adopts its large domestic market, it affects standards and value chains around the world. The Commission is busy producing resilient value chains that are also to take care of forests, land and biological deficiency. New legislation is being developed to prevent imports into the EU from contributing to deforestation in developing countries. Stricter requirements for the company's record are among the measures proposed. The European Parliament has also raised the risk of imported deforestation on the agenda. New EU rules on this may be applicable to us as a result of the EEA Agreement. We are in contact with the EU in the work on new rules. Norway’s climate and forest initiatives make us an interesting partner for the EU in this area. Here Norway has considerable competence, considerable experience, and significant examples. In October, the Commission presented a new chemical strategy. His goal is a non-toxic environment in Europe. The strategy shall contribute to the EU's green and digital transformation and to the development of a competitive and resilient European industry. The Commission is showing here that one has very ambitious health and environmental objectives. Norway, together with similar countries with high ambitions, has been actively working to ensure such a level of chemical strategy. Through the EEA Agreement, we have the most important chemicals legislation in the world, but developments are taking place quickly and require continuous updating of this legislation. Norway welcomes the fact that a broad European ban on perfluoro-substances, PFAS, is now being announced, except for essential purposes. This group of substances is used in a wide variety of products, such as clothing and – as the Storting has been busy with – paint mutilation, and has a potentially very harmful effect on health and the environment. The chemical strategy is also clear on the need to protect consumers, vulnerable groups and workers from the most dangerous chemicals. Here it will be, among other things: notify a power take-off to ensure that toys are free of hazardous chemicals for health and the environment. Norway has long been busy protecting against endocrine disrupting drugs, which has also emerged well in the new strategy. The procedures for the evaluation and regulation of substances shall be streamlined. The strategy also announces strengthened legislation to regulate combination effects where chemistry becomes more dangerous through interaction with other substances. The Commission will also improve the enforcement of the legislation. From the Norwegian side, we have been busy with better control of imported products into the EEA area, and Norwegian authorities have shared in pan-European supervisory actions in this way. We also welcome the fact that the Commission will strengthen work at global level on better regulation of chemicals. Here the EU and Norway are important allies. The International Panel on Nature has shown that we all have a way of protecting nature better and ensuring the biological diversity of the earth. The EU has made securing the environmental and natural resource base a central element of the green transition. The Commission has presented a 2030 biodiversity strategy and an agricultural strategy called "Farm to Fork", which will be put in context. The biodiversity strategy is largely about conservation and restoration of nature. The aim is for Europe's nature in 2030 to be on the road to reconciliation in a way that benefits human beings, the climate and the economy, while at the same time working for an ambition in the UN negotiations on a new global nature agreement. The ‘Farm-to-Fork’ strategy shall ensure the transition to a viable EU food system. This is about improving food security and improving access to a healthy diet from a healthy planet in a way that involves farmers, businesses and consumers. These strategies are wide-ranging. There will be areas covered by EEA cooperation, although nature protection is outside the EEA Agreement and Norway is outside the EU's common agricultural policy. An example of this is work that is warned to ensure more sustainable use of plant protection products. We can also expect Norway to be covered by measures relating to the EU Water Directive, which is a framework for our important water management plans. Norway is also closely involved in the EU's work on renewable energy, where a review of biofuels with a high risk of land use change is announced. Europe's green give combines climate and environment with growth, well-being and value creation. The initiative is based on the highest level in the EU to ensure a holistic, strategic and coordinated implementation. In Norway, the follow-up to Europe's Greens is a joint project for the entire government, well coordinated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are usually well-informed to identify Norwegian interests in all the individual proposals that are presented. We note that Norwegian businesses, different industry actors and other stakeholders are now also increasingly focusing on Europe's green giving and the many initiatives that are under development. That's what they do wisely. It is a good promise for the government that Norway will be an active partner for the EU in the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e372	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Parliament. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e388	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e405	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e412	First, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter, which is a representative proposal from the SV on legal amnesty against reporting and criminal prosecution for own user doses to persons providing assistance to drug users where there is a risk to life and health. The Committee believes that, pending the drug reform, a legal amnesty is sought for those providing help to drug users in need of health care so that they do not risk being penalised by the police for own possession of their drug doses. Proposalers believe that this will help to ensure that more drug users can receive faster and better health care, and that the threshold for contacting the police and health services is lower. I agree that the issue of criminal prosecution as a barrier to seeking health care for drug problems should be taken seriously, and in this context demonstrates the government's desire to implement a drug reform. However, pending the reform, the legal status is such that, in circular 2/2014 on drug issues, the Riksadvokat has clearly stated that the police should give priority to the most serious drug offences. We understand that the Riksadvokat’s circular is not necessarily known among the group of drug users the representative proposal addresses, but emphasises that this should be the practice of the police, as instructed by the top prosecution authority. In the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, it is also pointed out that this has been the practice since 2014 and that the opinion is that the police do not report persons who have assisted in an emergency. However, one cannot rule out the exceptional occurrence of such cases. As I said, I agree that the issue needs to be taken seriously, but I also agree with the Council of State that it will be unnecessary and resource-intensive to start legal work related to this, when the issue seems to be quite small and the government will nevertheless come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for decisions and legislative changes related to the drug reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e427	Even when Odd Einar Dørum was the Minister of Justice, almost 20 years ago, it was stressed that the police were not to dig in the pockets of addicts after user doses, but rather to give priority to serious drug crimes. The National Attorney General also stressed in his 2014 circular that the police should give priority to the most serious drug offences, and clear instructions from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office were given that the police should not give priority to criminal prosecution of people with serious drug problems. The issue of criminal prosecution is an obstacle to seeking health care for drug problems, which must be taken seriously. However, although this is unlikely to occur, sometimes the police report drug users who are drug addicts and need health care. I understand that this can lead to fewer people wanting to contact when they need help, and it is serious. This is why the government is now going to present a drug reform, because people with drug problems are going to get help and not punishment, and because it needs to be easier to seek help and get help without having to be afraid of being punished. It concerns both those who have serious drug problems, those who have just realized that they are having a drug problem, or have realized that they have it, or those who are concerned about someone who does not yet understand that they are getting a drug problem. They must be able to seek help without fear of punishment. It will be both resource-intensive and unnecessary to launch their own legislative work on the specific issues raised by proposers here, when we know that the government is now working to present to the Storting a drug reform with a number of legislative proposals in this area. I look forward to the government presenting its proposal for drug reform, and I hope that it will not be long before it comes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e438	The next speaker is the representative Petter Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e443	Thank you very much, President, and good morning! We in SV present here a proposal for a temporary law pending the drug reform. We are familiar with the fact that drug addicts in our cities, who are usually drug injectors, sometimes observe the risk of death and a threat to health, and also overdose. We believe – and have also observed – that several of them are anxious to contact the health services of fear of being prosecuted. This summer I was on the street in Oslo with some representatives of the organisations working on this, and I met a group of drug addicts. While I was there, one person got a shot in the throat and suffered a severe seizure while she was lying there. Of course we were around them, very, very anxious that something might happen, but fortunately she came to the hedges very quickly afterwards. It's precisely in this kind of situation that we want to offer some kind of legal amnesty to those who observe such things in the street. Norway is at the top of the overdose in Europe. We have 260 overdoses in Norway this year, and we think this could have been reduced if we had managed to reduce the fear among the other drug addicts, so they could make it easier to make contact. Our proposal suggests that there should be legal protection for those who make contact, so that they themselves do not have to be anxious about calling on the healthcare system. Then I see that in the comments from the other parties, from the government parties, etc., and also the Workers' Party, reference is made to a circular from the Riksadvokat, which has instructed the police not to prosecute this kind of incident. That's absolutely right, and that's good and that's good. But it's not like the addicts on the streets of Oslo are reading the Riksadvokat circular – they're not actually doing it. No matter what the message is from the Riksadvokat to the police, it's like that fear is there. It's an experience of a fear that they have. Many of the addicts in our cities have been addicted to alcohol and lived in that environment for many, many years, and they have experienced the police as an enemy for many years. They don't feel that they will necessarily get the protection they need if they're alerting in these kinds of cases. An amnestylov, known from other countries, will send a clear signal to this group that they can safely alert, call the emergency phone number or contact the ambulance if they feel that this is necessary. I think it's absolutely necessary that we do this now to protect this group. So it's also the way we're going to deal with parts of this when we're going to deal with the drug reform. It is uncertain when it comes to Stortinget, and many lives may be lost before Stortinget adopts a drug reform. Our proposal in this case is that we ask the Ministry of Justice to make a temporary law. It does not have to be a large and comprehensive piece of legislation, for it should be temporary and valid until we have a current drug reform, which may – and hopefully – also provide this kind of legal protection. With this I submit SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e464	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e469	The government is working on a drug reform where punishment for drug use is to be replaced by help, treatment and follow-up. The representatives address an important issue, and I know that investigations have been carried out, where it appears that some people can refuse to invoke the help of fear of being reported for their own use. Of course, this is problematic. However, I am very uncertain whether the scale is so large that it suggests that something needs to be done with this now, pending the drug reform. The so-called "opportunity" principle allows police officers to use a certain amount of discretion in the performance of their duties, including: whether, in a given situation, there is an obligation to submit a notification in respect of any criminal offence which he or she may have observed. This also applies to a person’s suspected use or possession of drugs in an emergency where he has called the police. To regulate this discretion in the form of such an amnesty as is proposed for drug abuse alone could also be problematic. Similar cases may arise where criminal offences other than use and possession can be detected. There will then be a question as to whether such a provision should apply in general in the event of an emergency, which in turn could address other legal challenges. The prosecution authority shall also assess, in its turn, whether it is appropriate to prosecute matters or whether a waiver of charges should be granted. My conclusion, therefore, is that such a provision is neither appropriate nor necessary now when we are working on a new drug reform, which will be a major and important work that will also address this issue. Just as the Advocate General has been clear in his speech on how the police are to deal with people in the open drug area, so I believe that this is rather a matter of leadership from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office on how police officers should give priority to exercising their judgement in such cases. I believe that launching a major legislative effort on this now that our main concern is to provide the legal basis for drug reform before the summer, will not be a proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e487	It is known that the Minister of Health and Health and SV are on the same page in this case. We want a drug reform, and of course we also want drug addicts not to be anxious to make contact with health services if they observe dangerous situations. The disagreement here is really about the need to do legal work right now, or whether we can wait for the drug reform. My question to the Minister of Health is: pending the drug reform, what initiatives can he take to protect this group in an easy way? We have clear indications, including from addicted organisations, that this is a challenge. I call for an active and slightly ongoing attitude from the Minister of Health on what actions he will now take to address this problem, pending the legislative work on the drug reform later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e494	Firstly, I would like to stress very strongly that everyone can make contact with the healthcare system without being afraid to be reported or have any reactions. What's more the issue here is whether the police come to the place and what they're doing. Here I think there are very clear leads from the top prosecution authority on these kinds of issues, so I think it's so much about us all helping to protect the environment, that that's the attitude. The representative is quite right that addicts very rarely read circulars from the Riksadvokat, I think we should all admit that, but to get that kind of information out and make sure that's the practice, I think we can all contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e500	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e507	Our job is to help people. Our job is to make laws and regulations so that more people can get the help they need. The proposal from us in SV is to help people. The proposal is that those who want to help should not be afraid to talk to the police or call for help. Now we know that many people are afraid, since those who use illegal drugs can be barred if they call for help and try to contact the police. We've seen terrible things about people who could have been saved if they, or people around them, knew they wouldn't be punished when they called public authorities. Many, many countries have some kind of «Good Samaritan law»: Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Finland, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Romania, the United States and the United Kingdom. We can't wait. We should act now. Then we can save more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e516	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 4 and 5 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e547	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e554	In this proposition, we are discussing a new law on transitional rules following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, the Brexit Act, and a separate clause on consent to the ratification of the separation agreement and participation in the Triangulation Agreement. It's good to have the Foreign Minister start the day with a statement. I want to refer to what the Foreign Minister said there about the changes we are making in Stortinget today. The Government requests the United Kingdom to agree on the ratification of the Agreement on arrangements between Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and the United Kingdom on 28 January 2020 as a result of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU, the EEA Agreement and other agreements in force between the United Kingdom and the EEA/EFTA countries as a result of their being a member of the EU. Furthermore, the consent of the Storting is requested to participate in the EEA Committee’s decision to include in the EEA Agreement the EU-EEA-EFTA agreement on social security coordination for British citizens. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's comments in the setting. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU is governed by a comprehensive agreement, known as the ‘outsourcing agreement’. This Agreement shall govern, inter alia: the transitional period, which was also briefed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on earlier today. The proposed brexit law shall, in the first row, implement the separation agreement in Norwegian law. For the purposes of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we state in our opinion that the proposal gives relatively wide powers to the government. There is a joint committee saying that no time limits are proposed in these regulatory homes, and that therefore it cannot be excluded that measures or agreements of relatively long duration are implemented in Norwegian law by regulation and not by law, and thus without involving the Stortinget. At the same time, however, the Committee considers that the destination does not allow the establishment of rules derogating from the Basic Law or the Human Rights Act. The Committee proposed that permanent agreements should not be carried out in accordance with the rules of the proposed destination. To the extent that such agreements require legislative changes, the legislative amendment proposal will be presented to the Stortinget in the usual way, as it also states in the proposal. In doing so, I refer to the Committee's comments and that we propose to agree to the ratification and adopt the proposed transitional rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e571	It is now a little over six weeks until the transitional period agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom expires and the United Kingdom is no longer bound by the EEA Agreement or other agreements to which it is party by virtue of its EU membership. There will be a great transition for all, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained today in his European political presentation. The separation agreement between Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom and the Triangulation Agreement between the EU and the EEA/EFTA countries, which the United Kingdom is examining today, will help to facilitate the transition. Most importantly, the agreements ensure that Norwegian citizens who have exercised their right of free movement in the United Kingdom before the end of the transitional period and their family members will in the main retain their EEA rights. The same applies to British citizens in Norway. The separation agreement also has so-called phasing-out provisions that regulate conditions that have occurred before the end of the transitional period but that end after that date. The agreement is important, and I am therefore pleased that, in consultation with the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the Judicial Committee has unanimously agreed to the ratification of the agreement by the Stortinget. The Agreement has provisions requiring implementation in Norwegian law. The Government has therefore proposed a new Breexit Act with provisions on the right to equal treatment, the right to work and establishment and provisions on social security coordination. Changes to the Vocational Qualifications Act and the Law on Secondary Education have also been proposed. Furthermore, the Government proposes a regulatory home in the Brexit Act to be used to implement the other provisions of the Norwegian law separation agreement and to implement temporary agreements between Norway and the United Kingdom, to implement EU decisions relating to the EEA and Schengen, or to establish purely national measures. I consider it important that the government in this way be given the opportunity to quickly adopt measures to mitigate the negative effects of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU. Finally, I would like to thank Stortinget for the quick handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e586	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e603	It is not so often that the Progress Party gets an impact on its primary policy here in Stortinget, but what has never happened before is that we get an impact on our primary policy until our case has been dealt with. That is what has happened in this case. In the context of a proposition in the past, the Stortinget decided a few weeks ago that we should ask the government to put forward proposals to ban sibling childhood. It is very joyful, and therefore there is no need to take that debate today. But it shows that it is useful to work over time, as the Progress Party has done in this matter. That means you're finally getting an impact. My expectation is that the government will follow this up, and that there will soon be a bill for the Stortinget. It is a relatively simple affair to implement this type of legislation. I would assume that there will be relatively small changes in the marriage law until this is in place. So we had a similar provision in Norway earlier. So I expect the government to come back quickly to the Storting. So I'm not going to take the time anymore, except to say that it's gratifying that the Progress Party will have an impact on policy before our proposal comes to consideration in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e612	We are presenting here a case for Stortinget, which is really about drawing a case. The Progress Party has presented a proposal for a representative on the prohibition of sibling childhood. We withdraw that case, because the content of the case was dealt with in connection with the treatment of Prop. 66 L for 2019–2020, which we dealt with a week or two ago, where this also came up. Thus, it is correct formally to draw this matter. This is what I say as the rapporteur on the matter. Now I am not going to speak as the rapporteur on the matter; now I am going to speak as an SV politician and a member of the Justice Committee, and then I regret this process. It has been messy and not entirely in line with how the Storting should deal with such cases. The case was examined by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in February, and the various party groups were then given the opportunity to work up to a position on this subject, with the timetable for the matter to be decided in February. What happened during the treatment of Prop. 66 L, was that the Workers' Party and also the Advance Party coupbled this timetable and pushed this matter forward for three months, so that among other things. We in SV did not have the opportunity to deal with this matter internally properly. I think it was a very unfortunate procedure, because this is a matter that is complicated and difficult and not as simple as the previous speeches later that. This is a matter in which there are essential principles and also rights and Norway's obligations towards international conventions against which such a prohibition must be tested. It will also require an investigation, which will now be carried out by the Ministry of Justice, of how this will be in relation to Norway’s international commitments. I regret that Stortinget did not have the opportunity to do this properly before the conclusion was given, and in my view in a relatively superficial and little thorough manner. I also have to add that as the matter was dealt with in connection with Prop. 66 L, where there were a number of other issues – a number of other issues and difficult issues – we did not, therefore, get an exhaustive and thorough discussion of this. I am sorry that Stortinget did not have the opportunity to deal with this matter properly and thoroughly, but hopefully we will have the opportunity to do so when the matter comes back from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e623	The President will only clarify, for the sake of order, that the recommendation, promoted by a Joint Committee, is that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e628	There was a clear clarification from the president, because there is no alarming thing about either the treatment or the matter today. The fact that it is annexed to the Protocol is brought forward by a consensual committee, and that there are proposals from the party in other matters in the Storting at a time when individual representatives cannot be so pleased is not particularly alarming either. The question of sibling parenthood is not a new question. This has been the case in the Stortinget earlier from the Workers' Party. All parties, I think, have had plenty of time to discuss the matter, even if one might think she is challenging. So I mean there's nothing wrong with neither the process nor the suggestions that are made. It was also known that there was a plurality in Stortinget to impose a ban on sibling childhood. That's what the Workers' Party is pleased about. And then the representative Eide is absolutely right that there will be plenty of opportunity to discuss this matter when the government returns to the Stortinget. I would like to remind you that what the Storting decided was an appeal decision, asking the government to come to Stortinget with changes in the law, and not a direct bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e637	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e657	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e670	When I look across the hall, it may seem that there are several people who were a little surprised at how fast it went today, but I hope we get more colleagues with us later on. The work on this forecast has been quite extensive. At first reading, I thought the message was a good starting point for discussing transparency about death and care at the end of life. But from a good starting point for discussion, there's still a bit until this message ensures a proper lift for palliation. During the hearing, it became very clear that the professional community and patient organisations were disappointed with the measures proposed in the Storing Communication, or to be more precise: they were disappointed with the lack of action, for there were a number of proposals in the NOU that had not been raised by the government when this communication was presented. Some hearing bodies actually went so far as to say that the field would be set back in time for this message. I have been to hearings where more money has been requested, and that we have pointed out the lack of bet and ambition, but that a field is being set back in time, is quite a powerful diet. Three areas were repeaters and were specifically raised as deficient: organisation, competence and research. As the rapporteur, I have taken these three starting points in my work on the message, and I will explain the cards for each of them. I'll start with organization. Several municipalities have already established palliative teams. The Committee points out that the further development and strengthening of these are important for patients to experience safety and good relief at their place of residence and to ensure cooperation with hospitals. However, only the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV support the proposal that all municipalities should have palliative teams, possibly as intercommunal teams. The three parties also promote proposals for palliative centres in hospitals and the strengthening of regional competence services. The three parties, together with the Progress Party, have a majority in order to review the funding of guidance and outpatient activities for the specialist healthcare palliative team, so that this does not hinder the proper follow-up of patients. With regard to funding, the same four parties also support a proposal to ensure the use of Lukas Hospice a predictable funding during the project period. The entire Committee supports facilitating the integration of the hospice philosophy into the existing healthcare system. The next main point I want to draw is competence. The Committee concludes that there is a need to increase the level of competence of services. There is a need for both basic and more specialised competence. While the government has made a proposal to find out whether there is a need for its own medical speciality in palliation to meet the needs of the specialist healthcare and municipal health and care services, the opposition wants to take immediate action. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose that palliative medicine be established as a supplemental speciality – an additional education for medical specialists that provides formalisation of competence in palliative medicine. As a result, clinical training positions must be established. Here, there may be amendments in the course of the debate, I have been familiar with. In addition, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV promote proposals for framework funding for continuing training in palliative care and nursing care, the development of several master programmes in palliation for different professional groups and the strengthening of the vocational school offer in palliation and the strengthening of intra-company training. Only by providing increased competence for all the trade unions will we be able to secure the entire palliative chain. The last main point I want to raise is research. The Committee stresses that palliation and mitigation are highlighted as a research area in several areas of the Communication, and the Committee agrees that there is a need to know more about the needs of users and patients, the organisation and establishment of services and the impact of the actions undertaken. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose the establishment of their own research programme in the Research Council within palliation. In addition to the three points mentioned, the whole Committee is gathering together, and I am pleased that an action plan is needed and proposes this. Here the Committee points out several things – that hospitals have a plan to prevent over-treatment at the end of their lives, better cooperation between hospitals and municipalities about the seriously ill patient and to prevent unworthy transfers of patients in the final phase of life, and that no one receiving health care, as far as possible, will die alone. This shall also apply in the event of pandemics and similar crises, and finally we should have a plan to strengthen the competence to care for the spiritual and existential needs of humans. – With that, I recommend the vote and address the proposals of the Labour Party together with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e698	The representative Tuva Moflag then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e703	St.meld. No 24, in terms of relief and care, should contribute to the overall care of all patients in order to achieve the best possible quality of life at the end of life. It is an important objective for us in the Right that the provision of active life support, pain relief and care for patients in the final phase of life should be accessible to all, regardless of age, diagnosis, level of function and place of residence. This call for proposals will form part of the basis for the policy on alleviating treatment and care in the years ahead. Children and young people and their families are particularly vulnerable. Therefore, they are specifically lifted in this message. These people need adapted organisation and care, a holistic approach, enhanced participation and increased competences. The Storting Message facilitates this group to live as normal a life as possible. The greatest possible amount of time in your own home can contribute to a more normal everyday life and improved quality of life. It imposes greater requirements on care services, which must be based on the wishes and needs of each family. The provision of adapted relief makes it possible to be more at home for families who want it. Children and young people will often have a long-standing and complex need for services from specialist health services and municipal health and care services. This requires cross-level cooperation and professional cooperation. Private, non-profit and voluntary actors have a different role to play at the end of their lives. It is important to look at the overall offer of relief and care for children, young people and their families. In this year’s mission letter to regional health businesses, they are asked to set up their own children’s palliative teams. We expect healthcare companies to follow up this order, so that seriously ill children and young people across the country receive an equivalent offer. It is important that children living in their final phase of life experience as normal a daily life as possible. For some families, a stand-alone offer such as hospice may be helpful and useful in parts of the treatment cycle, but such an offer must be complementary to an equivalent and good palliative offer. Living near someone who will die is demanding. It is especially demanding for children and young people to be related to family members whose lives go toward the end. Many relatives feel that they are not stretching. The relatives themselves may need support and relief. Special care must be taken of children and young people who are related. This big message is concerned with providing good life support. This means that the individual meets with relief and care, so that the last part of life can be experienced as well and meaningfully as possible. Life help is also about getting help to accept death as a natural end of life, as well as taking care of the full breadth of a person's need at the end of life. The need for palliation increases as average life expectancy increases. This leads to increased requirements for knowledge, including: to the health care staff and their dependants. There is a need for more research into relieving treatment and care. A specific programme has been proposed in the Research Council within palliation. The municipal health and care services have a specific responsibility to develop the competences of the palliation and care of the relatives. This team is part of the continuing training provided through the Competence Plan 2020. There are also centres of expertise for relieving treatment in each health region. It is natural that centres of excellence contribute to an equivalent offer for the entire population of Norway. The draft budget for 2021 proposes 62.3 million. kr to strengthen the palliation field, including the establishment of relief units. Night transport of vulnerable patients is unworthy and should not take place if the patient does not wish to do so himself. Patients in the final phase of life should not experience unnecessary movements between home, hospital and hospital. In the 2020 mission paper, the Minister of Health and Health asked regional health businesses to ensure that patients with need for assistance and care are ensured transport during the day and afternoon. The establishment of health communities is also important in order to provide a more holistic and coherent service between hospitals and municipal health and care services. In the health community, hospitals and municipalities should plan and develop good and holistic services together, including better procedures and procedures that benefit the individual patient. We in the Right will create patients' health care. In patients’ healthcare, no decisions are made about you without you. Everyone will be met with the question, ‘What is important to you?’ This is at least as central in the final phase of life as it is otherwise. For those who are to receive relief and care, it is important to be heard, understood, included and respected. In this way, the individual can experience a dignified end to life. Much work has been done on the Committee's position. I want to commend the case rapporteur for good and thorough work, as the representative Moflag always does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e734	It's been three years since I last sat on the Health and Care Committee, and one of the things I got to fight back at the time was getting a NOW about how we wanted the final phase of life to be in our country. And now I get to join in dealing with the result of this NOO. Some parties criticise the fact that the message is not concrete enough. Personally, I liked what I read, because it showed that it's happened a lot. Palliation is a subject of great development, and there has been a great deal of connection with children's palliation in recent years. I liked the big focus on freedom of choice. I like the life testament and that the message is based on the hospice philosophy. And I like that the government will start a law work that will assess how serious ill patients can increasingly refuse to receive medical treatment. How humans die, remaining as important memories of those who live on, the founder of one of the first modern hospices should have said. I missed a little bit more about the theme hospice. The funding of hospices remains the main obstacle. We've seen that for years, and it's a problem that we have to solve. The Progress Party supports an action plan with specific objectives, responsibilities and deadlines for implementation. Until the 1950s, most of them died at home. The last 20 years have only between 13 and 16 pst. dead at home. The Communication places great emphasis on the possibility for many more people to die safely at home, which is what many Norwegians want. Relieving treatment and care is a responsibility for both the specialist health services and the municipal health and care services. In addition, non-profit institutions serving households and non-profit institutions contributing, and not least related ones. Several municipalities have now established palliative teams, and further development of these teams must be central to the provision of municipal services and cooperation with the specialist health service. Health legislation obliges the specialist health service and the municipal health and care service to cooperate. Such cooperation may also address the sharing of competences, which is an important prerequisite for the follow-up of patients receiving relief treatment in municipalities. For the Progress Party, freedom of choice is central. We believe that it is not sufficiently focused on the importance of free user choice and are not satisfied that reference is made to an existing guide that provides advice on how to implement free user choice. We therefore promote proposals for an investigation of free user choice according to the model from Sweden. The government's goal of all experiencing a dignified end to life in line with their own wishes and values is contradictory, all the time spent neither active death aid nor terminal sedation being taken into consideration in the Storing Message. For the Advancement Party, it's a fundamental right to be the head of your own life, your whole life. We believe that the debate on active death aid in Norway is too marked by views and allegations, now at the end of a comment by the majority of the committee. Here they invite people who today feel that they are at heart, to think about death. Such connections are the last thing we need, to people who already have it hard. For some, the final phase of life is extremely painful. This is difficult both for those who experience the pain, and for those around who see that the one they are happy with is suffering. It triggers a number of ethical dilemmas, and different countries have different practices and laws in this area. It would therefore make sense to set up a sample that can look at practices and legislation in other countries, and the consequences of a law that gives more rights. Finland has started such an investigation – we want the same thing. It is important to encourage children and young people in need of relief and care to get this at home or as close to home as possible. In this way, the child can have a daily life around him and be as close as possible to the family. A children’s hospice shall be an offer for those who wish to do so and an important addition to those already in existence and under development. I respond to those who have opposed the creation of a children's hospice. Different people want different things. Not having respect for this inequality is unworthy and very devastating for the diversity that we all want. I am proud that the Progress Party has supported the parents who have wanted a children's hospice, who can be a break for a hard-tested family, who can be a knowledge intermediary, and who can be a educational arena. We're not on target, but we're on our way. With this, I address the proposals of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e768	The representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e773	The Storing Message on Relieving Treatment and Care is an important message. Active life support, pain relief and care for patients in the end-of-life phase shall be available to all, regardless of age, diagnosis, level of function and housing. But the big message has been criticised for being too much of a status report. In the call from the Regional Competence Service for Relieving Treatment in Health South-East, it is stated that while the NOU provided a thorough treatment of both basic and specialised palliative care, the spillage message has a one-sided focus on the basic level, and is thus at risk of building up the subject instead of strengthening it. A few of the concrete actions proposed in the NOU are left in concrete actions in the Single European Act. The centre party is therefore pleased that a joint committee has now taken action and supports the demand that this roll-out message be followed up by a mandatory action plan for alleviating treatment and care, which is to be submitted to the Stortinget. The action plan must include, inter alia: ensure that all hospitals have a plan to prevent overtreatment. He must have measures that saw a stop for unworthy transfers of patients in the final phase of life. He must set a goal that no one should die alone or be alone in the final phase of life. He must ensure better cooperation on the seriously ill patient through a cooperation agreement between municipalities and hospitals. And he must strengthen the competence of health services to sustain the spiritual and existential needs of human beings. The message focuses on ensuring more openness about death. It's positive, but I think the most important thing is to stop hiding the death of an institution. A development where more people can die at home – or perhaps even more important: having more time at home in the last phase of life – will make it natural with more openness about death. The message is weak when organizing the palliation field. The setting set set out in the committee says that several municipalities have already created palliative teams, but after the Central Party has been informed in response to budgetary questions, this concerns four municipalities, the four largest cities of Norway. So it is a long way to go that palliative teams are becoming a reality in the municipality of Norway. In this context, municipalities must have a financial framework to prioritize the creation of such services. The decision-makers need to make greater calls for home visits and to be included in the multidisciplinary cooperation between patients with short life expectancy. Regional hospitals should have a fully-fledged palliative centre. Local hospitals must have at least a palliative team. And the regional competence service needs to be strengthened. If we're going to be able to build such a structure, we need ear-marked means, at least in a build-up phase. The centre party is included in the proposal in the setting. I am pleased that a majority in the Chamber asks the government to review today's financing scheme for the palliation field in hospitals. Today's method of financing is an obstacle to what many people now want more, namely more outpatient activities, counselling, cooperation with community health services and visits to their homes. The message states that there is a goal to secure a lack of availability. Then there's a paradox that Luke Hospice in Malvik now has to close the doors because they lack state funding, which was hoped for. In 2019, the Lukas Foundation was commissioned to establish, test and evaluate a stand-alone hospice at Bethania Malvik, with day-to-day facilities, volunteering and care services. The reason for the creation was that Luke Hospice was to be a five - year project. The central party is involved in a proposal, which is a plural proposal, to ask the government to make sure that Lukas Hospice in Malvik is well funded during the project period. Relieving child and youth care is highlighted especially in the message because this group needs special arrangements and responsibilities. That's good. But there's been a discussion about baby hospice. The centre party does not support the creation of children's hospice in Kristiansand This was not a recommended measure in the NOU, and it is not supported by many representative organisations and trade unions. Instead, we will use the funds to build children's palliative teams in all health regions. Both the trade union environment and the selection that wrote the NOU call for formalisation of competence in palliative medicine with its own speciality status. This no longer needs to be done or evaluated, this needs to be done, and we also make suggestions about it in the setting. With this, I'm going to deal with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e794	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e799	The government's message was bad. We had a good NOW in 2017, which had many good suggestions that the government has not proposed in this case. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and we in SV have proposed many important measures. Many of them are also members of the Progress Party, and that gives us a majority. It is good for all those in need of relieving treatment that they get better help with these important proposals. For us in SV, the children's palliative team is one of the most important proposals we promote. Very sick children cannot travel far away. They need good help where they live. The Lövemmammamma work for better help to the vulnerable children, and want to have it, not children's hospice. SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, but without the support of the Progress Party and the Government Parties, proposes to establish children's palliative teams at all regional hospitals in Norway and to finance them through earmarked funds at a construction stage – as SV also proposes in its alternative state budget. Patients are experts in their own lives. They have the knowledge to get the best treatment. The SV suggests that public institutions can offer more freedom of choice in the final phase of life within today’s services across the country. This must include training, the need for delegated powers and resource enhancement. SV wants more freedom of choice so that patients can choose where, when and how they want help. It is sad that all parties will vote against more freedom of choice in public institutions. Lukas Hospice in Malvik would help many to get good days at the end of life. They had a mission to establish, test and evaluate a stand-alone hospice. They had to close the doors six months after they opened, because they lacked government funding. I don't know if the government has forgotten the patients or just chosen not to get the funds they needed. But I'm proud that the majority on Stortinget will ensure funding throughout the project period. The case of active death aid and pain relief at the end of life raises very demanding ethical questions. Getting a good overview of the practices and consequences of legislation in other countries will facilitate a debate based on knowledge and experience. It will be important no matter what position you take on the questions. SV supports the proposal for a sample, but we are clear that it does not mean agreeing to introduce active death aid in Norway. SV, together with all the other parties, apart from the Progress Party, is involved in saying that we do not want active death aid in Norway now. After good cooperation within the Committee, all parties, including the government parties, vote for their own binding action plan on mitigation, which the government did not propose. Here there are many important solutions, such as: more user knowledge, less unworthy transport for the patient in the final phase of life and that fewer people will have to die alone, even under a pandemic. I'll take up the suggestion from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e823	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e828	The message «Loving treatment and care – We're all going to die one day. But all the other days we're going to live" is an important message. And I am pleased that the government has made proposals for important measures to improve the palliation in Norway, and that the examination in the Committee has strengthened some of these important proposals. Relieving treatment and care is a complex field in which different parts of the healthcare system have their tasks. Volunteering contributes, and its relatives play an important role. All of these have roles we need, and knowledge that is important for good treatment and care. I would say, however, that it is important that a complex image of actors does not become a resting place for making changes, but that we constantly stretch to make cooperation better and for the benefit of patients. Health services are available for patients, and I hope that the health communities will contribute to even better cooperation between the different actors – for the benefit of patients. The care provided to sick and elderly people in Norway accounts for too much. This extremely important contribution is often invisible, and society probably forgets a little too often the burden of following parents, siblings or perhaps their own children through serious illness and into the final phase of life. It is important that there are good arrangements to ensure relief for relatives, so that they meet their needs and the possibility of being just themselves in new ways. Hospice philosophy is about taking care of the whole human being. The physical, mental, social, spiritual and existential needs must be met, even when one is seriously ill. The Christian People's Party has been a champion of the hospice philosophy for a long time, and in line with that, we fought funds for Lukas Hospice for the first time in 2019 to launch a test project in Malvik. I'm proud of that. We have continued to fight for funds for Lukas Hospice, and I know that this is promised in the budget negotiations that are now underway. I register that more people think we can distribute money in a cancellation message, but money comes as known in the budget. And it's a little special that the government is asked in a note to call up money, while neither the Workers' Party nor SV themselves have found room for this in their alternative budgets. After the Central Party's comments on this matter, I expect that we will at least see traces of the appropriations in the Centre Party's alternative budget. The Lukas Foundation is doing an important job, and the Christian People's Party is going to do its job so that they can do it in the years that come, too, for the patient, because it's the patient that needs to be involved. I am pleased that this important message will be followed up by an action plan, such as: may have plans for over-treatment at the end of life and cooperation and enhanced competence for spiritual needs. In an action plan, ambitions can be further clarified and a clearer picture of responsibilities and targets can be created. I am pleased that we are now focusing on the provision of palliative services, and I am pleased with many good measures that will help to improve and not least widen the supply in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e843	The government has provided Norway’s first comprehensive report on alleviating treatment and care. Death concerns us all. We're all gonna die once. And before we do that, most of us will experience losing people close to us. Nevertheless, death is a difficult topic for many. Most people know little about how their closest wants to die, and what they want for the final phase of life. In many cases it is too late to ask. Lack of transparency about death is a challenge in today's society. By talking about death, even before death is imminent, we can reflect around fundamental values and prepare ourselves and our relatives. They're our most important support players. The aim is that transparency about death can contribute to more participation and freedom of choice. The individual can then experience the highest possible quality of life in the final phase of life and the end of life in line with his own desires and values. Relieving treatment and care are becoming even more important in the years to come. The population is growing, and the proportion of older people is increasing. Medical progress makes more people live longer with the certainty that they will die. More and more will therefore need these services. Not everyone who needs it is offered relief and care today. The offer is usually given to people with cancer diagnosis. But the need for relief and care is independent of diagnosis. Many people should have an influence on what it is like to be in the final phase of life. Above all, seriously ill children and young people and their families should receive an organized and comprehensive offer to meet the full range of family needs. Many want more time at home. Some want to die at home. Our task is to facilitate this, for example. through the establishment of children’s palliative teams in hospitals. The government’s political platform clearly reflects the political will to strengthen relieving treatment and care. That is why we have now presented our own big message. The purpose of the notification is three-thirds. We will make death visible as part of life. We will help those who need it to have access to relief and care. And we want to facilitate the best possible quality of life and freedom of choice – the freedom to decide where you want to die, and whether you want to die at home. As a result of the notification, the government is taking more steps to strengthen the quality, capacity and competence of healthcare services. It's the individual human being who's going to define what's going to be valuable. Therefore, participation and freedom of choice must be central to the provision of relief and care. The question ‘What is important to you?’ is at least as important in this part of life as elsewhere. For this reason, the government will strengthen its work on prior calls in the health and care services. Systematic use of pre-consultation will help to clarify what is important for individuals, including in the final phase of life. Only then can we achieve the goal of the patient’s healthcare service — and a worthwhile end to life for more people. The government will investigate how more elderly people can have the opportunity to make electronic life tests and how the system can become better known to the population. The hope is that electronic life testaments can contribute to greater transparency and that several share their thoughts around death with their closest ones. The diversity of services contributes to increased freedom of choice. Therefore, the government has established a grant to relieve units operated according to the hospice philosophy. Voluntary and non-profit actors may apply for grants. The aim is to build up services that can be an important complement to the ordinary services. Such offers may be particularly important for seriously ill children and young people and their families. These are families who often have a strong need for relief and care. "We shall all die one day. But all the other days we shall live." Those are wise words of a late Swedish author. This is also the title of the Storing Message. This is also the starting point for a new, forward-looking effort in the area of relief and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e866	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e871	This is a big message that deals with palliation for life and for different diagnosis. And we have experienced that palliation for children has received great attention. There has been partly professional disagreement and also political disagreement. I want to bring out the children's palliative team. Proposals have been made for the earmarking of funds for their creation, and an entire committee supports their establishment. I was wondering if the Council of State could say anything about the status of the roll-out of children's palliative teams, which I consider to be the foundation wall of the offer to ensure equivalent services for seriously ill children and their families throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e878	That work is in progress in all health regions. The basic allocation to health regions was increased by 600 million in cooperation with the Progress Party in the context of the revised national budget. kr. In this context, there were also indications that some of these funds should be used to set up regional children’s palliative teams. This has been entrusted to health regions following the review of the revised budget and health regions have to report on this in the annual reporting for 2020. I have also met with the directors and directors of health regions that I expect them to follow up on the leadership given there by the government parties and the Progress Party in relation to the review of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e883	We have to keep track of that. We've been worried that this isn't going fast enough, and that you don't get this rolled out as desired. That is why the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, has promoted this proposal on the designation of these funds. I'm going to switch to a slightly different theme. Something that many people have been involved in here today, and on which a proposal has also been made, which we will come back to later in the debate, is about specialisation in palliation for doctors. I wondered if the Minister of Health could elaborate a little on how to imagine that this could be established as soon as possible to ensure that we have specialist competence for doctors in palliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e892	On the part of the government, we have supported that intention, and that's why the big news mentions that this is something we want to assess. So I see that the Storting wants to conclude today that this is going to happen, that it is going to establish such a specialty. I don't mind. We didn't say we'd figure it out if we didn't think it was a good idea. So that's what I expect becomes part of the debate and voting. We'll take care of it. It is only important for me to say that the way in which specialities are now established has changed, so this concept of ‘restructural speciality’ does not exist in today’s specialist structure. You just have to be aware of that is no longer a term used, but I can follow it up when the Storting has made its decisions. But that's not the most current issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e899	The message criticises one because one from the government's side is not sufficiently clear on the structure and organisation of the palliative work in the specialist services and in the municipalities, as the NOU said – that there should be a regional palliative centre in hospitals, there should be at least one palliative team in all local hospitals, and in the municipalities at least there should be palliative team, or palliative centre. So I also want concrete measures. I see that there are no earmarks in hospitals to establish this, nor are there any concrete measures to bring up palliative teams in the municipalities. After we've been given an answer to questions, there are only four palliative teams in the municipality of Norway today. What will the Council of State do to really build a structure in the palliative field of health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e904	In health regions, ear-marked drugs are very rarely used. There we use the mission documents, and then companies get general appropriations. In this context, they have been granted a grant indicating that some of this increase will be used for the establishment of palliative teams for children, and it has also been mandated in the mission paper. That means they have to report on that mission. This is the way we run the specialist health service on these questions. In terms of municipalities, we have no instruction against them, so there we depend on using other instruments. Of course, the most important tool is to strengthen the local government's economy, which we have done. The second is to put this into practice in terms of competence, and the state budget for 2020–2021 is, of course, the establishment of Competence Lift 2025, where there are a number of earmarked means of enhancing competence, which can also be used in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e911	In this setting, there is a proposal from the Progress Party and the SV to set up a selection to evaluate different practices and consequences for active death help. There are two parties that are now behind, but it could be thought that such a proposal will soon be able to get multiples in this room. I'd like to hear what the government council on behalf of the government will say about the theme of active death aid. This is not a part of the bulk message, but it has actually been part of the setting. I found it regrettable when it comes to life support and relief treatment, but that's the way it is, so I want a comment from the government council on the theme of active death aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e918	Active death help is not part of government's policy; that's why we've provided a big message where it's life help that's thematic. I fully agree with the representative that our goal is to contribute to a life-help that gives people a good follow-up, and to experience a great deal of freedom of choice and to be able to focus on their own values even in the final phase of life. Introducing active death care in Norway is something that I personally oppose, I believe it is contrary to many fundamental values both in our society and in health care. Active death aid is not part of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e923	It's all about the children's palliative team again. The minister said, when he answered the representative Toppe, that the hospitals were going to build the children's palliative team, that it is in the mission paper. But we know it's not in place. I'm talking to many of the parents who have children who need relief, who say it's not in place. Then I would like to ask: does the Minister of Health have control? How many palliative teams do we have in Norway now? Which healthcare companies have children’s palliative teams? I would like to know to be absolutely sure that the Minister of Health has control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e930	The mission of the health regions to set up children’s palliative teams was given in June of this year, and that is the task they will now report on at the time of the annual reporting for 2020. Then we'll get an overview of how the different regions have followed up that mission. Not very long ago I had a meeting with the health regions where I also underlined the importance that they followed up this mission. Once that report has been received, I will be able to answer the representative’s questions in a concrete way. Then you also have to understand that in the time we're in now, it's not that it's just pinching your fingers and establishing that kind of team. It'll take some time. But that assignment is given, and we get a report on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e937	It's just a question. I hear the minister has talked to regional health companies, that he has said that they need to build up children's palliative teams. But I asked, how many pediatric teams do we have in Norway? Hasn't the Minister of Health asked? That's a short, concrete question. Does the Minister for Health have control over how many child-care teams there are in the country now, before he gets a report at the end of the year? He can ask now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e942	Yes, I can ask, but I haven't asked, I've been told that one should establish that kind of team. When health regions report on that mission, we also get answers to the representative’s questions. If the representative wants a number or status of exactly this work here and now, the representative must almost ask it as a written question, he will get an answer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e947	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e954	This option allows you to enter free local health services, which is a comment from the Progress Party, as well as a note and a suggestion for active death help. I think it's sad that a setting is dominated by this when it's a matter of life help, and free choice in the last phase of life is at least away from what the Center Party stands for. We are going to create a lack of supply, but it is something other than what the Progress Party is now calling for. When it comes to active death help, it involves me, because we now see that there are more and more parties that will figure this out. SV is also involved in the proposal to drop a selection. For my part, I think it's totally superior that we have a society and a law that protects human dignity. Norwegian health professionals are currently negative to active death services. I thought we should feel safe and proud of that. I think it is extremely good that we in Norway have health professionals with such a strong ethical compass, and I think it is important for the trust in our healthcare system. It is also such that if we want to bring active death help, someone must also be obliged to take life. There's one side to this that no one talks about, at least very few. When we look at what is happening in other countries, the framework is always extended. In Belgium, there is no age limit anymore, and in the Netherlands, there is a limit of 12 years. It's not just illness in the last phase of life, serious illness, even mental disorders are now in court in some countries. I thought it was a frightening development, and I had hoped that one could still be clear about it. When it comes to specialty, I have a comment on it. The central part is completely behind the wording that is in the setting. He's been carefully evaluated, because that's what the trade union community wants. You don't want to have your own specialty because it's so important that a lot of different bodies can have the additional competence or the supplemental speciality that gives it the status of its own specialty. But we're going to evaluate whether there's going to be a change in the second proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e965	Cicely Saunders said, "You matter because you are you." We'll do everything we can to help you. You live until you die. Cicely Saunders was a British doctor, nurse, and writer. She was important for starting the hospice movement and also central to getting palliative care into as part of modern medicine. When I pull her out, it's a signal that in the Right we like the hospice mindset, and that we're also concerned with palliative care and palliative team. It's supposed to be central. I share the commitment of the committee to deploy palliative teams around the country. It's a challenge. One of the major challenges is access to qualified personnel. The representatives Toppe and Moflag were concerned with the proposal of palliative medicine as a medical speciality. We are not within the scope of proposal No. 4 in the setting, but I have delivered a loose proposal, which I now want to promote, with a small change. I read the proposal as it now sounds, and I understand that the committee is behind it. It will then be replaced by the following: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of palliative medicine as a medical speciality, or speciality in addition, which provides for formalisation of the competence of palliative medicine with medical speciality status. The possibility of building on learning objectives/contents from different specialities shall be included in the establishment of the new speciality. As a result, clinical training positions must be established.»; Education positions are very important. I was last week visiting the hospital in Stavanger and their palliative department. They have about 30 employees and they say it's hard to reach people. But what they also say is that the most important thing they can do is to create security around palliation. For palliation, not only in hospitals, it is not just cancer patients, it is all kinds of patients in all parts of life — it is young, it is older — and the most important thing they do is to create security. If you are able to provide security for municipalities to manage this patient group better, more people will also get good help where they live. The right and the rest of the government parties also support the proposal for an action plan. It's needed. We need better cooperation. Now we've established a health community, but some of these patients are struggling because there's going to be a bit of a difficult interaction between the community and the hospital. There are reports of unfortunate patient transport and reports of patients who have to be hospitalised to receive fairly simple treatment. That's what we want to end up with. That is why we are in agreement with the proposal for a separate action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e981	The President then perceived that the representative of Sveinung Stensland has addressed an edited version of proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e986	I start with the last one, namely the proposal that the representative of Stensland has just referred to. I would like to inform you that both the Progress Party, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV will support the edited proposal and that we will draw up proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We believe it is a strength for the matter that we get a proposal that has a unanimous backing, and are optimistic considering that the Minister of Health is following this up and taking with him the clear signal that came from the hearing that we want progress. It was one of the clear signals that came in the consultation from the professional communities and patient organisations, that there was no desire for a postponement in the form of further investigations, but that we go further here. I would also like to stress that it was important for us that the proposal was amended and that the word'restructuring speciality' is used in the text that is now on the table. We are familiar with the fact that add-on speciality is not part of the structure today, but this is the model you have in both Sweden and Denmark. So when you go on with this work, it's nice if you also hesitate to do it, even with the background of what was the original majority proposal in the vote, but also in the comments that result from it. So, when I first have the word and it looks like we might start approaching a rounding of the debate, I want to say a little bit more about what's going on in babysitting. That is something that affects us greatly when a child or a young person loses his or her life. And there's been a lot of commitment to this topic, whether it's been the creation of a children's hospice in Kristiansand or this by putting children's palliative team in place across the country. Through these weeks I have been given the opportunity to talk to parents who have lost their children. I've been visiting a home where the children's room really looks like a hospital room, full of medical equipment. I have been with the Advanced Home Hospital for children and have seen that children receive cellular poison treatment at home. I have been home to children who are struggling with the late effects of cancer. So I'm glad it's a unanimous committee that now points out that we need a better race for those kids who are transitioning from children to adults. Some people may be 16 years old, but some of them are 21. They must have the same good treatment throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e997	I disagree very much with Kjersti Toppe - the setting is not dominated by active death help; there is one minority proposal set up against a collective committee in very many other areas. I didn't mean to waste the big space. I have promoted the proposal from the Chair, as I have to do. It's the Center Party itself that draws up so that this becomes a debate. It's a little weird if you're sorry that it's part of the setting. The center party says they want diversity, but that diversity has to be just what they like themselves. 77 pst. Norway’s population is very positive in getting an investigation into active death services. I think maybe the Central Party should respect that this is an extremely important question for a lot of people in this country. Then it must be allowed for them to raise their voice and say that we need a little bit more knowledge. That's just what we're asking for. It's not about introducing anything. It is about getting answers to all the claims that are thrown into the debates. Many countries have had this for years. They've evaluated, they're sitting with statistics, they're sitting with knowledge. It would have been incredibly interesting for us to be able to have a debate at that level, instead of what we've been standing and stamping for the last 15 years and you just say no, no, no, but 77 pst. So Norway's population is saying yes. Again, this message is about putting a good end to life. The countries that have implemented active death aid have said that it is the most basic thing that needs to be put in place. You have to have the security of good care at the end of life, and that's what we're building up now. I would like to take the debate, but then the Central Party has to decide: do they want us to talk about it, or do they not want us to talk about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1007	I now take the floor first of all to say that the Left naturally supports the revised solution proposed by the representative of Stensland. But when I first stand here, one of the benefits of having lived for a few years is that you remember and can draw some historical lines. The first time I became acquainted with the term palliation, it was probably really about the Bærum case, which now goes more than 20 years back, and which ended up with the health director Anne Alvik withdrawing from his position after a report for active death aid to a doctor at Bærum hospital. This was really about relieving treatment, i.e. palliative treatment. That's how palliation came into my vocabulary. Then it was said from the medical environment after this stirring debate that Norwegian palliative treatment was put back ten years with the Bærum case. I think there's agreement, because palliation carries a lot of feelings, and when emotions get into medicine, it often becomes stagnation. I have had contact with doctors at the Hospital in Vestfold who are very concerned with palliative treatment and who have built up a strong professional environment linked to the hospital. They are now very concerned about the extent to which the construction of the hospices in Kristiansand and Malvik will go beyond the funding of the palliative teams that are now emerging around. We have addressed this with the Minister of Health – it is being addressed here and elsewhere – and I am pleased that the Minister of Health can now demand this at the very strongest. So there's no reason to believe that the palliative environments built around the country will suffer as a result of the funding of the hospices in Kristiansand and Malvik. But then, of course, these palliative teams have a recruitment page, and that's why I'm very happy that this proposal for a decision – which is about building up a specialty in palliative medicine – seems to be getting a majority. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1016	I would like to give the representative, Kari Kjöna Kjos, the right that the Committee's position is not very much affected by active death aid. I just want to point out that for us this is a big question, it's not something we take lightly. The committee was in the Netherlands last year, met with the authorities there and went, among other things. through statistics around this. I can only answer that for the Right Part, this is such an important question that we have raised it into our principal programme. It is clear after a longer debate in the party. We have had votes on it at the national meeting. So in the right we have had this debate. This is such a difficult question and requires so much respect that I think we should do something other than lingering about us with things and seeing in this debate. There are quite strong professionals who speak against it, and there are professionals who speak for it. The fact that you disagree with someone doesn't mean that a viewer. To me, it is a very strong signal when the Medical Association is opposed and the Medical Council is opposed. When I met this department at Stavanger Hospital last week, I asked if this was a big question. When a doctor can say that he has been working with palliation for 20 years, and that this has never been a topic for any patients, it's not that we're dealing with vision, we've just drawn a different conclusion. When it comes to voting against this investigation, the Council of State has explained it. There is something that is not current policy for us, and then there is no point in figuring it out. But I hope we can have a little more respect for each other's views on this matter, because I have full respect for the views of the representative Kjenaas Kjos and the Progress Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1025	The representative Kjersti Toppe has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1030	To the hospice and the fact that the priorities of hospice will not go beyond the supply of the public hospitals today: I think that one must distinguish between hospice for adults and the elderly and children's hospice. When it comes to children’s hospice, it is clear in the NOU that experience from other countries shows that there is a need for a significant population base to run a children’s hospice, and that it is the countries that provide large numbers of families in the neighbourhood. That's why we in the Center Party think that there's a difference between ringing funds or wanting to have Lukas Hospice in Malvik and creating a children's hospice in Kristiansand, which will clearly go beyond the public supply, as the Center Party at least considers it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1035	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1052	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1065	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. There's a shared position being presented today, and I want to talk on behalf of the majority. We are currently examining changes in health professionals' law as well as the creation of incorrect technical legal references in various laws. The Government proposes amendments to the Health Care Professional Act to facilitate access to information for health care quality assurance or for personal learning. Health professionals who have previously taken part in a patient’s studies or treatment may, for their own learning or quality assurance of health care, need to familiarise themselves with the patient’s history. This will typically apply where health professionals want to know if the assessments and measures taken were correct. It is a good thing for patients that health professionals will still learn and quality assurance their assessments. The case has been at the hearing, and the ministry has received 75 hearing replies, which I have read. The majority of these were positive to the proposal. I then turn to the Labour Party's comments and resolve proposals in the matter. We note the concerns that have come in from, among other things. Mental Health, if possible snooping in journals, and that information can be balanced. These are of course serious concerns, but we believe that trust in health professionals who look up for their own learning and quality assurance is high. The lookups are also traceable. However, in the light of these concerns, we are proposing today that patients be able to make a simple reservation for postings in their own medical records after treatment. We believe that this must be ensured for the individual patient. We hope to support this in today's treatment. Privacy is important for the Workers' Party, but I feel that this is important for the majority as well. I am therefore addressing the Labour Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1080	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1085	This is a case dealing with changes in the Health Care Professional Act which are intended to facilitate access by healthcare professionals to information for the quality assurance of health care or for their own learning. Health professionals may need to familiarise themselves with their own learning or quality assurance of health care. This type of information may be made available to healthcare professionals who have previously provided health care to the patient in a specific course of treatment, upon specific request. The fact that health professionals are still teaching and quality assurances is a good thing for patients. In the legislative amendment that we are discussing here today, the requirement that healthcare professionals should specifically request information about a patient has been removed. Health professionals shall then be able to make direct reference to their own learning or quality assurance records of previous patients. This reduces additional work for the individual in healthcare. The right has noticed that the vast majority of the hearing bodies have been in favour of the proposal, while some have been sceptical of the proposed changes. Those who have been skeptical point in particular to concerns about privacy and the possible weakening of their confidence in healthcare. For the right, it is important to stress that all referrals in the patient records must be well-managed in terms of privacy considerations. It must also be possible for this amendment to reserve itself against allowing health professionals and businesses to make subsequent searches in the individual’s records. All in all, this is a good legislative proposal from the government, which increases the ability of healthcare professionals to learn or quality assurance of patient treatment. There have been some so-called loose proposals for the amendment – the proposals No. 3 and 4 by the Labour Party and proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The right is not going to go into any of these proposals from the Labour Party and the Centre, respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1100	The promotion party supports this proposition from the government because it is important to provide health professionals with the opportunity to learn from their own assessments and choices. In retrospect, the need to find out whether the healthcare provided was important to the patient may have arisen as a result of medical care provided by a healthcare professional, either acutely or on a planned basis. Access to such information must be made easier, without prejudice to privacy. Of course, patients must still have the opportunity to reserve themselves against having health professionals or health businesses make subsequent searches in the individual’s file, and the Progress Party assumes that the government is handling it in a good way. The Progress Party therefore supports the proposition as it exists and does not support any of the proposals that have been promoted today. It is also unnecessary to ask the government to initiate an follow-up evaluation, as proposed by the Workers' Party, and of course the government will follow up on how these legislative changes are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1107	The Government proposes to amend Section 29(c) of health professionals. The centre party does not support that law change. In the last few days, the Storting Party has received letters from 16 users, relatives and stakeholder organisations, a centre of expertise and two experience consultants. They ask the Storting not to support the government's proposal. Unfortunately, things have gone under the radar of others. The organisations write that as long as patients are not asked if they are opposed to the fact that former health professionals who have been in a treatment course have access to the patient record, patients cannot make a reservation against this either. Thus, the possibility of reservation in the new legal text falls on its own. They also pointed out that when health professionals, with the amendment of the law, can log in and search for what may be relevant for learning, or so-called quality assurance, they will also be able to read reliable, proportionate and highly confidential health information that they have nothing to do with. They write that this is critical, and that one may be at risk of weakening the health care professionals' objective, simply trust in health professionals and health services. This change cannot be supported by the Data Protection Supervisor. The Data Protection Authority believes that the proposal provides evidence that the starting point for the obligation to raise the issue is subject to too large a derogation. The supervision suggests that the proposal places a decisive emphasis on effectiveness, and that this is done at the cost of technical premises and system requirements to protect patient information. The Data Protection Authority writes that the proposal leaves the practical enforcement of the obligation to pay attention to the assessment and to the judgement of the individual healthcare professional. The supervision suggests that the proposal involves a radical change in the obligation of enterprises to facilitate compliance with the obligations of the parties and contributes to the proposal's conflict with Article 8 of the ECHR, which has led States to legislate for effective protection of privacy. The proposal involves changes that would be contrary to the basic principle of the Data Protection Regulation, the Patient Records Act and the fundamental concerns that lie behind the caregivers' obligations, i.e. according to the Data Protection Authority. The Data Protection Authority also believes that the proposal can seriously damage the trust that is needed between patients and healthcare services, and asks questions as to whether it will be possible to check the lawfulness of referrals at all. The proposal, according to the Data Protection Authority, does not address alternative and less invasive solutions in order to improve the effectiveness of access to information for learning and quality assurance purposes where necessary. It's this last center party that suggests that you look at solutions that make today's call less bureaucratic. I want to tell the Labour Party and the Advance Party that it's never too late to turn around. This amendment should never have taken place, respect for the integrity of patients and trust in the health care system. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1122	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1127	Trust in the health care system is alpha and omega. If those in need of help hide information, it's almost impossible to diagnose the patient. We then need good personal security and good privacy, so that everyone is sure that information does not leak out. The Data Protection Authority clearly states that privacy is not well established in this case. Then all the other parties should look at the matter again. Mental Health is concerned that the proposal may weaken confidence in the health care system. SV agrees with Mental Health. SV is concerned that the right to reserve will not be effective. The Nursing Association, the National Association for Public Health and, of course, the Data Protection Authority point out that the right of reservation must be effective, which is important. SV does not support the amendment of the law by the government and instead promotes a proposal that journal transparency should be less bureaucratic, together with the Senterpartiet. SV has been working for many years to ensure that information related to national security interests needs to be operated and stored in Norway. In the setting, only SV and the Central Party support it. It's sad for security, and it's sad for preparedness in Norway. SV votes to get less bureaucratic arrangements for journal transparency instead of changing the law as drastically as many of the other parties will. SV supports all three so-called solutions to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1144	The ability to learn at work is one of the most important things we have to develop, and to learn from what we do, we need to go back to previous decisions and see what kind of effect these have had. This possibility is also important for health professionals. They manage a lot of personal data, but I have faith that the healthcare system wants to do this in a good and proper way. It is equally important that we keep reminding ourselves of the sensitivity of personal data in the healthcare system, and I am glad that we are constantly working on improving the ICT security of the Norwegian healthcare system. There is currently a possibility for healthcare professionals to request information about patients they have previously treated, but a specific request must be made. Through the government's proposal for simplification, health professionals themselves must make assessments of whether the requirements of the Health Care Professional Act § 29(c) are met. I think this is going to be fine, but will stress the importance of patient rights and the protection of private information having to be clear on the agenda. The fact that potentially more people have access to patient information gives more responsibility to the healthcare system. When you have a responsibility, it's important to be aware of what it means, and that also applies here. It shall be possible for patients to reserve themselves against being applied for in the file, and this possibility must be perceived as real access. In order to contribute to that, I think it is important that it is regularly disclosed. The Christian People's Party supports the bill. We will follow developments and keep in mind the importance of privacy, how important it is for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1155	I am pleased that the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee has joined the government's bill on changes to the Health Care Act. Good health services require knowledge. The aim of the bill is to facilitate health professionals to learn from their past actions. The proposal implies that health professionals who have previously participated in the study or treatment of a patient may later become familiar with and clarify whether the assessments they made were correct and how the health care they provided affected the patient. The proposal is limited to healthcare professionals authorised or licensed under the Health Care Act. At present, healthcare professionals who wish to familiarise themselves with such information must specifically request this. The proposal implies that the request is omitted and that health professionals are able to assess for themselves whether the conditions for access are met. The need for information must be linked to a specific course of treatment and the aim must be either to ensure the quality of health care or to the learning of health professionals themselves. Simplification is likely to result in health professionals acquiring such information to a greater extent than before, and it is important to be aware that increased acquisition may be an intervention in the patient’s privacy. Nevertheless, my assessment is that the positive consequences for learning and patient safety exceed privacy. I have noticed that the Senterpartiet and SV do not support the government's proposal. I have also noticed a concern that the proposal may weaken confidence in the healthcare service. I would like to stress that the government takes the patient's need to experience confidence in healthcare in the utmost seriousness. Of course, patients should continue to be able to oppose the fact that information can be made available to health professionals. There is no change in the proposal here. The requirement to log the person who has seen the information and what information he or she has seen is also maintained. The proposal does not require information to be made available to health professionals. It is the individual activity that provides access to health professionals, which determines how access is to be provided. Healthcare professionals who do not have direct access to the file must continue to request the information to be made available. The controller may also limit the circle of persons to which the record should be directly accessible by means of access management. Strict access management can be particularly relevant for parts of the journal with particularly sensitive information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1178	I would like to draw the attention of the Council of States to a comitology note in the position of a Joint Committee, which then points out: ‘the importance of ensuring that all referrals in the patient records are properly protected in terms of privacy considerations. [[...]] It must also be possible for this amendment to reserve the right to apply to health professionals/enterprises for subsequent searches in the individual’s records.» There have been some loose suggestions in the room today that I experience being a little bit more detailed management of the conversation between healthcare professionals and patients. My question to the Council of State is how he intends to follow up this committee comment in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1190	This is, among other things, clearly in today's law and in the Patient and User Rights Act § 5-3 and the Health Personnel Act § 17. This gives the individual patient the right to reserve the right to have access to all or part of the patient’s information. One of the benefits of today’s digitisation in relation to this type of information is that it also becomes traceable who has been inside and seen. It also gives patients a unique opportunity to see for themselves which health professionals have been in and viewed their information, and thus also to control it for themselves. We see that has led to some revelations of snooping, which otherwise might not have been caught up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1195	Thank you for your answer. I'm still wondering a little bit about how we're going to make sure patients get noticed that this is a choice they can actively make themselves. Reserving that healthcare professionals can go back into the journal is something that a patient at some point has to actively think about. How does the Council of State intend to follow up on the fact that patients are made aware of the possibility of reserving?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1200	As the representative of Bruun-Gundersen is involved, it is important that we inform patients of these rights all the way. Here, too, it is a great advantage that patients now log in to healthnorge.no with their identity, because information and questions related to booking will come up. Then there are a lot of areas where patients have the opportunity to make reservations about transparency, participation in research, etc. So this is a whole new way of having a direct communication with the individual patient, who also makes the patient aware of his rights, where a former one was very dependent on knowing the rights and also would like to write letters and follow up every single institution in which one had been treated. Now you have a completely different possibility through your core journal and the access information that you have digitally. I want to encourage everyone to log in to their side of health Norway.com and get acquainted with the possibilities you have there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1205	In dealing with this matter, we have been contacted by many who are concerned about the changes that we are making today. Many also have a concern that they themselves are not so digitised and do not have the opportunity to go in and check in the same way that one might feel that we in society otherwise do when we have been to treatment and want to look up our own journal. Is it conceivable that in the future we will be able to see if health professionals have looked up in e.g. My Journal, that there are traces left when they may have read and used the experience that it has given me as a patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1210	Yes, it is today embedded as part of the EPJ standard. This means that patients and healthcare and those who control this have a completely different opportunity to check the transparency of the journal than before. Stories show that the journals were teachers at evening and night shifts around our hospitals at the time they were paper-based. It is no longer possible today because it will be registered immediately and the internal control system will also be able to capture it. And so is it that on the core journal one can now think of a service in terms of transparency in the core journal. One can get an SMS alert every time someone is inside one's own core file. So you get it up on your cell phone and you can go in and check out who this was. If you suddenly get a text message saying that someone has been in your own journal and that someone has not been in healthcare, it is a very clear indication that someone has been in and out. Then one can check it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1217	It has been discussed here today that one has used as a defense to introduce this change, that patients have the ability to make reservations, but they are not asked. It's not about active consent, it's about a general booking ability. We've received a lot of feedback, including in the setting of the hearing that was from the department, that the general reservation facility is not adequate, because there are too many patients who don't know about it. Both the Medical Association, the Data Protection Agency and the National Centre for the Competence of Experience in Mental Health state that health professionals need to be informed, because they are closest to patients. So I know that suggestions about it, both from the Center Party and the Labour Party, are probably going to be voiced down here today. What does the Council of State actually want people to know about their overall reservation capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1222	It's the general work we do all the time to inform patients about their rights. There I believe that we now have much more of this digitized now, giving a completely different and unique opportunity to reach individual patients about information. There is a lot more structured and transparent about your rights, including: on the reservation side. In my opinion, there has been a strengthening of the patient’s role through the digitisation of patient records that has occurred in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1227	I can't believe that the Council of State actually thinks that people today are well informed about the general way of reserving themselves against the fact that health professionals they've previously been away in can go into the journal. At least it's a different reality than I experience out there. The council said in a previous answer that one could go into Healthorge.no. Yes, I've been to Healthorge.no. So I don't understand how to get that information out of Healthorge.no today. I think that with all the criticisms that have come up against this proposal – the only thing that now hangs on – the possibility of reservation is better known as being a real right for patients. It's not today, and I want to ask the Council of State again: is it so that the digitisation of journals makes this become a general right that actually works for patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1234	This is a general right that applies, there's no doubt about it. It was not my message that I believe that all patients are informed about this today, and that this is good enough as there is. What was my point is that it is significantly better now than it has been before, precisely because one now has a completely different direct contact with the individual patient, and the individual patient has a much easier way of dealing with these questions than before. I think that patients who have previously exercised this right of reservation had to have a very strong understanding not only of what rights they have, but also of how they operate the rights, write letters, make contact, etc. Now this is much easier, but that doesn't mean I think it's good enough. That means that we have to work all the way to improve this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1242	Why wouldn't the Health Minister follow the advice of the Data Protection Authority or Mental Health? Can the Council of State answer as to why the government would not properly investigate the impact of data protection, as the Data Protection Authority has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1247	That's because we think we've figured out the consequences well enough and balanced them against each other. We believe that privacy concerns are well protected by the legislation we have in this area today, and that the purpose of this amendment – namely to ensure that health professionals are even more able to learn from their own experience in healthcare through access to information available to healthcare professionals – is important for patient safety and quality. This has been requested by the health professionals who like to meet patients in acute situations, and who will have the opportunity to just look at how their actions, their treatment, have contributed to the patient further. Then today's barrier for this is too high, and then it won't be done, and then there's too little learning of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1252	That's the line change. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1259	After today's debate, I am even more sure that it is right not to support the government's proposal to change health professionals. To the suggestions that have been made today, I have a brief comment. We suggest that a healthcare professional should inform the patient of the possibility of prior caregivers being able to obtain access to the journal and the possibility of reserving. I can't understand that this isn't going to get multiples today, because whole government business is based on patients actually getting to know about this. So to the suggestions of the Workers' Party. I understand that it is like a patch on the wound when the Workers' Party supports this bill, but fine enough. We are going to support the proposal No. 3 and 4, by the Labour Party, but in the case of proposal No. 3, I wonder what the Workers' Party actually suggests. [[...]] It says: ‘ Patients are asked if they oppose access to healthcare professionals who have been involved in a course of treatment [[...]] A follow-up evaluation of the practice is necessary in a way when one first enters and adopts this amendment, so we will support the proposal No. 3 and 4 and maintained our proposal, no. 5, plus what's in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1276	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1293	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1300	In the absence of the rapporteur, Mr Kjerkol, I shall keep the file. The Ministry of Health and Health proposes in the proposal changes to the Health Register Act and new organisational solutions to increase, simplify and ensure the availability of health information and other health data in the Health Register. The aim is to provide easier access to health data for use in statistics, health analysis, research, quality improvement, planning, governance and preparedness. The proposition is promoted by a unanimous committee, while a minority is promoting a proposal that I expect will explain. Health records are an important source of knowledge about health and disease in order to develop better services for the benefit of individuals. Today, this resource is not being used well enough. Access to information from the registers may be time- and resource-consuming. This applies in particular when it is necessary to link data from several registers. The challenges limit the ability to meet the purposes for which the information has been collected. Our goal is for the population to receive better and safer treatment and better health care. There is a need for more efficient management and administration of the service and more innovation and business development. The changes we are now agreeing to are requested. As early as 2015, the Labour Party promoted proposals in the Stortinget on measures to increase research benefits from national health registers and biobanks. There are great opportunities in Norway’s consistent health services, population studies and health records. The working party has been impatient for a long time to achieve a better interaction between health enterprises, universities, colleges and institutions responsible for national health records, as well as a necessary infrastructure that facilitates such interaction. The fact that the government is now proposing a national technical organisational solution for the provision of health data through the health analysis platform and the access function Health Data Service, we support, whether we believe it is particularly for the large population studies such as the Tromsø study and the HUNT, which remain important considerations before they land correctly. The health archive at Tynset is a success already after a year and has an interesting potential to accomplish more tasks in the future. The working party therefore also welcomes the fact that the Thinset and the health archive there, which have developed the relevant competence of the first line service in the Health Data Service, are being explored as the possible location for this function. The Labour Party supports loose proposal No. 2 from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1317	Proper use of health data offers many possibilities. It gives us the opportunity for better research. It can in turn provide us with better treatment, better knowledge base to drive prevention and more innovation in healthcare. Health data will also provide a good basis for creating new jobs and further developing the health industry in Norway. At present, health data need to be collected from different registers. Many people experience that it is disproportionately time- and resource-consuming to obtain information from these registers, and there is room for simplification. Therefore, proposals for changes to the Health Register Act are being made to facilitate access to health data for use in health analysis and research. However, easier access to such data does not mean that we compromise on privacy. A prerequisite for us to be able to use new technologies, and not least that we can also contribute to the development of new technologies, is that we, as people, are also confident that our privacy is well protected. It is therefore important for the Right to also stress that the privacy of these changes is well protected. In this respect, the legislative proposal does not extend access to health information and the protection of privacy has been assessed and protected in the legislative text. Health data are, as I said, important for better treatment, but not least the work done in many of the population-based health surveys is also important. This applies, for example: The HUNT study. The question of the health records to be made available on the health analysis platform shall be regulated in a separate regulation and shall also be sent out in consultation in the usual manner. Here I would like to point out that of course it will also apply to the relationship with SAMINOR. It may be appropriate to consult the Sameting in accordance with the guidelines already in place by the Government, but also by the Government Parties consider to vote in favour of resolving the proposal of the Central Party, No. 2, to consult the Sameting. We believe that it is according to the guidelines that the government already has to deal with, and that it will not create any further precedent. Finally, I would also like to comment on the location of the health data service. The government has a good tradition of moving state jobs out of Oslo. We're going to continue with the good tradition. It is also important for the government to make an in-depth assessment of different localisation options, and the majority of the Committee also indicates that Thinset can be one of several alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1330	In autumn 2013, the Right and Advance Party, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, postponed the construction of the Health Archives on Tynset. The reason we had to postpone the project was that there were huge costs – we had to reduce the costs, since unfortunately the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in a known style had designed and planned a health archive where there was no cost focus at all. We got a lot of criticism from the left when we exposed the project. But now they're all satisfied. We cut costs by several hundred million, we got established over 50 jobs, and we got a technically modern and forward-looking health archive instead of an out-of-date bunker, to say it that way, where it was planned to store tons of paper. As a result, we both saved taxpayers for money – a lot of money – and got a better health record by postponing and reviewing the project before we started construction. The health record is a success, as my colleague Mr Hagebakken also noted. A unique environment of expertise is established in research, health registry management, IT, health law and archives. It is logically correct and important that we see the changes that Stortinget is now going to make in the Health Register Act, and the establishment of Health Data Service in conjunction with existing professional environments and the Health Archive at Tynset. Businesses are good at taking out synergies to make their businesses more efficient. Here, there's a lot of public things to learn. Co-location of health data services with the Thinset health archive will undoubtedly bring great synergies – economically, but perhaps most importantly professionally – to researchers and others who need easier and safer access to the use of statistics in health analysis, research and quality improvement, planning, management and preparedness. The progress is clear that it is best to co-locate health data services with the Health archive. Fortunately, the Centre Party and SV are, too, but it is very disappointing to see that neither the government parties nor the Workers' Party see this obvious advantage of co-location, and that they do not want to participate in and support the proposal of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and SV. I think it's a pity that the Right, which I normally see as a wise, business-friendly party, which respects taxpayers' money, and with which we cooperate very well, is not involved in a co-location. I think it is even more alarming and disappointing to see that Tynsets and Hedmark Arbeiderparti's new great son, the representative Sandtrøen, completely fail in this matter. I do not doubt that the Sandtrøen inside sees the advantage of co-location of the Health Data Service and the Health Archive, but unfortunately he is not there and has not got his part of it. Otherwise, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party will vote against the resolution of the matter. And by doing so, I take up the joint proposals of the Progress Party, the SVs and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1347	The representative Tor André Johnsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1352	In this case, a common national organisational and technical solution for health data is proposed, where data for all national and regional population-based health surveys are to be made available. Yesterday, the committee received a letter from the assembly board. They wrote that the government has not followed up the consultation obligations in this case and that Sami courts and status have not been assessed or maintained in the work of the Health Register. The merger concerns the government's proposals, which could have consequences for ownership and management of data from Sami population surveys. They point to international conventions and the right of indigenous peoples to exercise control over the collection and access to analyses and interpretation of health-related data. They believe that such an exercise of control will not be possible with a national compilation and technical solution. Against this background, the Centre Party has presented a proposal today: ‘The government requests consultation of the Sameting before the regulation under Section 20 of the Health Register Act to regulate the health records to be made available in the health platform, with a view to reaching an agreement on ensuring the control of indigenous peoples’ collection, access to, analysis and interpretation of health-related data.’ I hope that this proposal can have multiples today – it would have meant a lot. In particular, the Central Party notes that a plan to permanently transfer data and competences from the Tromsø study and HUNT to the Health Data Service appears inappropriate. We do not support a transfer of ownership to so-called computer product and administrative responsibility to the Health Data Service for population surveys in general and believe that this must be done further. Then we are in a proposal together with the Progress Party and SV, which are mentioned, that Health Data Service should be established on Tynset and be co-located with Norwegian Health Archives. The legislative proposal suggests that the work on obtaining a derogation from the obligation to participate should be transferred from the regional Committees on Medical and Health Sciences to the Health Data Service. The centre party is sceptical about such a transfer of responsibility and indicates that the regional committees are currently interdisciplinary and currently the only ones with the competence to make such research-ethical assessments of applications for disclosure of data from the patient’s journal. The centre party is also concerned in this matter with the privacy challenges, such as: Data protection authorities have highlighted in their hearings that the presentation of data protection challenges is inadequate. In the bill there are many assurances from the government that the privacy of this change is better protected than before. And I would like to stress that the responsibility for maintaining privacy in the new solution proposed is now the government. With this, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1372	The representative Kjersti Toppe then drew up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1377	SV supports the law. We believe that Norwegian health records and health data services should be co-located. Therefore SV, together with the Progress Party and the Center Party, proposes to establish Health Data Service at Tynset. SV supports the central party's important proposal that the Sameting should be consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1384	Good health records provide an important basis for promoting health, improving the basis for research and improving our health and care services. There is little disagreement that the changes we are making today will provide both better and safer treatment and facilitate more innovation and industrial development. For the Left, privacy is important, and although the Ministry believes it is strengthened by the changes in the law, we need to monitor the impact of data protection on the health analysis platform for the individual. It is obvious that data subjects have rights to be protected and that we have the Data Protection Regulation and the Health Register Act to protect the data subject. In addition, it provides greater certainty that, in addition to being able to consent or reserve themselves against use, all will be able to easily see information about themselves, who has received it and what it has been used for. Such individual access provides security for the data subject. Privacy is important, but in addition to that, I will link some comments to Tynset. It says in the setting, and there have been repeated by several people here today, that Norwegian health records at Tynset are a success. We already saw that in 2015 – more than five years ago – in the left's crystal sphere, there is one. My predecessor, Ketil Kjenseth, said from this pulpit at the time that he saw several exciting collaborations in the interior, in addition to the establishment of the Health Archives. He pointed out that support and administrative functions could well lie outside the major cities. It is good to see that the reasons behind policy-making lead to further growth and innovation. That is the Left's policy in practice. It was not without pride that I was with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Culture of the Left during the opening in June last year. The left considers that Norwegian health archives and health data services can provide good synergies by locating them in the same location. There are many good reasons why health data services should also be added to Tynset. That is why I am pleased that both the government has a policy that skills jobs should be placed outside the big cities, and that the establishment of health data services at Tynset appears to be a very good alternative. When the Left does not support the minority's proposal here today, that the Storting should adopt the location of the Health Data Service on the Tynset here and now, it is a matter of ensuring that all such decisions on location should first be carried out a good, professional investigation of different alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1401	The government aims to make health data more accessible for research and health analysis. That is why we are proposing some important changes to the Health Register Act, and I am pleased that an overall Health and Care Committee joins the proposal. We have started work on building the health analysis platform. The proposal for amendments makes it possible to establish the platform as a national solution for the analysis of health data and provides the basis for new types of medical and health research. We can also establish health data services as a first-line service for access to and analysis of health data for researchers and other users. We also propose to simplify legislation by bringing together all the conditions for access to health data directly into the law. Today, these provisions are scattered in a number of different regulations. The Health Analysis Platform and Health Data Service will help to simplify and streamline the use of data from national health registries and other sources. At the same time, we need to strengthen privacy and information security. The need to provide sensitive data is reduced when the analysis can be carried out on the platform. Better transparency, consent and traceability solutions for the use of information shall be developed. This will increase the ability of data subjects to control and participate. The responsibility of the Health Analysis Platform and the Health Data Platform has been proposed to add an establishment in the Directorate of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The reason for this is privacy considerations. As regards the location of health data services, I can confirm that we are investigating different alternatives based on the guidelines for location of state workplaces. The thinning is one of the options considered. The government will decide the location when we have an investigation completed. The health data service and the health analysis platform shall be regulated by regulation. The health records to be included in the solution will be further assessed in the work on the regulation. I would also like to mention the proposal to turn today's pseudonymous prescription register into a directly identifiable medical record. This is an important change that will provide better opportunities for research into the efficacy of medicinal products. Better knowledge of such effects is essential in order to develop more accurate and personalized treatment. The amendment of the Health Register Act shall contribute to the promotion of health, the prevention of disease and harm and the development of good health and care services. With the consent of the Storting to these legislative changes, we have taken an important step towards making valuable health data more accessible to research and other purposes that will benefit the patient and the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1424	Norwegian health records are a valuable resource that Norway needs to manage wisely and safely on behalf of Norwegian patients. How will the Council of State ensure the further establishment of the Health Data Service within the framework of the majority in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1429	That work is well under way. Now this is in many ways an interim organisation under the Directorate for e-Health. When establishing health data service as a separate organisation, a decision will have to be made on, among other things. location, which several of the representatives have been involved in here. That work is also under way. The investigation is now ongoing, and I can confirm, as I said in my post, that Tynset is one of the relevant locations for this organisation. So there's full progress on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1434	The Council of State mentions in its article, and now here, the thin set especially, and we do so in the common note from the government parties and the Workers' Party. When it's formulated in such a way, at least with the goggles of a resident, there's a little bit more hope that there's something in it, that when a denominator it's specific, it's more than one of the options for this first line service. So do I have reason to live in hope? I would also like to say that we support the intention of the Central Party and the proposal that more people are making there, but we just want to do it in a little real way. A little optimism I want to have, and I hope that the Council of State can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1439	There is always reason for optimism, and the government would not have chosen Tynset as one of the locations if not also the government saw that there were benefits of co-location with the Norwegian health register at Tynset. There's an environment of expertise that's built up that has some parallel competence, and Tynset has proven that they've had the ability to recruit this kind of competence. So there are things that made Tynset a natural place to be evaluated, in line with other places that also have that kind of competence, like that. Bergen and Trondheim. So that's the relationship that's probably going to speak for and against the different places, but eventually we have to make an assessment. But I think it's an advantage, no matter what place we've chosen, that one in retrospect, when the election's taken, can't be attacked because one hasn't been chosen on the basis of a solid investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1444	I have a short follow-up. How much attention will be paid to the regional perspective? I heard Trondheim and Bergen was mentioned. It's great cities, but it's not exactly the same as Tynset in terms of the district perspective. How much attention will be paid when you see that you have had such success with what the Council of State describes, not least with the recruitment of very competent workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1449	It's one of the things that's being weighted. There are several factors that are weighted when making these investigations and assigning points. One of the issues highlighted is precisely district policy considerations and the importance of the introduction of more State competence jobs. This type of investigation weighs heavily, for one of the very aims of the scheme is that a site outside the capital area of this type of work should be explored. It's part of the government's policy to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1454	The Committee received a letter from the Swedish Consensus Council yesterday, where they wrote that the government has not followed up the consultation obligations in this matter, as Sametinget has not been briefed on changes to health records. They are concerned that the proposal will have implications for ownership and management of data from Sami population surveys. My question is whether the Council of State will be responsible for consultation now, before this is sent to the audience, as the Central Party has a proposal, and what the Council of State has to say to the Sameting, which is concerned that this will have consequences for Sami population surveys.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1461	I do not agree that we have not followed up the consultation obligation in connection with this bill, because this is general and – I believe – is not covered by it. However, in the next round, on which the representative was also involved, when deciding which records to enter into this, the regulation related to it, it may well be that one dealing with questions which would make it appropriate to consult the Sameting. I have nothing against what the Center Party takes up in its proposal, and it will be natural to do so when a goes into the typical individual registers that it is natural to have consultations with the Sameting about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1466	Thank you for that. I have a question that concerns the research ethics committees, or the Regional Committees for Medical and Health Sciences, which are opposed to the transfer that is taking place in this proposal. They think it's those who have the ethic of research to evaluate applications for the delivery of data from patients' records. The center party wrote that we agree with them in this. Now it's not going to be like that, but how will the Council of State secure the research-ethical competence of a new system? I think it's unlikely that it's important to last, and when there's an environment today that has experience and that's built up competence, there's a lot of height when this responsibility is about to be shifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1475	I agree that it is those who have this competence today, but it is fully possible to build that competence also in Health Data Service. It must be based on the experience of the regional committees today. The advantage of bringing this together in the Health Data Service will be to have a safer framework around it, that it will be a common national assessment. In any case, the different research projects will have their assessment related to research ethics, but it is important that that competence is also in the new unit to decide on the provision of data.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1481	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1486	There's nothing so funny as when you're a member of the People's Party and work for a cause and see that it really works in retrospect. It's the story of Norwegian health records, which it's very gratifying that all the representatives who have been up in the pulpit have been speaking for, representatives of all the parties in this debate. The establishment of Norwegian health archives at Tynset has shown that with both offensive local management and access to expertise, e.g. in IT, abroad, we can get to establishments that are actually unique, even in the world, because Norwegian health records are the first of their kind, with the preservation of patient records from all over Norway, from the country's hospitals and former patients. As stated in the setting, there is a rather large geographical impact field on employees at the Norwegian Health Archives today. From Rendalen, one of Norway's largest municipalities, South Norway's largest municipality to extent, and up to Trondelag with Røros, it is people who have their daily activities and who take care of journal information for the whole population. This is now the basis of the enthusiasm that emerges for the co-location of the first-line healthcare service and that they can benefit from the professionals who are already working at the Norwegian health archive at Tynset. It is not just Norwegian health archives that are a district policy success in Norway of that kind of establishment. In its time, the Brønnøsund registers were first a register of, among other things, who had rights to pledge in used cars, who later evolved into a national competence environment on IT registers and who are also world leaders in their fields and are an important part of state administration today. As a former rapporteur on Tynset, it is extraordinarily funny to see the work that local politicians are doing, among other things. in providing young people and young people with ICT apprenticeships in the municipality, now provides the recruitment basis for jobs which also benefit the country and all its inhabitants in Norway. This shows that politics is linked. The representative of Hagebakken, with both clarity and glimmer in his eye, found that this matter is going to land on the Stortinget in a positive and good way for the first line service of the Health Data Service, but also for a powerful district policy boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1501	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1518	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, the ratio of the two-way cord to the two-way cord is given up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time are given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1525	The direct settlement proposal implies that healthcare benefits under Chapter 5 of the Swedish Social Security Act are to be provided by and paid directly to the provider. This means that patients and others in need of help do not have to go out for treatment and then demand reimbursement of Helfo. The whole committee believes that the changes will make everyday life easier for those who need health care under the People's Security Act Chapter 5. It will also make management more efficient. Unfortunately, there has been an error in the comment in the Committee’s position on page 5 under the service provider chapter. It is stated in the fourth paragraph that three groups have exemptions from direct settlement. It is municipalities, logo-peders and audio-pedagogues, and service providers who have a monthly reimbursement income of less than NOK 40000. This is wrong. These three groups are subject to the direct settlement obligation and receive no form of exemption from that obligation. All persons who are to practise for the account of the social security must have a direct settlement and it will no longer be possible to send claims per paper, the memory pen, etc. Therefore, the correct thing shall be that these three groups are exempted from the general rule on the submission of a standardised notification with settlement requirements encrypted over safety networks. These three groups may prepare the settlement through a secure Helfo loading service. I hope with this clarification I can help clarify what is going on. The committee has received good input from the FFO and the Dental Association in the digital hearing we had. The entire Committee supports the amendment of the People's Rights Act in order to have direct settlement requirements. Now I have kept a case rapporteur's post, and I am drawing myself to a new post where I do the right thing for SV's position. I am promoting the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1542	Then the representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposal SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1547	This is a case that deals with changes to the Law on Public Security on direct settlement requirements. Most of them about 35 billion. kr provided in healthcare benefits under Chapter 5 of the Swedish Social Security Act are handled by direct settlement. Nevertheless, there is still a significant number of individual reimbursement requirements from users, which requires extensive manual treatment of reimbursement requirements. This work is time-consuming both for users and for administration. The proposal we are discussing here today implies that the service providers who will provide services for the benefit of social security under the Social Security Act Chapter 5 shall be obliged to have direct settlement, so that the user does not have to resort to treatment and then demand reimbursement of the Health Economy Administration, often abbreviated as Helfo. The right is pleased that a unanimous health and care committee supports the legislative amendments. The changes will create a significantly simpler everyday life for those in need of help, while helping to streamline management. It is important to stress that the proposal does not apply to parts of the Law on Social Security other than direct settlement and that the objective of the amendment is not to restrict the rights of users. A majority of the Committee considers that it is not the responsibility of the user to know which service providers have direct settlement, and thus wants providers to have a prior obligation to provide information before a possible reimbursement procedure starts. Right is not part of this majority. It is true that a patient with a bill change will not receive reimbursement if he or she uses a service provider without direct settlement. From the Right, we would therefore point out that healthcare professionals have a responsibility here and under the Health Care Act Section 6 should ensure that the health obligation does not impose on patients, health institutions, social security or any other unnecessary time loss or expense. This obligation also applies to the provision of healthcare to the individual patient. The same applies to dental practitioners and dental nurses, who have an independent regulatory obligation to assess whether a member has a condition that gives entitlement to social benefits. The proposal for the provision of information by the provider is a for-action measure for several fully private services which do not have a public contract. Therefore, the right does not support this proposal. Regardless of this, it is a good legislative proposal from the government that is being presented here today, which both cuts bureaucracy and simplifies the patient's everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1564	Chapter 5 of the Swedish Social Security Act applies to those who need different health services and applies, inter alia, to those who need different health services. pharmaceuticals, medical devices, private laboratories and x-ray institutions, dentistry, psychologist, physiotherapist and chiropractor. The Government has made a proposal for simplification to users by requiring service providers who wish to provide services for the account of the social security to have direct settlement. The reimbursement shall be fully managed between the service provider and Helfo. That's good. At the same time, it means that it is the responsibility of users to choose direct settlement service providers. It's not always as easy to be briefed in the law. Although it has always been that some service providers have to use the bill themselves, we do not think it is too much required that this is clearly stated by private individuals. By introducing full transparency requirements, we avoid unfortunate misunderstandings. Dental assistance is the largest subject area, which is also among the most time-consuming social welfare areas of the administration. Several users are assisted by dentists or dentists to apply for individual benefits. It is also within this area that I have personally experienced that most users say that they have not been informed that they could receive part of the treatment refunded. The Progress Party also supports and proposes that the government carry out a comprehensive review of the public health reimbursement system for dental treatment. We note that government parties believe that a comprehensive review of the different points of entry for dental treatment of all the population's concerns is both time-consuming and resource-intensive, and indicates that, among other things, it does. are 15 different points of entry for reimbursement regulated by regulation. It is precisely this which is the concern of the Progress Party. Many complain about lack of support for dental treatment, while in fact we spend quite a lot of money on this. Recent years have seen both the expansion of dental services and changes in existing legislation. All the time, dentists have thought that the arrangements are not accurate. We therefore believe that it is now absolutely necessary that we get a proper review. The less transparent an arrangement is, the more likely it is that it is not good. That this is considered an almost inconvenient task to go through is reason enough to actually do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1581	The centre party supports this issue. We think it's a very good thing, which leads to both simplification and savings in health care. We mean that getting duty to direct giving is something that is quite reasonable to impose. And then there's a bunch of things in the setting that I'm going to call, that the Center Party is in. We have done this even better by stating that it is the service provider who has an obligation to provide information to the user if the service provider has a direct statement – or especially if one does not have it, that responsibility should not be transferred to the patient and the user. What I think is an improvement on this amendment of the law. Then we've written in the settings about a concern about possible consequences for the dental services in the districts. This is also very detailed in the proposition, that this has been problematic in listening. It says in the proposal for a municipal survey of dental practitioners entitled to a dental refund. Based on this, the ministry believes that the risk of weakening the provision of district medical services is low, and that even in small municipalities, most dentists today send in the data directly via Norsk Healthnet. But this is our concern, because if the dental supply fails in the districts, it is a political responsibility to prevent such possible development. That is why we have put forward proposals there. ‘asks the government to follow-up evaluations on whether the amendment of the People’s Rights Act, with the introduction of direct settlement requirements, weakens dental services in district municipalities.’ [[...]] This proposal has been addressed. This is at least what we have especially to postpone on this matter. Otherwise, it's a very good thing from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1595	The bill that Stortinget has to deal with in this matter will make management more efficient and create a simpler everyday life for its citizens. The government is proposing changes to the Law on Public Security on direct settlement requirements. This means that the requirement for social security benefits under Chapter 5 of the Law on Social Security is to be provided by and paid directly to the provider or the processor. As a condition for entitlement to social benefits, it is proposed that the service provider have direct settlement. Furthermore, it is proposed to provide for the obligation to have a direct settlement for doctors who have a fixed contract with the municipality, physiotherapists who have an agreement with the municipality on operating grants, and medical and psychological specialists who have an agreement with a regional health company on operating grants. Such an obligation is proposed in the regulation on the social security disbursement of doctors, etc. The proposals have been consulted. The majority of the hearing bodies support the proposals. A few feel that the proposals weaken rights. It is a clear objective that this should not happen. The right to benefits is fixed, but you have to use service providers with direct settlement. Most service providers do. Some have pointed out that digital requirements are subject to significant costs. To that I will reply that we propose a free solution for service providers with reimbursement requirements below NOK 40000 per month. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously supports the Government's proposals. The majority of the Committee would like to see a review of the public health welfare systems for dental services. I agree with the need, but things have to be done in the right order. The size should first determine the priority criteria for dental care. The government aims to provide a prioritisation report in 2021, but the work has been influenced by the pandemic. Secondly, I think it is unfortunate if the review is confined to popular protection. A uniform review should also cover groups with rights under the Dental Services Act. The proper review proposed by the majority in the event of involvement of professional and user environments also requires significantly more time than the proposal submitted by the request decision. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of a functioning control and sanction regime. Reimbursement schemes in the public sector are trust-based, but the requirement for executives to submit reimbursement claims is very important. It makes it possible to forget that the treatment manager has the right to require reimbursement and appropriate competence to perform the treatment. Relieving on these requirements is to ease the control of the use of Community funds and to reduce patient safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1611	The Joint Organisation of disabled persons, the FFO, has requested the Committee to provide private service providers with information on whether or not they have direct settlement and what it involves and that it should not be the responsibility of the user. The FFO also sent solutions and advice to the government when the government submitted the matter. Why would the government and the Minister of Health not follow the advice of the FFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1616	We see that this is well taken care of. We are committed to ensuring that the proposal does not restrict the rights of users. At the same time, it is important that the measures are not too interventional for service providers, and that is what we have tried to balance in this matter. Of course, health authorities are responsible for informing the public about the change in the law, but this is also the responsibility of health professionals. Section 6 of the Health Act shall ensure that health care does not impose unnecessary time losses or expenses on patients, health institutions, social security or other unnecessary expenses. It also applies to this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1624	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1629	The government proposal is good, but it was a big problem. Many vulnerable patients could be affected by the government’s proposal, but the majority of the committee cleans up when the government’s proposal is not good for patients. The government's proposal was that users should choose which providers should have direct settlement. If patients chose faults, they had to pay off their own pockets. It could cost tens of thousands of dollars. Does the Council of State think that in 90 years Magda can check out which service providers have direct settlement or not? Does the Council of State think that those with language problems can search and find out which service providers have direct settlement? I don't think so. The FFO, which represents those with disabilities, suggests that it should not be the responsibility of users. It must be those who treat, who have to take responsibility for vulnerable users not having to pay out of their own pockets. I am proud that the majority of the Committee clearly states that responsibility should lie with the service provider, not the user. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and we in SV have worked well together, and the FFO's input gets a majority in this room. These parties took responsibility for the vulnerable patients. Thank you for your cooperation! The Committee also received important input from the Dental Association. There have been cases in which dental practitioners have received reimbursement claims for large sums for formal defects, even when it is agreed that patients have been granted their rights, that the State has paid out the correct sum, and that the scheme has not been abused. I'm worried that more dentists will leave the scheme if this continues. The same majority, other than government parties, will have an overall review of the system of reimbursement for dental treatment. We think the system should be simplified, which will lead to more dentists that can help those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1650	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1668	During the Korona period, there has been an extra focus on cooperation at the border and police work. This is a positive issue in which magnification and government can establish a single Norwegian-Swedish police station and thus contribute to better police cooperation between our neighbouring countries. There have been good plans over a long time to get this police station in place. In particular, a thorough work has been done from the municipality of Eidskog in Norway and the municipality of Eda in Sweden. The Swedish government, by Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg, is on its side, as mentioned in the inter-pellational text, aware that they want the police unit to be realised as quickly as possible. It is very important to have control of police cooperation in order to prevent, for example, the crossing of the border and smuggling of stolen goods. In the area between Karlstad and Oslo, there is a lot of traffic in a normal situation, and being able to address challenges at the root also saves resources throughout our country. The question is: can the Council of State now guarantee that the Norwegian-Swedish police station will be in place quickly, as the Stortinget suggests? This is a work where all parties are clear, except the Norwegian Government. Thus, everything is in place to achieve a successful establishment if we get a clear response from the Minister of Justice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1679	The question of establishing a common police station at Magnormoen has been going on for some time. In the review of the revised national budget, 5 million were allocated. kr to take the first step towards achieving a single unit at the border between Norway and Sweden. The majority of the Committee concluded that the unit was intended to be established through cooperation between Norwegian and Swedish authorities where expenditure is shared equally and where an equal number of police officers is distributed on both sides of the border. Other prerequisites for the creation of a border unit between Norway and Sweden are that municipalities on both sides of the border reregulate land for the purpose and that the new building is set up by a private entrepreneur. With these assumptions, the majority supported a proposal: ‘The government is asked to come back appropriately with a plan, including economic and administrative implications, to establish a joint police station with the Swedish police at Magnormoen. The costs for both the Swedish and Norwegian police must be incurred. The government is asked to cooperate with the Swedish authorities on the construction plan, arrangements for police cooperation and the allocation of costs.» As part of its efforts to return to the Stortinget on this issue, the Ministry has commissioned the Police Directorate to develop possible alternatives, including economic and administrative implications for the establishment of a joint police station with the Swedish police at Magnormoen. In the order for the directorate we asked for cooperation with the Swedish authorities on building alternatives, arrangements for police cooperation and cost sharing. We also asked for any legal issues to be identified, assessed and taken into account in the investigation. I expect the directorate's recommendation to be available for the summer, by 30 June 2021. The construction of a common police station will depend on some assumptions. This can be seen, inter alia, in: of the setting up of the Committee. There must be agreement with Sweden on such a station. It must include questions of design, manning, operation and costs. In addition, the establishment of such a station must have a clear legal basis. Any legal barriers must also be identified and addressed. I can assure the interpellant that we will come back to Stortinget with one thing as soon as we have received the necessary information from the Police Directorate. It is important to stress that police cooperation with Sweden is very good. There is good cross-border contact, and there is a desire to further develop that cooperation. When we are working on plans for a common police station at the border, it must be assumed that such a station will contribute to even better cooperation. The police must be given effective tools to prevent criminals from taking advantage of crossing the border between our two countries. A joint police station could make a good contribution to achieving such goals. In the time to come, I believe it is important that the Police Directorate takes the time to ensure that both Norwegian and Swedish police are clear on how such a station can strengthen cooperation, and that the agencies in our two countries are agreed on this. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is briefed that there is contact between the Directorate of Police and their Swedish colleagues on this issue and that the investigation is ongoing. For my part, I therefore await the directorate's assessment and recommendation and, in the light of the recommendations I am given, will see how we can best meet the assumption of getting back to Stortinget with a case in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1701	It's shown by the answer that some work has been done in recent times, and that's good, because here we need to keep going. The question that arises is whether further decisions from the Storting are needed in order to bring this case before the Court. In any case, for the purpose of Stortingen, it is – very clearly expressed by the European Parliament in the context of the review of the national budget – that this should be implemented quickly. It is also important to stress once again that the police station and the county office at Magnormoen must have real content. That's the job the police have to do, which is the most important thing, so I could imagine that the Minister of Justice could elaborate a little in a later article. The Minister of Justice has also received an invitation to Magnormoen, and I wonder if the Minister of Justice would like to make a visit – also to get acquainted with the plans that both the municipality of Eidskog and the municipality of Eda work with, including. that representative has been and has been heard. I was very, very convinced and not least impressed by the cooperation plans that exist for police work, and the municipalities that work so closely to realize a matter that will benefit our whole country and the security of our citizens throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1710	I do not believe that there is a need for further decisions in Stortinget at this time. A decision has been taken in the revised budget, money has been allocated, and resources and people have been allocated to do this work that is now under way. So it would be natural to come back to the Storting with further need for both decisions and resources when work is available, and there the deadline is set to 30 June. It is true that I have received an invitation. I'm very happy with all the invitations, and I'm trying to travel a lot around, but the Corona situation has limited that possibility pretty much. But my State Secretary had a digital meeting with the municipality a little week ago – I think, at least a short time ago – where they had a good dialogue, and where we updated the status seen from our side. In addition, there is contact between the Swedish and Norwegian police authorities about this work. The natural thing now is that we come back to it when we have a feedback from the police department's work, and then of course I'll go out when there's an opportunity for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1719	I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Sandrøen for raising a very important debate. It is nice to note that the Workers' Party has now finally woken up on this important matter, this police station on the border. I would like to say that Sandtrøen has actually given a good description of the need for the station, and I would say that the minister has largely also given a good answer. The establishment of the Swedish-Norwegian police station at Magnormoen, which is actually Norway's second largest border crossing, is something the Progress Party has been working for a very long time. I myself have been on the border and had meetings with Norwegian and Swedish police and Norwegian and Swedish politicians on this matter very, very many times. All the former Ministers of Justice of the Progress Party have been attending meetings at the Magnormo. Most of the members of the Progressive Party in Justice, including Himanshu Gulati, who is taking part in the debate today, has been at meetings on the Swedish border with Eda Municipality and Eidskog Municipality and Swedish and Norwegian police. We have all been very well explained and have been convinced that this is important, that we need to realise it, because a common Norwegian-Swedish police station will make Norway better equipped to fight international crime, a crime that we see is increasing. The criminals know no borders. There is no doubt that the police will be better equipped to take these criminals, and getting closer and better cooperation with the Swedish police will be positive in that context. The Joint Police Station will be internationally groundbreaking. It will not only contribute to improved security for Norway and border control for Norway, it will also help to improve the control of thieves and criminals leaving Norway. It is also important to clarify that this case is not important especially for Hedmark or Eidskog in isolation. It's important for the whole country, because most of the criminals that cross the border of the Magnormo, they're going to the Oslo area, they're going to Bergen, they're going to Trondheim, they're going to the big cities where there's a bigger market. There is a lot of drugs and a lot of different crime that is not left in Eidskog, for example, but goes further into the country. A little bit easier to say, if you spend a little more money on the border, you get it again many times in the fight against crime in other parts of the country. When Wara was Minister of Justice a few years ago, it was actually granted 1 million. kr for the planning of the police station. That money has been spent by the police in Norway very wisely, so there is no need for additional millions for consultants and investigations. There is no need to spend more money on the use of time and money by the police and other expensive, hired consultants to determine whether to build a police station, for as I understand it, three alternatives are now being considered: a zero option, that is, not being built, a half-way alternative and a proper alternative. I hope that the minister will give priority to what we all agree on, and that is to realize the police station. Then it is also important to remember that the police will not build and own this. It'll be either the municipalities or a private actor, so the police just have to rent. The Norwegian share will be approx. Ten million. kr. There are ten police officers, and the operating costs for it are 1 million. kr per person – that is a standard rule of thumb – per police officer. This is cheap. In fact, there is a half-price police station, where Norway has an important border station together with the Swedes, where costs are divided into two, since the Swedes have to take their share of the cost. Cheaper police station I don't think we can get. As much value for money as we get there, will definitely put Swedish commerce in a new light, to say it that way. There's a majority on the Stortinget, as Sandtrøen has also pointed out, to realize the police station. It's not just a majority to figure out, and possibly a zero option, it's a majority to get started and build. The Swedes are clear; they're just waiting for the Norwegian authorities. So there is no reason to postpone this important matter. So I'm very pleased that the minister has accelerated it by almost half a year compared to what was originally in the POD mission. That is positive, but I hope that the Minister will also look at the possibility of making a clear decision and speed it up even more than is currently the case. I have to say, now that we have control of the border, that every day the police are in place at the main border crossing points. They're doing a huge job to secure the border, they're doing a huge job to take care of the safety of Norwegian citizens, but it's sad to see that they only have a small trailer to work, to wreck or to pay for. There's a trailer on the wheels where they can go in and warm themselves a little when it's cold and sour, and maybe fry a pizza in a microwave. The facilities are very limited. It's e.g. Not do. There is no doubt that the police need better facilities. Remember, there are no legal obstacles that stand in the way. The police station shall be on the Norwegian side. So if there are some challenges that need to be resolved, it can be done well in the process – that you get a yes to plan and build, and then you can explore challenges along the way, while building, for the Norwegian police to sit in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1743	The summary of this debate is that it is a wise economy and security in practice to have permanent cooperation with the police at the border. It's about taking crime at the root and not necessarily having to let it go, for example. all the way to Oslo before the police get the opportunity to address the problems. As it has been expressed by the pulpit: there is a majority on the Grand Council to realize the police station, so a zero option is not at all in line with what the Grand Council wants. That is why it will be a good thing for the Minister of Justice to have this police station implemented and built, which is the first of its kind, and which is likely to be a great success, which other border areas will be able to look forward to in the future. That is why, of course, there is also a responsibility on the part of the representative Johnsen and his party now working on the budget negotiations to raise the Norwegian-Swedish police station high and further confirm the will of the spokesperson here to ensure that the police station is realised, and as quickly as possible. This can be a good common cause, and we take with us the up-to-date lessons from the Corona situation and help our entire country with better social economy and security in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1754	Just a few comments: I get the impression from the representative Johnsen that I came to a ready-made work in the Ministry of Justice on 24 January this year. That wasn't the situation. On the contrary, there was a letter from the Police Directorate last autumn informing the Police Directorate that due to many priority tasks, this project was due to some time pending clarification of other projects. We must believe that the current administration in the Ministry of Justice accepted, given that at least nothing had been done. It is not that there has been any training or outsourcing or unnecessary planning by my side, but it is necessary to do a job. It is true that in all state construction projects and state projects, we need to consider several options. Competition is good, competition is stronger. That is why we have started the work that – quite correctly – the Progress Party was put in place in the revised national budget in June. We are now working as fast as we can, and come back to Stortinget as soon as we have the necessary basis to make a decision on the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1761	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1780	Right at the main airport on Gardermoen, where millions of both foreign and domestic tourists pass every year, is the scene of some of the biggest brutalities that occurred in Norway during the war, and also the site of some of the largest German mass graves in Norway from the war. I am very grateful to the Defence Association of the Upper Roman Defence Association, not least to the Fire Company Knut Erling Skreeden, who has shown both myself and several representatives around the place and told stories about the individual ships that met their death in the Trandum Forest, about young soldiers in the 20s who sang patriotic songs and were shot to death right after they had finished this, and about British soldiers who came by with planes to join in what was to happen on the Rjukan, but who unfortunately were subjected to an air raid and after that rehabilitation in the hospital, only to be taken to the Trandum Forest to be executed. There's a lot of history in the Trandum Forest, also history that it's important that we don't forget, and that our coming generations too are being trained in. Just as Akershu's fortress has the status of a national monument and was also a place for executions, I hope you can do the same with the Trandum Forest. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has proposed 1 million. kr as a start-up grant to do this work and to advance an upgrade of facilities and other things that may belong to such work. We've done the same with Grini and the Museum of the Prison Camp at Grini, which is well going on, but where we would like to see something higher than that. There is also a great deal of consensus in the municipality, across party lines, that the Trandum Forest, with its historical significance, should be lifted. This is a place that's very central to, but there might still be little knowledge about it too many. We believe that this should be a place where it is natural that especially everyone who goes to school is included to learn about what happened in Norway during the war, and also to learn from mistakes in history that we obviously won't repeat. I look forward to the answer from the Council of State and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1791	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. It's important in theme, but it's also timely, all the time this year is 75 years since the liberation in 1945. This has led to increased attention to both memorials and markings in memory of those who sacrificed everything – to those who lost everything for us, those who gave everything for freedom. It has also drawn attention to those who felt most strongly the consequences of the war and occupation. At the same time, the Corona situation has led, for example, to: White buses that have taken young people to the continental eradication camp have been cancelled, which has also helped to increase our attention to local memory sites and local history. The memories of the failure of World War II have a double function. They remind us of what happened, and they remind us of the meaning this still has. So conveying the message about the values we hold high is more important than ever. Akershu's fortress here in Oslo is an important national symbol. The fortress represents 700 years of history: from time to time as a king's seat and defensive work – all the way to our days, as a burial place and the government's representation room. But first of all, World War II is particularly prominent in the symbolic landscape of the fortress. As a notorious prison and courthouse, the fortress symbolized the Nazi terror and the victims of the resistance. The image of the home frontman of the niggers, who takes over the attachment of the Nazis in tight uniform in May 1945, is a well-known symbol of the liberation, an image of a free Norway. We have erected monuments on the attachment since the release. In these days, a monument on Akershu's fortress rises above all those who have been in international operations after World War II. This will be an important expression of society’s gratitude and recognition to all those involved in international operations for Norway. At the same time, it will be a memorial to those who have died in the ministry. The Veteran Monument is scheduled for release and veteran day 8 May 2021. From the Union resolution in 1905, there was a plan for a national monument. The monument was to be a clear sign of the country's independence and independence, in line with the flag and the national anthem. The plans for honoring the Eigensvollsmen with a bauta did not come to an end, and in 1940 the war came. After World War II, they wanted to honor and remember those who gave their lives for Norway's sake. Therefore, the monument over the fallen Norwegian patriots was raised at the court of the fortress already on 8 May 1949. King Haakon said at the inauguration that the memorial should be over the 42 resistance people who were executed there. But first of all, it was to be a memorial of the fallen with unknown grave. That's how the courtroom was a symbolic grave site for all the resistors with uncertain graves. But no one is buried in the courtroom. When the monument at the courthouse was established, work was done on a national monument embracing all the Northmen who were victims of the atrocities of World War II. Everyone loses something in a war. Everyone needs something to reassemble. And on the 25th anniversary of the liberation, on May 8, 1970, Crown Prince Harald decoded the national monument for the victims of the war at the fortress. The place was chosen because it was best suited to receive all those who would attend the anniversary and the marking. The Trandum Forest has a central place in the Second World War report in Norway. The area has strong symbolic value and is an important memorial of the many who lost their lives here. There were 194 people executed in the Trandum Forest. It was the North, the Soviets and the British. They were executed because they refused to accept the Nazi social order. The dead were placed in mass graves where they were shot. The Nazis wanted no one to know the fate of the executed. Leaving relatives and communities in uncertainty was part of the terror. After the war, the mass graves were opened, and the executed ones were identified and moved. The Norwegian falsities were moved to their homes. The British and Soviet falcons were moved to Vestre graeflund in Oslo, where they still rest. In 1954, Crown Prince Olav unveiled a worthy memorial of those who were executed by the Nazis in the Trandum Forest, and the memorial stands there today. Both the ceremony site in the Trandum Forest, the area of the mass graves and the tankway just next to it was protected by the Riksantikvaren on 8 May this year. The war chariot course in the Trandum Forest acted as a noise damper during Nazi executions. The purpose of the rescue is to secure the courtroom and the tankway as an important national war memorial. The ceremony site was saved to preserve the area used in both official and unofficial memory markings of the failed ones. Trandum forest is a popular tourist area and open to the public. Peace has no impact on public accessibility. The memorial tomb and the memorial that are also protected by the code of war graves, cf. § 23 a. The Ministry of Culture grants permanent grants to Ullensaker Municipality through the grant scheme for the maintenance of foreign excavators. The municipality carries out maintenance and maintains the planting at the memorial. It can therefore be said that the Trandum Forest already has its national status. The whole area is protected by the Cultural Memory Act, and the memory park is protected by the Tomb Code and the War Tomb Code. This means that the mode of memory is peaced without a time limit, kept in claim and managed with the dignity of its peculiarity. Ullensaker Museum is part of the Museums of Akershus and receives operating grants from the Ministry of Culture. The museum is working on the dissemination of war history around the Trandum Forest and regularly arranges referrals for interested people. For the younger generations, the Ullensaker Museum implements a tenth-stage teaching scheme for students. The memorial place in the Trandum Forest is one of many places where we can remember and honor those who fell for freedom and peace during the occupation. They fell for something bigger than themselves. They fell for the nation of Norway. I am aware that Ullensaker municipality is working on the further development of the memorial site – the Trandum Forest was put in a complete framework, where Trandum clay and the labor camp for Soviet prisoners are also included. There is therefore reason to thank the municipality of Ullensaker for their work and for the positive attitude towards the peace decision of the Riksantikvaren. Not least, there is reason to be grateful for the follow-up that the municipality has of our common cultural heritage in the Trandum Forest. We support the work done in the Trandum Forest, but also work on other monuments. Remember, this is a country where we have a lot of memorials around. This summer I was at the Hopseidet and marked the execution of six civilians there. Three weeks ago, I was down in Moss and stripped of the seal of war there. We make memorials after World War II around the nation, and it's an important work. It's an important work because it's part of our collective memory, and it's an important work because we're going to remind the young people who come, that the peace and freedom we can enjoy today, didn't come for free. We're going to remind the young people that the peace and freedom we have today is something that has fought for, and we're going to hang up a little caution and say that it might have to fight for once in the future as well. But having several national memorials around me is a little bit more skeptical, just because we have a war story that extends along the coast. We have a war story that, to the most extent, is still alive in that part of Norway from which I come, with a whole state that was torn apart. We have a war story that is still in the consciousness of many families because of what they feel as wrong that has happened afterwards. We have a war story that is still known to the descendants of the Partisans, after the Sami borderless and after people who may feel that history is unfairly told after World War II. So the national memorial I think we're going to hold on to Akershu's fortification, and then we're going to use resources and forces to tell the story we have with us, around the memorial sites, also other places in Norway. I value a great deal of the work done in Ullensaker Municipality and in the Trandum Forest, and we must protect about the story of history and the communication there, so that we are sure that we will hand over to the next generation the important story and the important value choices that were made so that we can have it as well as we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1833	I want to start by thanking the Minister of Defense both for the post and for the visible and genuine commitment shown by the Council of State to the history of war and for all those who have contributed to the struggle for freedom for this country, and not least those who have to pay at the highest price you can pay. I would also like to thank both the Council of State, the Government and the real municipalities and all other official authorities in Norway for the way they honor those who took part in the war, and how they preserve and promote monuments and other important places from the war. As a former State Secretary, I also sometimes had the honor of being part of that kind of marking. I think it's an important part of both Norwegian tradition and culture and is a way to show that we don't forget what they've been through before us, and what price they've paid for the freedom we're still enjoying today. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good report on historical events, not least what those who met their death on the Trandum Forest, fought for, and what ideology they refused to submit to. The councils were inside White Buser. It is a great tradition, although it is somewhat disturbed by the Korona, that Norwegian youth travels down to Poland, Auschwitz and elsewhere and is trained in some of the dark chapters of our common European history. Our wish is to have as much focus on visiting the local sites of importance as the Trandum Forest. I feel that the Council of State and I agree mostly, and I also respect the argument that the status as a national monument should be reserved in the way it is done. But I think the municipality is still going to be in contact with the Ministry of Defence, the Stortinget and other authorities to see how, regardless of the formal status, how much has already been done with peace and other things, we can upgrade facilities and make sure that the Trandum Forest becomes a better place of communication in the future, not only for children and young people from the East and the rest of the country, but perhaps also for some of the tourists who use the Gardermoen as a gateway to Norway, and who may not be aware that such an important place, of both historical and national importance, is so practical. So I thank the Council of State for the commitment and for the answer, and I hope, even though the status of the site may not need to be upgraded to the national monument, that one nevertheless maintains a discussion and commitment in the future to upgrading the facilities for dissemination.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1846	Again: Thank you very much to the representative for a very good interpellation. I come from Finnmark, and Finnmark was released in the fall of 1944, so that we could make our mark last year, before the Coronapandemy met us. And even then it was striking – so I have grown up in the county – how many new stories came, how much new knowledge came on the table 75 years later. That's why I totally agree with the interpellant that this is an important story to tell, it's an important story to develop, it's an important story to convey. That's why we have to work on the memorials. So I think we're going to clear the titles, so that we don't risk desavuating anyone else, because a memory is probably just as important everywhere in Norway, and then we've kind of gathered about the royal power and the state power of Akershu's fastening. Again, thank you for a very good interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1853	That is when the debate is on case No. 12 done. The issues on today's maps have been debated, and the Stortinget takes a break. There will be a call to voting at 4 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1876	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting, and we vote first on the remaining issues from Thursday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1888	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 6, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 10, from Tellef Inge Mørland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 7, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8 and 9, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to build a State company, StatMed, which is responsible for the national self-production of medicinal products in Norway and for cooperating with the other pharmaceutical industry and the public health service on national development and the production of medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish R & D cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry, where public health services can access medicinal products at acceptable prices once the medicinal products have been developed in the light of publicly funded studies.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1933	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate broad Nordic cooperation on the production and storage of pharmaceuticals and infectious diseases equipment in the Nordic region.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1950	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 10, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate broad Nordic and European cooperation in the production and storage of medicinal products and infectious diseases equipment.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the provision of public tenders for medicinal products with which more than one provider can be agreed, in cases where this is considered appropriate, with a view to reducing the vulnerability of supply security.’;» The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1974	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the security of supply of critical medicinal products in Norway by dividing contracts published for the purchase of medicinal products into two, one of which is reserved for Norwegian operators. This in order to ensure emergency production.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e1992	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit a case to the Stortinget for the establishment of a national pharmaceutical company to stimulate Norwegian pharmaceutical and vaccine production, either on its own or in cooperation with the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry. The company must have capital to help strengthen both existing production capacity in Norway and stimulate new production capacity. It must also be able to establish long-term agreements in order to ensure both the import and national production of the necessary medicinal products.»; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2011	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all hospitals, both existing and new, have the space to establish local emergency stores.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the use of medical device emergency storage facilities and to promote the necessary proposals to ensure progress in this work.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that medical emergency stocks are financed outside normal operating budgets.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2059	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-8, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that decisions or regulations based on Section 4-1 of the Code of Disease Protection shall be of a limited duration of one month. If the decision or regulation is to be extended, the Government may adopt it and immediately promote the proposition to the Storting.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2088	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals to introduce a temporary parliamentary review of national measures based on the Code of Disease Protection.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to amend the Code of Disease Protection, which provides for the promotion, as soon as possible, of in-depth national measures, introduced under the law.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to amend the Code of Disease Protection which provide that the Storting may, by at least one third of the votes, at any time request that national measures introduced under the law be promoted as a proposition for the Storting.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals in order to legislate an obligation on the government to publish the professional basis, while at the same time implementing national decisions and regulations based on the Code, as long as it does not conflict with the security of the State or can cause serious social damage.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2122	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the second paragraph of Section 37 of the Administrative Act on Consultation applies to national decisions or regulations based on the Code of Disease Protection if it is timely. A period of consultation may be set at 24 hours.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2139	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for guidelines that ensure a practice in which the local government is involved and is responsible for municipal decisions introduced under § 4-1.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a practice in which decisions on particularly invasive national measures with significant societal implications, based on the IPD, are presented as a matter of urgency and for debate in the Stortinget.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2171	The Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2176	The Socialist Left Party shall vote in favour of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2181	The Socialist Left Party shall vote in favour? And the Center Party? – Then the president proposes that we go to voting, and then you vote as their party has thought. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2200	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2213	We then go over to vote on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2462	The President shall draw attention to the fact that the VI and VII of the setting shall be VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2472	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2483	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2495	During the debate, Mr Eide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative proposals to ensure drug users against reporting and criminal prosecution for their own user doses when they contact the authorities for help to themselves or others — a so-called ‘Good Samaritan Law’.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2523	I voted wrong! I should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2528	The result is that 80 voted in favour of the Committee's position and 6 voted in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left. – Thus the setting is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2568	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2718	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2728	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2740	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2761	A total of 12 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 11, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 12, from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, was changed during the debate and is now saying: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of palliative medicine as a medical speciality, or speciality in addition, which provides for the formalisation of competence in palliative medicine with medical speciality status. The possibility of building on learning objectives/contents from different specialities shall be included in the establishment of the new speciality. As a result, clinical training positions must be established.»; The President perceives that this proposal replaces the IV of the vote, which lapses. Furthermore, the President draws attention to the fact that the words ‘Annexed to the Protocol’ have been omitted in the recommendation V. There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how the public can offer more freedom of choice in the final phase of life within the offers used today throughout the country. This must include training, the need for delegated powers and resource enhancement.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2808	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the following recommendation in NOU 2017:16 On life and death, and not prioritizing funds for the creation of a children’s hospice in Norway, but instead ensuring the rapid construction of children’s palliative centres and ambulatory children’s palliative teams in all health regions in order to provide all seriously ill children with an offer at home or near where they live.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2825	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to draw up proposals for a new law on the system of freedom of choice, in accordance with the model of Sweden. The law shall ensure that the person granted public care services is able to choose the operator to perform the service.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2840	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a sample to look at practices and laws in other countries related to active death relief and pain relief at the end of life and the consequences of a law that gives more rights in the final phase of life.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2858	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote measures to develop the municipal palliative work and to ensure that all municipalities have their own palliative teams, possibly intercommunal teams, and to strengthen the role of the council in this work.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that full palliative centres are established in regional hospitals and that local hospitals have at least palliative teams.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that regional competence services are strengthened and given new tasks.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of children’s palliative teams in all regional hospitals in Norway and their financing through earmarked funds during a construction phase.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the provision of framework funding for continuing training in palliative care and nursing, and the development of several palliative master programmes for different professional groups.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the provision of vocational education within palliation and, at the same time, to strengthen intra-company training in order to stimulate the development of skills within palliation for both skilled and unskilled nursing and care professionals.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to establish its own research programme in the Research Council within palliation.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2908	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Right, Left, and Christian Party. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The government is asking for the evaluation of palliative medicine as its own medical speciality which provides for formalisation of the competence of palliative medicine with its own speciality status. The possibility of building on learning objectives/contents from different specialities shall be included in the investigation of the new speciality. As a result, clinical training positions must be established.»; The President has understood that all the other parties have joined this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2923	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2965	It is voted over only over II and III. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2979	It's over I and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e2997	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kjersti Tops on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No 5, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for healthcare professionals to inform patients of the possibility of prior caregivers having access to their records and the possibility of reserving.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3026	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that searching the patient records for relevant and necessary health information is traceable and that patients are asked whether they oppose access to the patient record by healthcare professionals who have been in a treatment course.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to initiate a follow-up evaluation of the practice of searching in patient records.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3052	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3057	The result is 45 votes against and 42 votes in favour. And the proposal is not blithe. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide measures that may help to reduce the administrative burden of requests for journal access to former patients’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that information related to national security interests is operated and stored in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3185	It's going to add up to I and VI. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3199	It is then voted over II-V.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3210	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3224	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3236	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish Health Data Service at Tynset and to co-locate Health Data Service with Norwegian Health Archive.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3260	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests consultation of the Sameting before the regulation under Section 20 of the Health Register Act to regulate the health records to be made available in the health platform, with a view to reaching an agreement on ensuring the control of indigenous peoples’ collection, access to, analysis and interpretation of health-related data.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3281	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3286	Then the result becomes 71 votes in favour and 14 votes against the proposal. The proposal is therefore a welcome one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3291	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3574	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3584	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3596	During the debate, Mr Wilkinsom presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up evaluations on whether the amendment of the People’s Security Act, with the introduction of direct settlement requirements, weakens dental services in district municipalities.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3662	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3672	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3686	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3698	Case No. 11 and 12 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-17.ana.ud476e3751	So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
