ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e51	Representatives of Nils Aage Jagstad, Nina Sandberg, Magne Rommetveit, Hanne Dyveke Sweets, Rigmor Aasrud, Ketil Kjenseth, Une Bastholm, Martin Henriksen and Sven Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate for Eastfold, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is now taking the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 12 and 13 February to attend meetings of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg by the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative of Mona Fagerås from 11 February onwards and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Northern Ireland: Kjell-Idar Juvik and Marius Meisfjord Jösevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e123	Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e134	The representative of Espen Barth Eide will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e139	We are living not only in a climate crisis but also in a natural crisis. On behalf of the representatives of Else-May Norderhus, Åsmund Aukrust and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for the appointment of a public natural risk committee. On behalf of the representatives of the representatives of Elsa-May Norderhus, Runar Seistad, Ruth Grung and Dag Terje Andersen, I am also pleased to present a proposal for a new provision in Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act on stock targets for wild game.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e146	The representative, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e151	On behalf of the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to extend the area access of the quotad king-fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e156	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e162	On behalf of Freddy André Hövstegård, Petter Eide and myself, I would like to make proposals to ensure that children who have been exposed to public failure have access to compensation regardless of the municipality in which they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e167	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e187	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e203	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e220	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e227	I will first of all be allowed to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. There has been a long and strenuous process and some turbulence in dealing with this matter, but the committee has fortunately been consulted with the case rapporteur, who has tried to deal with the matter in the best possible way. The reason why this has been a cumbersome and difficult matter is that it is about individuals who have lost their nutritional basis, who have lost their future say, who have been far down, and who have been waiting for compensation to make their lives go on. In the end, we have made it clear, through cooperation with the government, to arrive at a system of compensation that is very good, which is decent, and which will give fur farmers the opportunity to move forward, as I said. Putting down a profitable diet is not something the Progress Party has agreed to with a light heart. It is a heavy human burden to be deprived of the nutritional basis and to lose the possibility of continuing to operate until the next generation. What has been important to us has been to negotiate a solution that ensures farmers a good and decent compensation, and that gives them predictability in the incredibly difficult situation and process they are in. We're now sure of this. The totality we've come to an agreement with the government is a good arrangement, and I think – no, I'm absolutely sure – that it's better than the solution that was in the Innst. 141 S for 2019-2020. The reason is that the similarity between proposals is great, but the greatest difference that is worth noting is what goes on in time. We have managed to reach an agreement and a concrete understanding that will enable this to be implemented very quickly – and that has been important to us. There is also reason – although many may feel it is not in place – to give homage to the other opposition parties, who have helped to push forward such a good solution. There is no doubt that this has helped. But what I am all of, most grateful for, is the willingness of the government and the Council of State to cooperate in this matter. Although it has been heavy and tiring, it has been a pleasure to cooperate with the government and government parties in the matter. As I said, this is about the concern of individuals, and what has taken the lead most in the matter, has been to make sure that the fur farmers who have laid down, who operate and lay down, and who will have to put down, will have a system that will enable them to move on. They get that with this system, as I said, and I am incredibly happy about it. It has been important for the Progress Party, and not least for the government, to bring about such a system. I hope that the fur farmers can now start up again. Those who want to continue the period, do so, but those who want to start anew – start life again – hope that I will be satisfied and can do just that, that they can go home to their family and say: Now life goes on. With this, I would like to promote the proposals put forward by the Progress Party, together with the Government Parties, in this matter. I hope it will be a good and decent debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e244	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e249	This has become a very special day. Fortunately, for the fur farmers, it has been a good day, and I want to give all the fur farmers and the fur-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl-bowl. They have been opposed to a government proposal every day since 13 June 2019 which was totally unacceptable in view of a decent settlement of the ban imposed by the Stortinget. As early as last June, we could have clarified the principles contained in the proposals that have been promoted this morning, because the Workers' Party has been promoting – and was supported by the Centre Party – a proposal that deals with exactly the same thing in June last year. We could have already decided in Stortinget that the compensation scheme should be based on expropriational principles. You could have had a government that had developed a regulation based on it. One could – in the name of propriety – have handled a profession and a class properly. It didn't happen. Three-and-a-half years of frustration, despair and irritation have passed, where people, businessmen, have exposed their own economy in the hope that they will – let's say – be heard in a political majority for a decent settlement. Fortunately, they have succeeded, and I am delighted. But I would say that the process until today has been unworthy, especially for those who are in the industry, and who every day have certainly known about the frustration and despair. But now I'm going to leave it. I hope that the four proposals that have been put forward today will mean that the government will follow this up and compensate those who have also – probably one or maybe two – started the settlement, so that they will also get a settlement in line with this, and that we must not again experience that this industry is being exposed to a political game about what should be in these four proposals. Here it is now just talk about full compensation, as I read it, and as I hear the rapporteur also submit it. We're happy about that. I'm not going to go the debate much longer now, but I say that for later on we should think through that kind of unworthy processes should the Storting avoid. We should make sure that settlement is done in a decent and good way. There are too many who have suffered over time and who have met the despair. Now I really hope that the Minister of Agriculture during the day and the debate will clarify all the details of this, how to now work on implementing these four proposals, and how to provide full compensation – which has been the starting point for a very clear minority all the way through the treatment by the Storting of the ban on fur farming. I am very pleased that we have ended up with the principle that the Labour Party promoted last June is now actually being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e262	Finally, we got into port with a good deal! This has been a long process, and I understand that for those who have used their lives to build up an industry, the decision is that they have to put down, as a heavy burden. It's not the right policy to shut down any industries, nor the fur industry, but right now it's taken advantage of a lot of things, for example. more culture building, more to the police, more to the further training of teachers and a strong commitment to research and development. For this we had to accept that a party, even though it is small, wanted to produce the people's opinion into a large group in Norway and the meaning of the majority in this Chamber, namely that they want to eliminate the feeding of fur animals. Today's case is about compensation. There are several countries that have already abandoned fur animal feeding without providing any substitute for fur farmers. They have either been given a number of years to liquidate, or the legislation has been tightened so that it was not economically possible to continue. This is not the situation in Norway. The government has designed a thorough compensation scheme through several rounds. The compensation system was a majority decision by the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. Both the relationship to the Basic Law §§ 97 and 105 and to the European Convention on Human Rights were among the issues discussed in the Proposition. The majority decision said that the ban on the keeping of fur animals does not involve any form of expropriation and that therefore the fur farmers are not entitled to compensation under expropriation law, but that the decision was to be understood as a prohibition on a particular activity, after a given period of liquidation. The regulation which was drawn up consists, inter alia, of: of compensation for capital values, full recovery of costs of demolition and cleaning and, under detailed conditions, compensation for a lower age pension. In addition, there is a separate regime for means of conversion. I understand that this process has been very difficult for the fur farmers. They have naturally done everything they have been able to influence the result in a different direction than what was on the table – this without really having a clear answer to what the alternative was, other than full compensation. But what is full compensation? It has been difficult to get a clear answer. Therefore, it has been important to deal with this matter thoroughly. The right has followed the process of a new representative proposal carefully and has had close dialogue with the government. We have also followed closely the negotiations between the Government and the Progress Party. The right has always assumed that the scheme, as adopted last year, will be monitored, so that if it is found to be excessive, the scheme will be adjusted. The fact that the compensation mechanism is provided for by a regulation enables the government to make rapid adjustments in the event of an unreasonable outcome. I am pleased that we now have a proposal that allows the fur farmers to have a reasonable compensation for liquidation, and that we have not sent the fur farmers into another desertless trek, as it would have been if the Workers' Party and the Senter Party's proposal had received a majority. There are several of the fur farmers who want to start other activities, and that they can now get a quick settlement, have been important. We in the Right will follow closely the compensation system and ensure that the Storting's intention with the proposal presented today is followed up by the government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e283	Would the Storting really just leave honest people alone? Should we let them work with their animals? Should we allow them to earn income for themselves and for their families? Should we allow them to produce leather and sell it abroad, contribute export income to Norway, dispose of waste from the slaughterhouse and turn it into an attractive product? Should we just allow people to create jobs and contribute to employment throughout the country? Of course, the big crowd should leave these people alone. Instead, 200 families in Norway have experienced becoming pieces in an unworthy game to give Erna Solberg and Right power, to give Siv Jensen and the Progress Party power, and to give Christian People's Party and Left power. My advice is: what the Great One has done in this matter, they must never do again to people in Norway. When the conclusion on the food ban was clear, start the fight to run from the bill. In one of the world's richest states, a long process starts to fail to settle separately. But then only in the richest countries in the world can you spend a lot of money on cutting down on profitable industries. The centre party acknowledges that the fur animal nutrition is degraded. When the Right, the Advance Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party, the SV, the Green and Red Environmental Party want to vote in order to shut down the industry, that is the result. In today's debate, we will probably experience many people who are trying to wash their hands and who are trying to take the era. When the case spokesman says that it has been a pleasure to cooperate with the government in this matter, I don't believe in him, I don't think it has been a pleasure. I have spoken to the case spokesperson in this process. The representative Ebbesen is trying to present the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre as something that would send the fur farmers out on a jobless journey. Is that what we are going to use today – to describe the various suggestions? We made the best proposal based on the feedback we received from the government. It is clear that two opposition parties will put forward proposals other than a cooperation with the government party. The goal of both was that this regulation should be ready before summer. In the hiking hall, before the big meeting started, I heard the Minister of Agriculture say that her goal was that this scheme should be ready before summer. But now let's not spend the time on it. The centre party is about to support the current proposal. We think it's obvious that there is going to be full compensation, that it's not the farmers who are going to sit back with the bill. If it's 1 billion. SEK, 1.5 billion. kr or 2 brd. kr, is quite insignificant, for this was a decision that Erna Solberg and the majority in Stortinget took to get Left into the government. Then it's those who have to pay the bill, not the farmers around the country. I also want to thank the fur farmers who have made this a big deal. I think we have had a good organisation in Norway's Pet species, but I also want to raise Norway's Bondelag and NHO, which in this case has been very clear on what they think about the ban on nutrition. I am absolutely sure that if Erna Solberg had known how big this matter was, she would never have seen this process going on. She thought there were 150 farmers around the country: they run us over, it's a cheap price, we're willing to sacrifice them. But the cohesion of the countryside and the cohesion of agriculture had not Erna Solberg thought of, that she had not assessed. That's what we've labeled, and that's what made us there today. From the Center Party side, we're going to follow this very closely. We're going to follow very closely with the government, that she actually adds the credit and interprets this as what the case-speaker has said, that people should be financially harmless. It is Storting's will, and it is now the government's job to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e304	This is a very special case. The starting point was that a large number of Stortinget found that fur farming did not conform to good animal welfare. And it's not just something the Big thing has invented; we have it from the authorities we have in this area. One simply failed to bring fur animals into the animal welfare law, and that was the starting point for the ban. The SV's hold in this case is that we support the ban, and then we'll have a proper statement for those who are left after the ban has been introduced. In other words, we are critical of what our government has its proposals, what we have laid down in regulations. We have made our own suggestions on how to expand this system so that no one is seen in a difficult situation, and there should be no debt. People who have invested heavily in their property, in their facilities, are going to get a proper compensation, and we haven't seen that the government has added up. One has added up to a race where we've got flust with examples showing that this is going to be heavy for many farmers who don't have alternative needs for their facilities. There are especially people who are at the end of their career life, who have invested heavily, who are put in a very difficult situation. We've made suggestions for all of these different eventualities and have been voted down in Stortinget. What separates us from the Workers' Party and the Center Party is that we found it strange to draw this into an expropriation situation. Because according to Grundlova § 105, and after a legal assessment, this is not to be counted as an expropriation, and we think it has been a derailment. It is entirely possible to establish a good substitute for the prohibition without going into a discussion about expropriation. If we look at Grundlova § 105, it says about expropriation: «Requires the state's discretion that someone must give up his movable or immovable property for public use [[...]] That's not the case here. After all, no one has renounced their movable or immovable property for public use – and then one is going to get full compensation from the Treasury. We support that there should be full compensation, but when one links this to expropriation, one moves into a crazy, principled situation, where we expand the expropriation. Should it now be so that every time the state in different areas, for example: in the large green shift, introduces prohibitions of various kinds, it should be understood as expropriation? I have to say that the government in the principal area has led a completely correct argument. They say it quite explicitly: they have made their judgements, they have looked at various processes of expropriation in European courts, in our own courts, etc. - and found out that there is no expropriation here. What is special is that one today still makes a proposal that one should compensate as if it were an expropriation procedure. That is proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Furthermore, they come in proposal No. 5 in the same way: «professional valuations based on expropriation law rules». Thus, the government has also rooted itself into a difficult principleal hegemony. The explanation of vote from SV is that we support the government's proposals because it's the only way out of the situation we're currently in, where former fur breeders are going to get a proper statement. It's the only way out of this. But I think it's especially that one goes on a principle line that can have unintended consequences in many other areas of society. That is our clear explanation of vote. It would be good if we had managed to get the same content of reasoning, with full compensation, without moving into the principle of expropriation in this matter. We will also deal with our proposal, and then we shall vote in favour of the proposals from the Government Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e321	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has then taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e326	The left is satisfied with the breakthrough we received to wind up the fur industry by 2025 in the negotiations on the government platform with the other government parties on both Jeløya and Granavollen. Although the Left is in favour of a managed closure of the industry, of course we have sympathy with all parties involved in the decision. We have a strong understanding that migration is a difficult situation, and therefore we have always been concerned that the fur industry will receive a proper compensation as a result of the decision. The left is committed to the responsibility we have as politicians, by taking good care of the people affected by the policy we adopt at Stortinget. We believe that the fur farmers and not least their families deserve decent and fair compensation for having converted. We have said very clearly that the fur producers are going to receive an individual treatment. No fur farms are the same. When we exit a legitimate nutrition, we also have to give a generous compensation. That is why we are pleased that we have a majority of the government parties and the Progress Party that are taking responsibility today and giving the fur farmers a compensation based on agricultural taxing, as the Fur Animal Battle has wanted, and that the compensation is given as if it were an expropriation intervention, and that fur farmers provide a good opportunity to change, so that they can operate in a different industry. In addition to the compensation resulting from the agricultural tariff, fur farmers are provided with means of demolition and cleaning on farms. Those who have reached an age that makes it difficult to change receive an early retirement pension and are given the opportunity to continue other operations on the farm up to a certain amount even if you receive compensation. This we think is rust, but it's also quite right. The proposal Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party promotes, ensures good compensation to the fur farmers without further training of the process of terminating the industry. We in the Left are concerned with predictability in the process of the closure of fur animal nutrition. The last industry needs further uncertainty about compensation and time horizon. Those who have applied for compensation have had the matter suspended until a new model of the compensation scheme is in place. The proposal promoted by the Centre Party and the Labour Party today, however, we believe that it is irresponsible and promotes an unpredictability for the industry. I note that at least the Central Party has intended to put itself in a secondary position behind the proposals promoted by the Government Parties and the Advance Party, and then it may be a citizen for a broad consensus. It's a pleasure. The system of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party does not provide a higher compensation. The only contribution of the proposal is the training of the process itself, which will provide further uncertainty and unforeseeability. The fur industry, which is already in the process of closure and conversion, does not in any way serve the handling of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e343	The case of the closure of the fur industry with its compensation scheme has been demanding for the Christian People's Party. Let me first remind you that the issue of liquidation or continuation under a strict control regime has also been a subject of dispute in our party. When the Christian People's Party adopted its party program for the current ageing period at the 2017 national meeting, the continuation of fur animal nutrition under a strict control regime was adopted by a narrow majority. However, it has been the basis for our work in the first part of the ageing period. When the Christian People's Party national meeting in November 2018 gave a clear signal that the party leadership of the Christian People's Party would begin government negotiations with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, the Jeløya platform already existed with a negotiated agreement between these three parties to wind up the fur industry in Norway. We tried to renegotiate that position on the Granavolden, but without success. As a responsible party in the government, we have therefore been dealing with the Granavolden platform, which says that the fur animal industry should be discontinued, but that the fur animal producers should receive financial compensation for the loss of the right to drive fur animals. In January 2019, Olug took over Bollestad as Minister for Agriculture and Food. There was then a proposal from the then minority government to the regulation on a compensation scheme for fur farmers with a total framework of 365 million. kr, which was sent out at the hearing. When the bill on the ban on the keeping of fur animals was promoted to Stortinget in June 2019, there was an agreement between the four government parties to increase the framework to 505 million. kr. The main changes to the original draft regulation on compensation were that the State would cover all expenditure on the demolition and remediation of fur farms and that it would be provided with funds for a specific early retirement scheme for fur-bearing animals which cease to operate. It remains in the agreement currently concluded by the parties. The regulation was then sent to the hearing, and as a result of the hearings, the government decided that the overall compensation framework should be raised further, to about 850 million. kr. At the same time, it was emphasised that there was an estimate without any fixed upper frame. The main change after the consultation round was that it was opened so that minks could choose between offsetting from the book value and an elevated tispe supplement. It also opened up the early retirement scheme to allow for a limited amount of labour income in addition to the pension. So it's happened that the Progress Party has gone out of government. So the roles are replaced for our two parties. As an opposition party from the autumn of 2013, we have been able to put pressure on three ministers of agriculture and food from the Progress Party, both to move agricultural policy in our direction and to demand fresh money on the table when it really turned out. It happened in the summer of 2018, when the Christian People's Party clearly announced that the crop damage scheme would not be sufficient to cover the losses of the catastrophic drought that hit large parts of agriculture. We demanded an additional package of measures, and the then Minister of Agriculture and Food, Jon Georg Dale, dealt with the bulk of the population and delivered on behalf of the government in line with our order. So now we're going to have a final round on the totals for compensation for the fur farmer Stortinget to decide. Like former government councils of the Progress Party, the Minister of Agriculture and Food of the Christian People's Party, on behalf of the government, must negotiate on a case-by-case basis in order to form a majority in the Stortinget. On the basis of an overall assessment, where many different considerations have to be taken into account when a government budget is to be landed, we in the Christian People's Party have been dealing with the governance signals on the basis of which the majority government set a framework for the compensation scheme of approximately 850 million. kr as an estimate. In a new sentence, we are sincerely pleased that a good dialogue with the opposition party Progress Party has led to the proposal that we are in favour of today. The Christian People's Party has always wanted and worked for a compensation scheme that is reasonable for the fur farmers. It is not difficult to get into the situation that many people have experienced and the uncertainty that they have had to live with for a long time now. It is now time to concentrate on a system of compensation that provides predictability for operators in the industry. The Christian People's Party has low shoulders in terms of the negotiations we have now conducted with the Progress Party and that the framework has been increased. We will give tribute to the Progress Party for good dialogue with political leadership in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food over the past few weeks. We are sincerely pleased with the solution that the Storting will adopt later today, which means a significantly better compensation scheme for the fur farmers. What is a reasonable compensation scheme can be strongly divided. The fact that the scheme is now considerably strengthened does not make it less reasonable at any rate. What is important now is that we get predictability around implementation. The government has met with opposition and nourishment by providing other principles for the measurement of compensation. In such a situation, I will end by saying that yes, we can discuss, we can even argue about, this matter. For me today, it is primarily a sincere pleasure that we have landed something that is good for fur animal nutrition, which is the dominant feeling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e361	The fur animal business has been arduous for a long time. It has been demanding for the fur farmers, who have to stop the business, and it has been demanding for those who are around the industry. The closure of the fur industry was held in the Jeleya platform from 2018 and was continued in the Granavolden platform from 2019. There is also a majority of the opposition in this room to ban the husbandry of fur animals. The compensation scheme established after the closure of fur animal husbandry has been amended several times compared with that proposed when the proposal for a law prohibiting the keeping of fur animals was sent to the hearing in November 2018. The components were then liquidation periods up to 2025, economic compensation and means of conversion. The changes were made both during the legislative process in June 2019 and during the regulatory process in autumn 2019, where a cleaning, conversion and pension scheme was also included in this. In the examination of the prohibition, Stortinget was also aware that they wanted the government to comply closely with the compensation scheme and to adjust it if there was an unreasonable outcome of the compensation measurement in individual cases. I've always been clear that I wanted to do that. For the time being, a handful of applications for compensation have been received. This is how it is too early to have an image of whether there have been unreasonable results until now, because there are few who have applied. Now the government parties and the Progress Party on Stortinget have agreed on a different scheme from the one in force today. The majority want the government to establish a system based on the valuation of each fur animal plant on the basis of expropriational principles. This I will follow up. The other elements of the compensation scheme and the means of conversion are established. At the same time, I have to say that the Constitution does not mean that measurement must be based on expropriational principles, because, as SV's representative said, there is no expropriation. What happens is that a particular type of activity is prohibited, so that the keeping of fur animals is prohibited on premises where it has been kept in fur animals – and insofar also on all other properties in Norway. I want to speed up the work on changing the regulation as soon as possible to implement what the Storting asks for. The necessary regulatory changes must also be consulted, but my aim is for a new regulation to be adopted before the summer. Fur farmers need predictability. There appears to be strong support for compensation in accordance with expropriation law principles. I therefore hope that the matter can be landed in Stortinget today, because there are several fur farmers who have a difficult economic situation and who will need as soon as possible clarification. That's why it's important to me that we get a decision that enables us to meet those fur farmers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e381	On several occasions, the Minister of Agriculture has stressed how demanding this matter has been for various parties. I want to say back that this case has been demanding for only one party, and it is those who have been directly affected by the ban, and who have been very clearly set aside for a decent compensation scheme. But does the Council of State now — seen in the light of three quarters of a year’s history, frustration and despair of the many fur farmers who have been affected — mean that, in the light of what she now knows, what she has been doing, that there was a basis for doing things differently on 13 June 2019? Would it already be wise and correct – as the Workers' Party and the Centre proposed – to base this settlement on compensation according to expropriation principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e388	I first want to comment on what is going on: I am the first to say that it is the fur farmers and those around those who have experienced this as difficult. I've never explained that either. As for what should have been done first and last, I have observed that a compensation mechanism for compensation and time had been adopted. So it has been important for me all the way to be willing to change, because shutting down an industry has been a new situation – for both government and industry. I've been willing to change, I haven't put my honor in holding on to anything, because I wanted it to be the best possible. Today we have come to a change that I am convinced can provide a system that is good for the fur farmers – and I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e397	In view of her last conviction, she is also convinced that it would have been both right and wise to vote for what the Workers' Party and the Centre proposed on 13 June 2019, and one would have avoided all this frustration, despair and not least the uncertainty associated with it. One had not least saved himself too much work. So I'll interpret it your way. There are also others who are being affected: the food kitchen. Are there any thoughts about means of conversion for them in what the Minister of Agriculture now thinks? Others have said that it is quite demanding to switch from pet husbandry to other types of animal husbandry, for example, and that someone needs flexible arrangements. Is there something that the Minister of Agriculture will ensure will receive attention and, if necessary, will support if it is needed in the course of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e404	In this agreement, there is nothing about the feed kitchen for fur animals, but there are schemes that you can work for in other systems of regulation, in the feed kitchen. It is also important to say that there are situations where other industries need to change because an industry no longer exists. In the case of conversion, I would also like to say: Yes, there are fur farmers who experience that there is no possibility of conversion. I believe that we should be flexible in this respect, but we should use the instrument as best we can to get to systems that ensure optimal migration.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e411	I then interpret the Council of State as contributing positively in view of the situation of the various actors. The last question is that it is not finally designed, what is adopted in Stortinget. There are still principles that need to be established and developed and clarified. Will the Minister of Agriculture now ensure that she has a dialogue with and hears the industry when it comes to defining the last principles for establishing a decent and good compensation system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e418	Point 1: The first thing we have to do, is, as I said from the pulpit, is to make it easier to put the rule for this. Then you have to put forward the principles of taxiing. And then you have to do it on a professional basis – equal to taxing for each and every use. That's the starting point. I'm going to be in dialogue with the Storting – because it's important to me, it's those we have an agreement with – and make sure that we can get into a system that the fur farmers can also be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e423	The decision that Stortinget will make today does not say everything. There is room — it has to be implemented in practice. My starting point is: what kind of approach will the Council of State have to take to this work to be done? Is this what we have experienced now - a government that is trying to get the most out of the account? Or will the Council of State take a stand on the line that the President of the case raised, namely, that the objective is to find a system that makes the farmers financially harmless?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e430	I'm going to follow up on the four points that are in the proposal here. It's getting a new rule in place. It's getting a tax base in place that's professionally based. You have to have a taxiing company or people who have knowledge and experience to do so on the right basis. Then you have to take the valuation based on the principles that you apply now. I'm betting everything on doing this in such a way that even the fur farmers feel they're being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e435	One of the things that is important now when it starts to be a while since the prohibition was agreed – even if a person likes to talk about 2025, the reality is that there is a problem for many people to continue for so long, and many people have also quit – is getting replacements quickly. I actually have two questions relating to it. One applies to those currently running a process according to the current regulations. I would just like to confirm that they will now have the opportunity to be evaluated under the new legislation. The second is, how soon can any payments be made in accordance with this new regulation that will be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e441	Yes, when we take a new decision on the basis of which the fur industry is to be closed, the law is there in principle. We're going to make a new regulation change, and we're going to make it on other principles. So yes, those who have already been paid – they are not many, I said from the pulpit that it is a handful – will, of course, also get it on the basis that has now been adopted. At the same time, I want to do what I can to get to a system that allows us to pay it out as quickly as possible, because I know that very many fur farmers are struggling with the liquidity and have the demanding. Not least, it is demanding because it has been hanging over them for a ban to become, and this makes the circumstances surrounding their operation more difficult. So I'll do what I can to get it as early as possible, but right now I can't stand and promise. But I'll do what I can to get it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e448	I just have to give the government party some credit first because they've been stretching for a long time. This is an important step in the direction of getting a proper entry for those who are currently under the ban. The proposals that the Government Party plus the Advance Party has presented today, we support the substance in – and we have understood it so that they have been made during the night or evening or something like this, just before the treatment here. What we're looking at is re-use: ‘expropriational rules’. This means that a pointer to the laws on property ownership, which is the law that treats expropriation today – that one gives the feeling that it is within this law that this is to be treated. There's a big room for action and a big room for confusion, so we don't know how this lands at the end. But does the Council of State think that we should from now on treat this as a continuation of expropriation laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e455	If you go to the first arrangement, the one that was actually stencils for tispe supplement and book value: if you were just to increase the sum there, the bias would have increased because the stencils grew larger and larger. Then we saw that it could be very skew too many. Therefore, one would make this more distributed. Then the government saw that it was wise to school – or to do as we now say – to use expropriation principles for value-fixing precisely because it does not have to get out of hand. There must be a distribution that can be better achieved for each farm. This means that each farm use is now being taxed on the basis of a value-added tax based on expropriational principles. That's what we think fur farmers think is a good way to do it, and there's going to be a more distributed arrangement of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e460	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e467	In Storting, we have a great influence on how people's lives become, how the security of families is, and we decide what the future of many individuals will be like in the years that come. Like the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, the Workers' Party has been in favour of the overthrow, but for us it was crucial from the very beginning, when we began to deal with this matter, that we, as elected representatives, understood that it was people's lives that were going to be affected by the decision that was made. These are people who have worked a long life, who have set up installations and tried as best they can to contribute to their work. Even if one can agree or disagree with the resolution on winding up, for which the Workers' Party is, we have an extra responsibility, as we see it, to treat people properly. I have to say that it has surprised me that other parties that have also been in line with us in the main have overlooked the consequences that will greatly affect people. Because there is no contradiction between – let's say – accepting such a proposal and taking extra responsibility and understanding the seriousness of the matter. That is why this is a day of reflection – because if you go to the referendums and look at what was said during the debate in ours, you will easily find that the Workers' Party's view that this was an expropriation procedure was tried out in very strong order by the same parties who today say that this is a very sensible arrangement. It's a day of reflection because it's a historic decision. It became very clear when the consultation at Stortinget was conducted. For there is no parallel to the decision taken. As a result, in the Workers' Party we also realized that this must be taken into account in extra, in principle seriousness. It's a day of reflection, for what would the matter look like if any of the strongest capital forces in Norway got their properties rendered worthless? They would from day one demand one thing, and one thing alone: full compensation. And I have to say it has always surprised me that representatives from the Right, who call themselves a business party, didn't see that principle, because that's how we're going to do to others what we want them to do to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e480	This is in many ways a joyous day, I think I can dry it out. It's still the way to wind up fur animal nutrition is not Right-wing policy, but the situation has become that way, and then we have to make the best of it. As a farmer myself, I know something about the connection to and pride that is attached to running a farm. We put our honor in managing farm and land in a good way and leave it to the next generation better than it was when we took over ourselves. So when this sequence is broken without you choosing it yourself, it feels like a crisis. I want to thank the fur animal nutrition for the recording and for the way they have managed to cooperate. I know that this has been a very tough time with great uncertainty. It has been challenging for them as business actors and also for the families. I have met and received input from many in this matter and will especially attract some people. It is Øystein Storholm, from Oppdal, Martin Ishoel, also from Oppdal, Bjørn Berg, from Byneset, Knut Selbekk and Ole Iceland, from Agdenes, and Lars Ole Bjørnbet, from Orkdal. From the first meeting I had with these a year ago, at Oppdal, and until today, they've been on, and they've been playing us politicians good. For us it has been important now to find a solution, and it has been important for us in the Right to get the line set. Many fur farmers I have spoken to now have a desire to move on. It would have been irresponsible to pull this out further. It has been important for us to put in place a system that provides predictability, instead of starting new investigations and adding up to a new landfill treatment, as the Workers' Party and the Central Party's proposal had led to. It could take years. At the same time, we are pleased that we now have a solid majority, and that the Workers' Party and the Centre are also behind the proposals. I hope that we contribute to the hope of those who have to wind up their industry, that they can move on, and that they now see light in the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e493	I join those speakers who have expressed satisfaction with the result. At the same time, we have to note that what we have agreed on today, and as the Council of State will do so vigorously, was understood by listening to the Stortinget on 13 June 2019 was also Stortinget's opinion. I also have to say that, especially for the largest of the government parties, it has been a long way in coming out of a legal industry that until recently received a clear signal to continue. That's why it was also important for us at least to make sure that decent settlements were given because of the lukewarmness of policy, to say it like that. However, I have to say that there are some characteristics of this case that you can recognise from other cases, and that makes me not sure if this is a one-time case. This is a bad decision, but it is a notified accident. I want to say that in many things we see that it is not that understanding of business in our country that we should have in the governing bodies. There is too little interest in the impact of decisions taken in this room or in the administration under the government's responsibility on street level or on individual works and farms. However, I have to say that one of the reasons for this is that these political agreements, which are of course political craftsmanship, often lack the investigation that underlies the issues in which the Storting deals and makes decisions. What we need to be aware of is that in these agreements – this was the Jeløya agreement, where the consideration of the Left was weighty – there was little opening up to conclusions other than those that had been reached. It was then found that, as people report the effects of the decisions, it becomes clear that the basis on which decisions have been taken can be deficient. In all other matters, laws and far-reaching political decisions here in the Chamber, we have investigations, we have hearings, in a way that makes the quality of the decision of the Grand Council improve. I would also like to point that out in this matter, that we must learn about the weaknesses of the unexplained proposals, which are then a success in carrying through, almost against the will of the Stortinge. But I am very happy that we in this specific case seem to have come onto a correct track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e512	There is no doubt that this case has been both unworthy and demanding, and it would have been strictly unnecessary for us to stand here again now. But there is also an unpredictability that is created – not by the opposition, as an attempt to claim today, but by the government. This started with a proposal, a marriage, a morning gift, as it was said. Left plus Christian People's Party was true, so the Advance Party threw the cards – they escaped, they managed not to be in government. That's the background of the case. It is good that today's propriety has won, and it is also such that one had to ask oneself the question: Is today with Solberg in government or not? The Progress Party said this morning in Political Quarter that they would vote with the Labour Party and the Centre if they did not agree. This was a quarter to eight this morning. Then you didn't know yet whether you agreed. But then it was said that you would vote with the Workers' Party and the Center's Party if not. The question then is: could the Council of State Bollestad and the Council of State Solberg become a member of the Government if the Advance Party caused them such a loss in this Chamber? The proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party is in no way a desert hike. That's what made it possible for us now to get a consensus. That's what made it possible to push the government to the right. I just have to remind you that this is a proposal from the Central Party, it is not a matter of wish from the government. It's despite the wishes of the government. So I say again, I'm glad we get a solution, but the story has to be told right anyway. This has taken some time. It's been a long time. Some have put everything in the pot for penetration to secure themselves and their families a decent life on, without becoming indebted. Some have exposed themselves, their families, personal crises, anxiety, unrest. The personal has had to be public. Reports have been required because of the handling of this case. That responsibility will always be on the Council of State Bollestad and representatives Ebbesen, Skkelstad, Ørsal Johansen and Reiten. That's the way it is, because these reports have in any case been forced. It's cost. They should never have to do that. I take off my hat for them. But the dignity of these people has held in any case. It's for follow-up. They were supposed to have escaped, but the heroes in the case are only fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e525	Even today, when the Storing seems to be gathering to make a fairly worthwhile settlement for fur farmers, it is a rather interesting debate to follow. What has created unforeseeableness, which has been irresponsible here, is the decision to ban the husbandry of fur animals. The fact that some try to present the efforts of the Centre Party as anything but an effort to preserve the dignity of political decisions almost seems desperate. It is a desperate attempt to cover up the terrible decision on the first ban on nutrition in Norway history. The Constitution gives the right to food and nutrition. It's a prerequisite for our existence as a nation. There is something very fundamental about Norway as a country. We also have State investigation instructions, which say something about what basis must be in place before decisions are taken. The rounds we have had with compensation schemes show how little thoughtful and little work has been done. I'm startled by how little prepared this was by the government. We know the story. In 2017, the majority of the Stortinget wanted sustainable development for the fur animal industry. In 2018, the ban on nutrition was notified. The Progress Party directed the Ministry of Agriculture both these years. I understand that it has been demanding for the Minister of Agriculture from the Christian People's Party to take over in 2019, but it does not change the ban on nutrition. I understand that the Progress Party has wanted to clean up what they themselves have been able to do. The centre party is pleased that we have succeeded in improving the compensation by the majority in the Stortinge. We are pleased that presenting this proposal today has made a difference. We are pleased that the damage done to this food ban will be somewhat reduced. For those families and farmers, it was still – and still, as Tetzschner said so well – an accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e536	I had prepared another post for today, which I do not now agree with the proposals that were submitted today early, which seem to finally define what has been the will of the Storting all along. It's not hard to find words to characterize this process, but I'll be careful to say that this has been anything but a good process. It has been a frustrating matter to follow, but it has been frustrating, first and foremost, for all the families who were first told that they had lost their livelihood, and then were presented with repeated proposals for economic compensation that would send them into economic ruin. Principles have been used for the valuation of the fur zoos that have nothing to do with valuation, and an estimation of what this should represent has been cited, which is only a fraction of the values that the fur farmers have actually deposited in their farms. There is therefore reason to ask why it had to take so long to reach the conclusion that was delivered in the form of proposals from the government parties plus the Progress Party today early. The most important thing now is in any case that the unique message here in the hall is complete substitution. Furry farmers shall not be injured. Now, when the regulation comes back, in the light of the new decision, I take it almost too much that it will show that the time has passed for different creative curvatures to limit legal compensation, that the principle that is now being applied is just full compensation, and that the fur farmers should not be harmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e548	Today started with fur as a theme at Political Quarters – a theme that has been hotly debated in the last two years. When I went to Stortinget this morning, the negotiations were still in progress. Later today we were to vote on the matter. It has been one of the more exciting mornings at Stortinget – let me also say nervously. The right has always been clear that one did not want to shut down the industry, even though a majority of the population wanted it. However, over the last few rounds everything has been about compensation. Even those who wanted to welcome the industry have realized that the struggle to maintain it has been over. For Rogaland Right, this has been a matter that has put us on a hard test. The municipalities of Jären have been exposed through the process. Many of the fur farmers have their home there. It has been the heaviest thing for the fur farmers to stand in this process. For each fur farmer, it is regrettable that the process has taken so long, and I understand that there has been a heavy burden. I am therefore pleased that we can today put a sentence in the matter. In particular, I would like to thank Jan Ove Horpestad in Rogaland Pelstyralslag and Bertran Skadsem in Norway's Pelstyralslag for a good dialogue throughout this matter. The tone has always been respectful, even when the uncertainty has been the greatest in the matter. There has also been a good dialogue between representatives of fur farmers and local trustees in Rogaland Right, and the good dialogue has been appreciated by us. For Rogaland Right, this is an important day. I am pleased that the Advance Party has found together with the government parties in this matter, and that one ensures decent compensation for the fur farmers. For Rogaland Right, it's been an important principle that when a person first loses a business, a fair substitute. It's a business party. That's what it's all about. I am therefore pleased to be able to vote in favour of the agreement as it exists today, and that the process of securing compensation can now start too fully. Today we rejoice with the fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e561	First of all, like many others here today, I want to praise the fur farmers and their allies for their impatience and targeted work. But the result we see today, put far in. This work should have been crowned long ago and not have been answered in cryptic order. The result that is on the table today also includes means of conversion to the farmers. Then there is one party that is left in uncertainty. It's for those who run the feed kitchen. Conversion funds must also include feed producers. That's the party that now seems to be getting the worst way out. The employees of these companies, who are important in the circular economy, need funds for conversion to maintain jobs and take care of the values that, after all, lie in the raw materials used to produce feed. Enterprises have tried to promote their interests towards the Ministry and the Council of State, but have received vague feedback. No later than today, the Council of State refers to existing schemes. However, I expect that Council of State Bollestad will facilitate a good dialogue with feed producers – or rather with feed producers – and assist them with support schemes if they do not obtain support through already established support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e570	I am glad that there seems to be progress in this matter, which means that those who have been affected by an irresponsible policy, who were not thoughtful, who were not determined, but who were arbitrary, can get a fairer compensation than was due to it. We can go all the way back to the founding fathers behind us. There were eleven foundations that were laid down before writing the Constitution. One was the principle of nutrition. The decision taken in 2019 to shut down the fur industry is the first time that the principle of the free movement of a lawfully traded product in Norway has been violated since 1814. This is a big, fundamental issue, and what is so wonderful about the whole matter is that it is a violation of Norwegian tradition. In 2013, we set up a NOU committee, which went through the fur industry in a responsible and proper way, with the leading professionals, and they concluded that we had a solid and good fur nutrition in Norway, and a desire to have sustainable development. With that in mind, there was a big message that we had a thorough round here in Stortinget, and again Stortinget concluded that we wanted to have a sustainable development of Norwegian fur nutrition. It was a big crowd that did it. Then came the Jeleya platform, where Trine Skei Grande, Siv Jensen and Erna Solberg negotiate, and then they sacrifice the fur industry in a political compromise – overnight. It was referred to as the morning gift from Erna Solberg to Trine Skei Grande. It was a completely irresponsible policy, without investigation, that went across professional councils, across a Norwegian public investigation, across a big message. What was most incredible, in addition to the fact that, for the first time since 1814, you had to ban a nutrition for a legally traded product, was that you should not take the bill for it. It was an unheard-of treatment of skilled Norwegian professionals who have been involved in animal welfare, who have done their job every day. So the government – and it's been called a morning gift – says it won't take the bill for it either. That's why it's a happy day now if it actually turns out that the government is now beginning to listen to and listen to and see the people who have been affected by that policy. Erna Solberg should really go and apologize to all the families who have experienced uncertainty and insecurity for years because the government has not been willing to take the bill for its own irresponsibility. Because it has been irresponsible. It's been a violation of nutrition, it's a violation of private property, and one has not handled people properly. Honor be the representatives who have stood at the end. Although it is really strongly opposed to the shutting down of fur animal nutrition, it has finally been put to the end, which means that the families affected will have to cover their costs. This has not been a proud chapter of Norwegian policy, and I think that Trine Skei Grande, Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen should go in themselves and see how they could do it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e583	I just want to add a little comment to the representative Knag Fylkesnes from SV regarding expropriation and expropriation principles. As has been said earlier here, the reason why we've gone into it, is that we've now come up in a magnitude that makes it necessary, and that's going to be the fairest way to do it. When we use expropriation law leaders and principles for how to do this, it's because it's a very simple and easy way to do it. Here, there are clear and established leaderships about how a valuation and valuation should be done, instead of sitting and making new leads for this. The reason why we've done this is because it's simple and there's clear leads for it. So I said that I hoped this would be a decent debate, and I actually have the impression that it has been so far. But I just have to comment on a little thing that I really don't think belongs in this debate. This concerns the representative Myrseth, who said that the Progress Party is no longer able to sit in government. We were in government for six years and got a big breakthrough in that government. We had a good relationship and a good cooperation with all the parties in government, and we also had a good relationship with the opposition parties. We went out of government because of one thing, which was incompatible with what the Progress Party stands for. We had to put our foot down eventually, and then that was the way to do it. But we were able to make a change while we were in government, as opposed to the Workers' Party, which only sits and manages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e590	I must say that I think this debate has been a fine conclusion to a matter that has not been fine; it has been a cruel matter, a pointless matter. But I want to praise those who have stood by in this case, who have not given up, who have taken on the burden of showing family relationships, account books, disease conditions, etc. It has contributed to the fact that this has been a major political issue. When it comes to the need of the representative Ørsal Johansen to tell us about the ability of the Progress Party to sit in government or not, I am not going to go into it, but there is no doubt that the struggle that has been around the replacement of fur animals has contributed to weakening the government of Solberg significantly, and it is my speculation when I think it has contributed to the change in the composition of the government that we have seen. But what we've seen is politics at its worst. It has our promises, it has our press conferences with promises that have not been followed up. I think the tone is different now, and I expect very clearly that the government will follow this up, hear what the Storing says, and look at the decision that we're making. The debate is worthy and fine. Someone who's made a very small mistake, for example. to think it would have been worth spending time here talking about what is best of the government party and the proposals of the Progress Party or the Central Party and the Labour Party proposal. If they want to be so small, they have to be so small – they are so small that they can fit more of them in a fur cage. I don't think this debate will catch on, because this is about hard-working people. I hope that's the last time we have this debate in this room. I hope that's the last time we have rounds in Stortinget on nutrition bans. I hope many people have learned a lot from this case. And then I look forward to a decision being made today, that it will be followed up in line with the intention of the Greatness, and that in a few years' time one will look back and say that it was not the Judas that won; it was respect and morality that won, and that gave us a political plural decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e601	I hope that this debate will end all questions relating to the settlement of the fur farmers and the compensation they will have. I hope now that we avoid further processes, discussions and uncertainties related to what has been an entirely unsustainable situation. The representative Tetzschner is the one who may have said the most correct thing today. He said that the Storting's will as early as 13 June last year was what is now being adopted. What's just so bad is that the bulk of the population really couldn't do anything about it in three and a half years -- that's what's bad. When I hear the case rapporteur, Ørsal Johansen, argue for expropriational principles, even I get warm in my heart, because that's what we argued about three years ago. But then we were voted down in the Grand Chamber by the representatives of Ørsal Johansen, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party. That's the situation. So it's been three-quarters of years with unexplained relationships. The fact that some representatives in this debate – the representative Ebbesen, the representative Gimse, the representative Skkelstad – are also trying to question what has been the Workers' Party and, to the extent that the Central Party's approach to this matter from day one falls on its own unfairness. It shouldn't have been this pulpit at all worth using that kind of statement. See for yourself in the mirror and see what you did on June 13, 2019. Never forget the pain this has caused many people in three quarters of a year – until it is resolved. As I said, I hope this is the time when questions are settled and that the settlement can actually happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e612	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e631	I want to start by congratulating the Council of State on the important job as Minister of Finance. Although he has a long experience from the finance committee and government, I imagine that it's a lot new to get into. That's also partly why I have submitted this interpellation, because I think it might be a good opportunity for the Council of State to address a field that is both complex and demanding, but very important for the future financing of the welfare state. Today, the world's community loses hundreds of billions of dollars in lost tax revenues from multinational corporations every year. Tax revenues finance welfare services today and investments in future value creation. Everyone enjoys e.g. the investments made by taxpayers in rail, airports, hospitals, broadband, state of law and defence, both private individuals and businesses. These are things that you obviously can't buy separately. The development of complex corporate structures across several countries, the digitisation of the economy and new ways for a company or individuals to control other companies makes it more difficult than before for tax authorities to ensure that companies are properly taxed. This in turn leads to companies not competing on equal terms. We see examples of a small business as an independent store here in Oslo paying more in taxes to Norway than the giant Google. It is estimated that Norway is losing about 10 billion. DKK in tax revenue each year only because of the profit movements of companies. It is high-income countries that lose the largest income, but the consequences are highest in low-income countries, because the tax revenue lost is much higher in GDP. This is big sums. I am therefore pleased that an overall finance committee in the autumn underlined that ‘It is important that the tax system has great confidence in the population and is experienced fairly and fairly. Lack of confidence could undermine the willingness to contribute to the financing of public welfare tasks. If large, profitable companies pay significantly lower taxes than competitors and individuals, many will experience this as unfair. The same applies if multinational companies receive values from Norway with much lower taxation than Norwegian companies over time. The Committee therefore considers it important for both the sustainability of the welfare society and the confidence of the authorities and our common institutions to combat tax evasion and profit movements.» The principles underlying the current taxation of companies were developed at the beginning of the last century and are not adapted to today's digital economy. Large multinational companies have hard-to-reach value creation. At the same time, technology itself enables more tax planning. In addition, the tax evasion of individuals has been closely linked to the change in income of companies, because many of the money the super-rich ones hide away comes from the large profits they are left with as owners or shareholders of companies planning to minimise taxes. Both parts result in loss of tax revenue for national countries. In the future, the need for increased revenues and redistribution will increase. During the next decade, the large children’s coals from the post-war period will reach retirement age. Oil revenues fall annually. Public budgets may be under pressure if tax revenue falls and welfare expenditure increases. Immigration and technological development are also making new demands. Further growth and distribution require a continued strong welfare state, while increasing prosperity in recent years has also increased the expectations of welfare services. It is therefore essential to have a tax system that ensures income to finance the community in the future. There is a regular need to clean up the tax system. It is now time to better adapt legislation to current economic realities, where digital business models are far more important than before. Here, the income potential is much higher than what is demanded today. For the sake of fair competition and the need for a fair system in which everyone contributes according to their intention, it is important to provide for a system that is better adapted to today's economic reality. An example of this unfair competition is Facebook. In 2017, the company paid 0.5 per million of its tax turnover to Norway. The company Amazon is on the steps to establish itself in the Nordic region and then come to Norway. In 2017, Amazon paid zero dollars in federal taxes in the United States. Of a turnover of 206 billion In Europe, EUR 157 million was paid. kr in tax in 2016. There is obviously a broad consensus that taxing companies like this should be better. Internationally, therefore, several countries are now taking the lead in introducing their own taxes on digital activity. In the EU, several countries have introduced digital turnover taxes. The OECD is now proposing several changes to better tax companies like Google, Amazon and Facebook. At the same time, unfortunately, there is nothing yet to suggest that an adequate international solution will be in place with the first, and there is still a great need for each country to exploit its own space of action. I will not conclude until I have heard the Minister of Finance's reply here today. But I hope that he, among other things, will look at the need to press the OECD, explore a national space for action to make adjustments and changes to the Norwegian tax system to prevent tax revenue failure, as his predecessor suggested in the Class struggle earlier this year, and respond to when the bill on withholding tax on interest and royalties comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e659	I would first like to thank you for your warm congratulations. I also look forward to good cooperation with the entire Financial Committee. I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. The issue of international taxation and tax evasion is an important issue, and the interplay of the representative Kaski addresses several important issues. There has been a great deal of attention in recent years about the taxation of multinational companies and how such companies can achieve low taxation on parts of the profits. One of the reasons for this is that through tax planning they can exploit weaknesses in national and international legislation to move taxable profits from group companies in countries with a high tax rate to group companies in countries with low or no taxation of income. The Tax Committee pointed out in NOU 2014:13, Capital taxation in an international economy, that the transfer of profits out of Norway is a challenge in corporate taxation. Profit movements weaken the legitimacy of the tax system by allowing some companies to reduce their effective taxation at the expense of other taxpayers. They also pointed out that profit movements create an unfortunate distortion of competition by favouring companies that have the opportunity to adapt away from the high Norwegian corporate tax. The Government has followed up the proposals of the Tax Committee with several amendments to the Norwegian legislation. We have reduced the tax rate for companies from 27 to 22 pst. It reduces the incentive for profit movements. In addition, the rule of interest limitation and the concept of residence tightened in order to counteract adjustments. An exemption rule is introduced in the exemption method to prevent dividends from being tax-free if the distribution company has been deducted from dividends and the tax circumvention rule is recently legalised. It is important to make our national rules as effective as possible against profit movements and other forms of tax adjustment. We are therefore constantly working on assessing the legislation. As we have previously announced, the government intends to present proposals on withholding taxes on interest and royalty in a short time. Another issue relating to the taxation of companies operating in several countries is which countries tax the income. Under current international tax rules, physical presence is central to the taxation of companies active in several countries. The digitisation of the economy means that companies can increasingly operate a market without being physically present in the country market. It stresses the international rules on which countries should be able to tax revenue. Cross-border cooperation between tax authorities is a necessary prerequisite for ensuring the fair and equitable taxation of international businesses. Exchanges of information and administrative cooperation are also important to counter undesirable adaptations and tax evasions internationally. It is also important to prevent Norwegian taxpayers from hiding capital abroad and thus from taxing funds in Norway. The issues I have mentioned cannot be solved by national legislation alone. They include many countries and require international cooperation and solutions. We have had good results in recent years in international tax cooperation. The BEPS project of the OECD and the G20 has been important. Norway has been actively involved in this work, which is the most extensive tax cooperation in recent times. The project has reached agreement on a number of measures aimed at combating profit-moving and other tax-based ejaculation. The government has followed this up through several legislative changes in our national tax legislation. Another central part of the OECD-led tax cooperation is the exchange of information and administrative cooperation between tax authorities. Significant results have been achieved in this area in a relatively short period of time. The traditional banking secrecy does not currently constitute a significant obstacle for tax authorities. Information on deposits and other financial account information is exchanged annually with about 100 countries. In addition, we exchange country-by-country reports and binding ex-ante statements with many countries. Overall, these tax authorities provide a good basis for risk assessment and for the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance. The results of the BEPS project and the work on information exchange and administrative cooperation show that international tax cooperation works. As I mentioned at the outset, technological developments put pressure on the international rules on which countries should be able to tax income from companies. There is now work to find global solutions for the more efficient and fair taxation of multinational companies operating in several countries. The work is carried out in the G20 and the OECD Inclusive Framework, which is a cooperation body with nearly 140 member countries. The work consists of two parts, addressing the two issues I mentioned. The first part deals with changes in the rules on the distribution of tax rights between countries. The objective is to give the market country an increased right to tax part of the income of large multinational companies, even if the company is not physically present. The second part deals with rules to ensure that multinational companies are taxed above a certain minimum level. The purpose of this is to counteract the profit-moving and eroding of the tax base. The aim is to agree on a broad, common solution that can be presented to G20 countries by the end of 2020. This timetable was last confirmed by the Member States at a meeting on 29 and 30 January. Work is important to ensure the income of the community, but also in the interests of traditional companies facing a higher level of effective taxation. At the same time, several European countries have introduced or are planning to introduce temporary measures to tax multinational companies with digitised business models. These measures take the form of charges on the gross turnover of certain digital services. In general, such gross taxes will have a greater negative impact on trade, growth and investment than taxes on company profits. I would also like to mention that in the EU, efforts are concentrated on the work of the Inclusive Framework. It therefore appears that a common European turnover tax for digital services is not currently applicable. I believe that our primary objective must be to contribute in a good and constructive way to finding good international solutions. International solutions shall include, inter alia: to discourage the imposition of unilateral measures by individual countries. This is important in order to ensure a stable and sustainable system that provides for fair and effective taxation of multinational companies. If we do not succeed in reaching agreement, I believe that we need to consider the need for other measures to ensure that income and payment flows in multinational companies linked to Norway are not underestimated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e707	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Finance. I'm glad we shared the reality picture, I kept saying, about the challenges we're facing here. What still strikes me when I hear the Minister of Finance, is that he doesn't go all the way to the core of the challenge. For the experience of both the Norwegian government’s efforts in this area for several years now and the processes in progress in the EU and the OECD, it is always trying to close holes and patch them on a system that is designed in many ways for a different time and situation. The question arises as to whether we will really succeed in reaching an agreement that will be sufficient, when we see that we are both faced with quite large giants who have more lawyers than we want at any time, who can get away from the tax rules we have, and also more conflicts of interest within both the EU and the OECD. Some of the challenges with both the EU and the OECD are that there are several countries where both by definition are tax havens themselves, and which have some of these companies' head offices in place — large economic activity — and thus, of course, are opposed to stricter regulation and higher taxation of these companies. Therefore, a proposal from the OECD has now also been submitted, by which the OECD estimates that the effect will be limited. It'll be about -- at least based on what I've seen from the calculations that have been done -- 5 pst. the profit which will be taxed on the legislation under which the OECD is based. The question is then – if you manage to reach an agreement during this year, and it remains to be seen, there is still a ‘if’ – whether there is an agreement that you can continue to build on, so that it actually comes up to a level, a scale, that will have something to say for the financing of the welfare state in the future, or whether we have had a long-term process of achieving something that would at best give good tax revenue, but that really does not solve the challenge we are facing. That's why I think it's important, of course, to continue the international work here. We don't get out of some kind of international solution, but we also have to, I think, press on from the nation-states and go even further. We see that more and more countries do, and I wonder that we are not doing so in Norway yet, when so many other countries go ahead and do so, because it could have a positive effect on the OECD process, as well as that we still do not know what kind of consensus you come up with. Finally, I wonder if there is an investigation in the department about these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e718	Yes, it is a strength that we are very much in agreement with the problem description. It is very unfortunate that some multinational companies are reluctant to tax by using the legislation we have – or abuse. This is why it is important to put in place a new regulatory framework that is adapted to the business models we are now seeing develop and that is likely to be reinforced in the coming period. It is both a question of taxation law and a question of minimum levels. I do not think it is a lengthy process if it is such that one can agree during 2020, and as I said, this timetable was confirmed as late as 29 and 30 January. So the question is, when the representative Kaski says we have to press to go further, what's really in that statement. When it comes to implementing national measures that will actually act as a barrier to trade, I believe that this is not the way to go. If printing is about having a constructive role in the OECD and pressing for an international regulation that will ensure fairer taxation for the more traditional Norwegian companies and ensure taxation to the community, I think that is the right strategy. At the same time, of course, we need to consider other alternatives. And we do that -- both in terms of this problem, and in terms of other areas. Here, there is continuous work both in the ministry and in the underlying agencies, because we have the same objective – that it should be a fair tax to ensure the competitiveness of traditional Norwegian enterprises and, of course, also to secure funds for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e727	I want to start by thanking the interpellant to address a very important issue. She had a very good description of how it stands. The council also had a good description, I thought. In fact, there is broad agreement on this measure in the Chamber, but there are still many words, and one refers to action plans to come. There is a need for action now, and I can't get what makes the source tax on royalty and interest constantly pushed on. Why can't we have it soon? It has our promises for such a long time. The government is constantly talking about the big revenue gap, the government's revenue is not collapsing with the expenditure of the welfare state. So far, the solution has been small in spending on the state budget for those who have the least — one has increased the cost for the commuters, and the richest have got the big tax cuts. I will leave it now and focus on what the interpellant points to about international companies and lack of taxation. For the government, whether the Minister of Finance is from the Progress Party or the Right, what's going on is waiting. The core we're arguing about is whether we're still going to sit quietly and wait for internationally negotiated solutions, or whether we're going to do what many countries have done before us – take something into their own legislation while we wait. We are all agreed on and we support the fact that international negotiations are the best way of dealing with excess tax rules. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the tax system has great confidence in the population and that one feels it is fair. Then, too, international companies must contribute, and tax evasion and over-movement must be combated. When many react strongly to wind power investors pulling excesses out of Norway, e.g. in the case of a high internal interest rate on loans to itself, and thus the excess for the use of our natural resources out of the country leads to tax havens, yes, there will be trouble. In Norway, we have a long tradition that returns from the use of natural resources benefit the community. We cannot continue to wait for international action. It has to be done, not just talking. Even the Progress Party has let itself be provoked by the fact that this can happen when it comes to wind power, and then one might hope that there are now multiple changes here on the Storting. The working party has noted the good work being done in the OECD and that the objective of non-binding solutions in 2020 is firm, but with the provision of consensus in all cases and that this will also be implemented in all countries, it will take time. It is also not certain that the measures to be taken are quite adequate, as the interpellant pointed out. National tax penalties do not have to be a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian businesses. I think we need to talk a little bit more about this, because it can actually be an advantage if the distortion of competition is stopped or subdued. It should also be agreed by the government. Thus, there is an overall opposition, while a waiting for an international framework, repeatedly suggested measures, such as fine-tuning and facilitating fairer taxes that also deal with international companies. Then Norway can quickly adapt to international unity when it comes. The introduction of a source tax on royalty and interest, which I was in for, is an example of this and should have been introduced too far. Then there will also have to be a renegotiation of the tax agreements which provide for exemptions for source taxes on royalty and interest. Is there work started or do you want to wait for it here as well? There is no reason to just sit still and wait. To figure out the reverse credit deductions and the extension of country-by-country reporting in order to improve transparency, in order to gain international transparency, we could have started work on this, and we should have done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e746	I would like to start by thanking my colleague, Mr Kaski, for raising an important issue. I even had an interpellation on the same theme for a while back. There is no doubt that every year the Norwegian State misses important tax revenues as a result of tax evasion. To avoid that, we need to get better international agreements in place. We in the Right are concerned with having a tax system that facilitates work, effort and investment. For us, it is important that we have tax systems that ensure that people and businesses pay their fair share of tax. Tax evasion also reduces the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. It is difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Norway to compete with large multinational companies operating aggressive tax planning and achieving taxation well below normal tax levels. If Norwegian companies are to dry up and invest in Norway, we must continue to ensure that they compete under the same conditions as international operators. We have a society of small differences. Our children go to a good school, the elderly get a worthy old age, and we have a good safety net for those who fall outside. We have made this clear because we have made good choices and worked together across party boundaries, but also because we have a good tax system that ensures that everyone contributes and that we strengthen Norwegian business in competition with international trade and other companies that want to establish themselves in Norway. If we are to maintain a good and sustainable welfare society and ensure that Norway remains the world's best country to live in, the major multinational companies also have to pay taxes. According to estimates from the media agency GroupM, Google traded for 3.8 billion dollars. in Norway in 2018, while Facebook had a turnover of about 2 billion. kr. The two companies taxed 4 million respectively. SEK and 2.9 million. kr to Norway in 2018. But then my point is: it's not like Norway, or the government, is sitting still. There has been a good job over very many years as this government has been active. Norway has long been a driver for combating tax evasion across borders. This effort has led to the existence today of one of the world’s largest networks of more than 90 tax agreements for the exchange of tax information between different countries. Through the available channels, we must continue to be a constructive party that actively contributes to the work of the OECD and the EU in order to keep progress. That is why the Right has been sceptical that we should implement our own rules, and I fully support the line the Government has taken on in this matter and in this Chamber through our Minister of Finance. The disadvantage of such rules is that they become a patchwork that can certainly counteract a part, or a tab, of the challenge, but they do not contribute to the overall approach needed in these kinds of cases. Having said that, I would like to signal that I too, as a representative of the United Kingdom and the Financial Committee, am following the work of the OECD and the European Union with an increasing degree of impatience.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e763	It is very important to actively combat tax evasion and avoidance, both nationally and internationally. It is important to ensure the financing of the welfare state in the future, to ensure fair taxation and to ensure competitive conditions for Norwegian enterprises, not least small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the ability of large international groups to create complex corporate structures to avoid or circumvent taxes. The theme we're discussing today, which the interpellant has truly traveled on, is in no way a new theme for Stortinget. This is a topic that Stortinget has repeatedly been presented to us. It's a theme that the Center Party has been involved in both government and opposition. We have been involved in proposing this, as when we proposed to introduce the interest-rate reduction rule. It is a very important measure, but which, unfortunately, has been hindered both by the government — through the insidiousness of its extension — and by the fact that the search light has been placed on it by the guardians of the EEA Agreement, ESA. We have repeatedly had to tighten up government proposals in this Chamber, not least through our joint work on the 2015 tax settlement, where the opposition to the Stortinget had to ensure that there were clearer measures in the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion. In retrospect, we have repeatedly had to ask for the measures that were agreed upon, their progress and what is happening. It is, as I see it, a great deal of consensus in the Storting that we should be active in international cooperation and not least participate in the cooperation that the OECD has arranged, and the important work that has taken place there over time. Of course, it is hoped that the measures on the table by the OECD will now be implemented quickly. At the same time, there is no doubt — and the OECD itself acknowledges — that these are not far enough measures. There is a need to move forward both in international cooperation and in national action. It does not just hold to be involved in international action. We also need to look at how we develop our own policies. With regard to the taxation of digital companies, one thing is to see that there are changes in the economy, with new platforms and new areas that make us need new solutions, but it is so important to see how to tax to ensure fair taxation and good competitive conditions within existing industries, such as: has been detected by TV 2 in respect of the taxation of the wind power industry. There they showed that the Tellene wind farm in Rogaland had a profit of 240 million in 2018. NOK without paying a single penny in company tax in Norway. And with regard to the taxation of wind power today, it is, in addition to paying a few dollars in property taxes, no tax that is due neither to the communities nor – in this case – to the nation. The Central Party has proposed that we both get a change in the taxation of wind power through a natural resource tax – a return to wind power – and must close the gaps in corporate taxation nationally, so that one does not have a discussion about whether to have 24, 23 or 22 pst. corporation tax. It's an important enough discussion, but the biggest challenge is that some companies that are active and value creation in Norway pay zero in corporate taxes. New measures are therefore needed. This is an important theme that needs a new and reinforced effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e786	I support what my co-representatives have stressed here, that there is a great deal of attention and impatience on the part of the Financial Committee and the Stortinge's side about this issue. A wide range of measures have also been proposed from different parties on the Storting in the last two periods to combat this type of tax evasion and tax evasion, and I would encourage the Minister of Finance to take a look at the work done. The representative Gegelsvik was involved in the tax settlement in 2015. In advance of that, the Scheel Committee presented its investigation, and there are also very good proposals for action that can be implemented in Norway that will provide us with increased tax revenues. So there's a larger room for action here. I am also concerned about how long it has taken, among other things. to submit a bill on withholding tax on interest and royalties, and then I hear the Minister of Finance say that it will be soon. We've heard that for a very long time that it does, and it's been pushed all the way, so I just want to underline again that the impatience is great here. The same applies to sealing holes in the country-by-country reporting. Yes, we have put in place country-by-country reporting, but there are significant gaps in the one that the Storting has been busy getting close. I hope that the Minister of Finance will also be able to address the challenges of legislation related to country-by-country reporting. So the Finance Minister says that it's not a lengthy process in the OECD if you come to an agreement during this year. Now it's still to see if that consensus comes into place, but it's clear that that process has taken a long time, even though you might see the end of it now. I am pleased that he opens up to assess the need for other measures. Then I also hope that there is now work going on by the Ministry of Finance to investigate the national space for action, so that we are in the forefront of both a situation of any disagreement where no agreement is reached in the OECD, and – and I really hope that the Council of State and the Department are occupied with – what happens if that consensus is not far enough and there is no good way forward to tighten it up. So figuring out a national space of action I think is a trick. I can't understand how it's going to stand in the way of also following up the international processes in this. When so many other countries take national action, it's about securing their own tax access, but it's also done that the OECD has got speed up just because it becomes such a patchwork, which I agree is unfavorable. Finally, I would urge the Council of State to have transparency about Norway's position in the negotiations with the OECD. There have been multiple requests. I understand that he's not taking this, necessarily, but there's something that we might be able to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e803	Once again, I would like to thank you for an important interpellation and also for the good reflections and recordings of the representative Kaski. I value the impatience in the Storting in this area. I believe that here we have an important common interest, both in implementing the necessary national measures and in putting in place international solutions. But I have to say I have some problems getting to grips with what is the Labour Party and the Central Party option, other than being impatient. It is said by the representative of Gülsvik that you cannot just wait. The representative Heggo said the same thing. Wait, wait, we're not waiting. We've already put the interest rate constraint rule in place, it's tightened up. Dividends from foreign companies are not tax-free under the exemption method if the foreign company has been deducted from dividends. The concept of resident companies has been tightened up and must counteract adaptations. Country-by-country reporting has been introduced to the tax authorities of large multinational companies. The tax circumvention rule is recently legalised. And as I said in my post, in a short time, we will present proposals on withholding taxes on interest and royalties. I understand that this has been a long-term issue. I've been a finance minister for two weeks, and I'm going to be a proponent to get this in place. We need to have a continuous assessment of both actions that can be implemented and measures that need to be assessed if we do not achieve international work. But I am concerned that what we do nationally, should not act as a barrier to trade or contribute to counteracting the important international processes. We must have two thoughts in our heads. We need to ensure that we have an international regulatory framework that is adapted to technological developments and how business models evolve. At the same time, we must also close gaps in our national legislation so that we can ensure a level playing field and also income for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e817	That is when the debate is on case No. Four over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e835	In Norway, we have driven — and been good at — to put nature into work and exploit our resources in a sustainable way for a long time. Now we're facing and in the middle of the green shift, where we're going to phase out black in favor of green by going from fossil to only renewable carbon. We have our blue fields in the sea, which sell large amounts of carbon, and our green fields, rich in plant crops, in both the inland and the peripheral. Bioeconomy includes learning with long traditions about living in a pact with nature, achieving objectives of a forward-looking life-set, value creation and jobs linked to our resources. Because of climate change, the earth needs our attention. There must be an economic basis for building green industries, green jobs and a greener society. Here, national leadership is crucial. Locally it is happening more and more, and the state's bet on river ferries is one example of a gap between ambitions and tools available. Norwegian biobased business has a value creation of about 130 billion. A fresh NIFU report can tell us about 130 000 people. Innovation Norway points out that our country is at the top level in Europe in terms of productivity and value creation in the bioeconomy. The Research Council has granted approx. 1 billion. kr to bioeconomy in 2019. What action we are now taking will be crucial to how we deal with climate change and ensure that our descendants can live at least as good lives as we have done. At the same time, it is central to value creation and jobs in Norway, and the world, in the future. The government presented the Bioeconomy Strategy ‘Known Resources — Unusual Opportunities’ in 2016 to promote increased value creation and employment, contribute to greenhouse gas reductions and provide more efficient and sustainable use of renewable biological resources. The goal is in line with the wishes of the Stortinget. Last year I asked Minister Røe Isaksen when the action plan came, but he could not say. But yesterday: Jammen did not come, the requested action plan – hurrah! The bioeconomy strategy from 2016 was just a strategy full of fine words, until the action plan arrived. It was as if the jumper had taken off from the boom, but only now, four years later, could take off from the jumper. The actors who work every day for solutions in the bioeconomy received high hopes four years ago, but have since then been living in the blind. Now I have to say I'm excited about their reactions to the action plan. It is an important follow-up to the bioeconomy strategy. Primary industries have always been the main actors in raw materials management, but are now finally receiving the attention they deserve to bet on for the future. NIFU’s recent report points to an astonishingly high level of productivity for fisheries and aquaculture, while a relatively low proportion of the population are employed in relation to the bioeconomy. Nor does the world's purest food production come of itself, and requires professionals employed throughout the country. Processing, industry and marketing must take on board in the next series the life cycle these goods have taken. It'll never take the guts to eat food – our lives depend on food. But what kind of food we eat, and how it is produced, changes. Similarly, raw materials, resources, production and consumption must enter a circular economy that makes it profitable and, of course, with a minimal carbon footprint and the utmost attention to the processes of biology and ecology that need to be taken into account. We need clear incentives, tools and action plans to produce the results we need. In concrete terms, this applies, inter alia, to: agriculture with local processing, agriculture using land, increased use of wood, a whole-hearted commitment to industry and competence, and a consistent planning from municipality to country. I think it should be possible to support more bio-economic projects than is being done today. Examples include bioplastic production, feeding insects, the production of renewable materials and much, much more. In addition, innovation Norway has too little funds and has limitations on larger investments, which the government has also recognised as far back as 2016. In addition, Enova and regional development funds can contribute much more. It is politically balanced whether to have application-based schemes or grants and framework funding. In Norway, there are plans for the expansion of biofuels. Construction of biocarbon plants and production of bioplastics, several biogas projects and much more are on the stairs. I wonder how the Council of State will help to speed up this development, to scale it up, and to invest in the bioeconomy. The action plan provides a framework and direction for how the actors will work with the bioeconomy in the coming years. Innovation Norway, the Research Council and Siva have jointly developed the action plan announced by the Minister of Industry last year. I have to admit that there is still an impression that there are more words than concrete actions, but it is a good start. It is also said that this is a step in one direction, and I fully agree with that. The government’s impact review is carried out in parallel and needs to be done in order to obtain parts of the action plan. We're excited about further follow-up and recording and the work that so far has gone down there. I also believe that the expertise needs committee should be seen in this context. Research and education are an important part of the solution, which the Council of State itself is well aware of. The action plan includes, to a large extent, proposals for better structuring and interaction between relevant instruments, among and across the actors involved in the instrument. It's important. Ensuring the balance of research and development instruments, demonstration and pilot projects, project scaling, market orientation and internationalisation has been an explicit target since 2016. By providing a basis for cross-sectoral transfer of competences and learning, actors include: a proud industrial environment at Raufoss, in my home country, kept up with competition on the world market. We need more of these examples. Platforms for effective implementation and dialogue between business and research cannot be taken for granted. The new cooperation committee between the Research Council, Siva and Innovation Norway is a very good start. Such forums must then have the power and the means to move their environments – for bioeconomy and real green migration. So to climate change: both the amount of CO 2 in the atmosphere and the temperature makes the growth of biomass happen faster and more places. At the same time, we get a wetter and wilder weather. There have been plenty of celebrations about the bioeconomy. Initiatives taken both in public and private have given rise to enormous costs and to low profitability. Since the action plan was quite essential in the initial interpellation, I hope the Council of State will continue to focus on concrete actions, concrete coordination and concrete efforts by the government. How will the Council of State help to ensure that a commitment to the bioeconomy does not result in lower margins or loss of profitability, but in the creation of value and confidence in the future, with jobs throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e876	First of all, thank the representative for bringing forward this important area, which I understand has also been discussed with my predecessor, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. The value added potential associated with the bioeconomy is high. Increased and more efficient use of renewable biological resources is also central to the conversion to a low-carbon economy. Globally, the bioeconomy must also meet the need for food for an increasing population. Norway has ample access to renewable biological resources both at sea and on land and an industry and competence base that is well suited to exploit this potential. Through targeted and coordinated efforts, better use of renewable biological resources can contribute to new growth and to a green shift in the Norwegian economy. That is also why in 2016 the government presented the country’s first bioeconomy strategy. In this strategy, we describe how national investment in bioeconomy can contribute to increased value creation and new jobs, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and more efficient and profitable use of natural resources. In the short term, a bioeconomy investment will contribute to sustainable conversion and increased competitiveness in established bio-industries. In the longer term, it could also have a greater economic impact on the total economy. If the bioeconomy is to contribute to significant economic growth in the form of entirely new business activity and new jobs, it is likely to require significant transformation and renewal of established structures and business interaction patterns and could again challenge management, regulation and the structure of instruments. It's very positive to say about evolution. A recent report from the Nordic Institute for Innovation Studies, NIFU, shows that biobased business value creation has increased from around 80 billion. kr to about 130 br. kr since 2008. The number of persons employed has fallen slightly, from just over 142 000 to around 130 000, during the same period, but the report underlines the importance of the bioeconomy in ensuring jobs in the districts, as was the case with the representative himself. Both value creation and employment represent about 5 pst. of the total economy as of today. In particular, marine industries attract productivity and value-added in the bioeconomy in Norway. In addition, biobased production is becoming increasingly important in other industries, such as industry. pharmaceutical industry. Both Innovation Norway and the Research Council have established their own programmes to support the development of the bioeconomy in Norway, with the aim of contributing to knowledge building, mobilization and market orientation, and to cooperation, development and innovation in goods and services in the bioeconomy. Bioeconomy funding is also provided through the general arrangements of the instrument. The testing centres for industry, the catapults, also contribute to technology verification and scaling up. We've put Nysnø in place, which invests in climate-friendly technology. In addition, the stepping-up plan for the use of biofuels in road transport contributes to increased demand for advanced biofuels, which in turn provide opportunities for industrial production in Norway. It is a national objective that Norway should be a low-carbon society by 2050. The UN has determined that increasing the use of renewable biological resources is important to limit climate change. This is particularly true in transport and industry, but also in construction and agriculture, there are great opportunities to use renewable bioresources to replace fossil energy. In addition, increased use of bio-based chemicals and materials may replace fossil-based products. At the same time, a shift in the use of carbon from black to green will require significant amounts of biofuels, which in turn raise issues related to sustainable production and extraction of this raw material. The importance of increased use of bio-resources to limit climate emissions needs to be weighed against biodiversity considerations, land use and seas for food production, etc. In order to provide authorities with a strengthened knowledge base on these balances, we cooperate with other OECD countries on the development of sustainability indicators for the bioeconomy. Environmental sustainability must also be balanced against economic and social sustainability. It is particularly important for Norway as a small and open economy. We need to develop solutions with a positive climate and environmental impact in areas where Norway has clear competitive advantages. Good resource use is at the heart of a sustainable bioeconomy, where waste and residual raw material from one activity can become a valuable input into another. How can one better facilitate a more circular bioeconomy? It is a topical issue to look at in the work of the government's upcoming circular economy strategy. Knowledge-building and investment in research, innovation and technology are an important prerequisite for the development of the bioeconomy. Our research institutions have been working on key issues for the development of the bioeconomy for a long time. An interesting development is that researchers in the blue and green sectors, respectively, are increasingly raising issues common to the sectors. In order to support national knowledge and technology developments, Stortinget joined the government’s proposal to increase the funding for bioeconomy research and innovation by over 100 million. kr from 2017. In 2020, a total of about 4 billion were allocated. SEK in grants and loans for activities related to bioeconomy through Innovation Norway and the Research Council. In addition, approx. 250 million. kr in real estate and corporate investment directly or indirectly targeted at bioeconomy through Siva. We also need to ensure that we have support schemes across industries and disciplines and instruments that are coordinated across the different strands of bio-based value chains. Here is a big task at Innovation Norway, at the Research Council and at Siva. As previously announced, we have therefore asked these actors to establish a joint action plan for coordination of efforts in this area and follow-up to the leadership of the bioeconomy strategy. I don't know if it's because I've taken the Ministry of Industry, or whether it's because the representative is now lifting this interference, but the plan is at least completed, and a short version was published on the operators' websites yesterday. The plan shall contribute to the more efficient and coordinated use of relevant instruments for the development of the bioeconomy and will contribute to making the instrument simpler and more effective for business users. The bioeconomy strategy has made a strong contribution to putting the bioeconomy on the agenda both through an impact on other government documents and through ring-fences in the form of regional strategies and other initiatives. The bioeconomy field is a complex area covering several industries, sectors and disciplines. A total of ten state councils were involved in promoting the government's strategy, and an important added value in the strategy was to see the different responsibilities in the context. It is equally important that the development and use of bio-resources be integrated into the respective sectoral policies. For my part, as Minister of Industry, I see the need for a more bio-based and circular economy as part of a wider discussion on how best to facilitate green competitiveness in Norwegian business. A further investment in the bioeconomy is therefore not a separate project, but an integral part of the business policy that I have as my task to develop in the future. Finally, I would like to say that the interaction between the operators and the various instruments is also something we are looking at in the ongoing review of the nutritional instruments. Here we have received a number of recommendations from external consultants. We have received a lot of hearings, and we now have an assessment of this. I believe that this is also closely related to the job we are doing in the field of bioeconomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e908	I'm glad that the Council of State sees the possibilities we have here to land, and I experience that we have an almost similar reality perception. I'm just wondering if the Council of State is impatient enough. Now the action plan came, and we agree that is a step in the right direction. We need to see the whole country in the green shift. Our resources are distributed, and so must instruments and measures. The bioeconomy is characterised by complex and complex value chains. In order to develop the bioeconomy, the instruments must have seamless transitions from idea to market. That is what the action plan points to. It is also necessary to make business and management aware of the possibilities for developing a common understanding in areas where efforts should be made. The action plan points, inter alia, to: on the need for up-to-date knowledge, and I really hope the actors involved and the environments are involved, because there is a lot of knowledge out here in the sector. On the property side, Siva has several major projects, and in addition, the Centres for Innovation Research, Clustering Programmes, Innovation Programmes and Norwegian Catapult are among those that are promoted as good and with whom the participants have good experience. The problem is how we capture the masses. For 2020 and beyond, it will be pointed out that seminars will be held, the various agencies will be coordinated and will focus on relevant themes and activities that can contribute to the development of the bioeconomy. It seems good, because it is clear that all the answers are not ready now. But I hope that is a certain impatience – when it comes to being an ideal virtue and a work for a value-chain boost – also from the Council of State, so that what is possibly of bureaucratic or general obstacles in the ministry and legislation is done with success. I think life-cycle analysis requirements are important, but there are a lot of questions that remain to be answered, which have been updated only by the news that has been present, linked to carbon footprints on imports of goods, etc. We have to make it easy to be a consumer. We have to make it easy to make good, wise choices. I think, for example: The bioeconomy in which Oppland, Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold have cooperated with a region in Sweden, several business actors, research and knowledge environments, has been very interesting. Here they have learned from, for example: the shipping and oil industry and how to build trust and competence for investment in the bioeconomy. Here we simply have to translate this into measures that embrace the whole country, and we have to be impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e923	A general impatience and a basic belief in knowledge are two things I and the representative Knutsdatter Strand share in full. No matter what the question is, the answer is knowledge: it is knowledge that is needed for us to succeed, not just with the bioeconomy strategy, but with the transformation that society is going to undergo. The representative himself presented the major debate on climate change in the last few days and Norway’s goals of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. We know that we are facing major challenges that are going to require a lot of us in the future, and this is part of the solution. But we also share the impatience, because we depend on us actually coming forward, that things happen. Now – quite recently – this plan has been presented. It's not a plan that answers all the questions; it's a plan that essentially outlines a little bit of the different tasks that the different actors have and point forward. They write in the report that objectives and targets are ‘to create a coherent and accessible instrument that is relevant to the development of the emerging bioeconomy by providing appropriate and adapted instruments, by facilitating the transition between different instruments, by mobilising research and innovation in the bioeconomy and by promoting research and innovation in interaction’. So the job is not done with this action plan. It's a job we have to do every day. That's why it's also important to see this in the context of what we're already doing and have done up to now. Now this action plan will be put in place. We are very well engaged in the review of the industrial tool, which will also be important for the industry and research and education institutions to be involved in this. In addition, we have allocated a lot of money to this area. In the 2017 state budget, 100 million were allocated. kr for the follow-up to the bioeconomy strategy. In total, it's a little bit lower than 3 billion. kr for grants and loans for bioeconomy-related activity from Innovation Norway, and allocated approx. 1 billion. SEK in grants for bioeconomy-related activity through the Research Council. So I'm impatient, and this is a work that we're going to have to work on every single day. Finally, I would like to thank the representative for raising an important topic for debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e939	If the interpellant wants a final post, the president will open it, as there is no one else who has joined the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e944	Then the interpellation round is over. I have to say that it was a little sad that no one else wanted to participate in this round. In return, it's all the more interesting to hear the Council talk about this plan. Norway is one of the world’s most emitters of CO 2 per capita. In the future, we need to work to distinguish renewable and fossil carbon sources, so that the bioeconomy can grow, grow and become full bloom – as we want it to do. I also feel that there is a hot topic in the vocabulary, without being able to connect renewables to just the bioeconomy, which is the basic plan here. I think that the recent climate change course and the debate around it may show that the Ministry of Industry and the Minister of Industry actually have to be involved in keeping the other departments in mind, because I think we need to bring the industry and the industrial environments with us if this is to succeed. Now we're going into the most important settlement for the spring, the agricultural negotiations. It is clear that there is an important part of the actors that need to achieve this, together with other major industrial interests that are important in Norway. I have also noticed that some of the important things must be that we use the established networks and meeting places that exist, and that the bioeconomy is being infiltrated into the established structures and the work that is already going on for both growth and economic development, without it being on the side of what is happening. The major economic instruments involved in this, and in this effort, too, are good, but if you have different instruments or different economic incentives that work against each other, they just beat each other to pieces. I hope that the Minister of Industry will take the lead in saying that the bioeconomy is important for everything that is going on in Norway – in the whole country. I just have to thank you for the debate, thank you for having the Council of State set up. This is a happy day because we have just received the action plan. We have to keep working on it. I am happy to see it as a whole and also focus on the fact that the Council of State is ambitious and impatient – as she says she is – and that we will then get even greater progress and progress for the bioeconomy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e960	The representative mentioned the Climate Action, and it's going to affect a lot of what we're going to do in the future, not just in the Ministry of Industry, but in all departments. When the bioeconomy strategy was presented, very many councillors were part of that strategy. It's precisely because this isn't something that affects just one department, one government council or one sector. There is something that must work across – and there is also something we have to take seriously when it comes to our tool. That is why this action plan and also the review we have of the nutrient tool are so important. We can politically say where to go, and show a way, but we have to set up the tools we have, in the best possible way to get there. And we spend a lot of money on this, which I also referred to in my previous post. Then it's important to make sure that we get the most power out of that money, and we do that by arranging the device in a way that makes it the good projects and the good applications that come out of it, not the ones that are best to find out in our tool system. There's a job to do, and I think we're doing very well. That we have to see things in context, and that we have to use the arenas that exist today, I also fully agree. We have started an important job of reviewing the economic instrument – the action plan that came yesterday. It's an important basis to better facilitate the achievement of the goals we've set ourselves. The objectives we have are, of course, important from a climate perspective, but they are also important from an economic point of view, because this is also about being ahead, it is about developing technologies and new, smart ways of doing things and making use of resources. It can also give us an advantage in the competition with countries in the rest of the world if we are able to stand in the way of developing the solutions the world needs to achieve the goals we have set. Here there are many good forces that must work together, and bioeconomy is clearly an important part of the great task ahead of us, not least in the light of the climate cure and the targets for reduced emissions we as a nation have now set ourselves and registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e973	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over. So today's map is ready to debate. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th The cancelation took a break in the negotiations at 5 p.m. 12.40. -----
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e995	The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1004	Case No. 1 is the second reading of the law and concerns Law No. 43. There are no comments. Bill No. 43 is thus approved for second time treatment and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1043	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-6, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1055	The President noted that proposal No. 1 was not recorded. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to identify the extent of excessive compensation for the closure of animal husbandry on a case-by-case basis in the context of the revised national budget 2020 and to set aside funds to remedy this situation as from revised national budget 2020. It shall be ensured that no furry farmers remain in debt related to the plant after closure.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1074	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–6, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to amend the compensation scheme for fur breeders who kept fur animals on 15 January 2018 and which is affected by the decision of the Stortinget on 13 June 2019 prohibiting the keeping of fur animals, in order to compensate as if it were an expropriation intervention.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the replacement of the current compensation based on the book value and/or on the number of breeders by an economic compensation to the fur farmers based on the valuation of each fur animal plant.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to design a scheme for the taxiing of fur farms based on professional valuations based on expropriation rules.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue the other arrangements for the closure of the fur animal industry as laid down in the applicable regulation.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The remaining parties have notified support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1120	The President makes it clear that there are no more parties behind I in the vote, and you will therefore not be taken up for voting. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1132	Behind the advice is the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1148	The President understands that there are several people who have voted incorrectly. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1160	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-11.ana.ud129e1200	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
