ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e42	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e47	I would like to make a representative proposal on a profit-free kindergarten on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Lars Haltbrecken, Arne Nävra, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e70	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e77	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a quick and effective process on this matter, and it is supported by an overall committee – to reach the conclusion first. The reason why the government promotes this temporary change in the Cash Support Act and in the Child Protection Act is to remedy the negative consequences resulting from the outbreak of covid-19. The matter has been dealt with quickly in the government and here on the Stortinget. The Committee takes note of the short period of consultation and notes that no response was received, but the short period of time can be justified by the fact that the proposals are exclusively in favour of families who would benefit from the derogations. Furthermore, the change in the law is justified by the fact that it is not reasonable for families who have to stay abroad for more than three months due to the covid-19 pandemic to lose benefits. The proposal has been put in place so that the changes will not include families who in any case had planned a longer stay abroad. The Committee also supports the proposal that legislative amendments be returned in time to cover the cases where the exemptions are intended to cover. The Committee also supports the fact that the law is not repealed before 1 January 2021 in order to ensure that parents for whom the exemption may be relevant capture it. As a result of the covid-19 pandemic, many people lose or lose their income. Extensive and costly measures have been put in place to mitigate these impacts. Measures should be directed primarily at those who lose work and/or income or who otherwise have particularly high costs as a result of the crisis. In this respect, this measure is not clearly necessary. For most families who lose child benefit and possibly cash support for a few months, the loss will be manageable, but for families with the lowest income, the amount of child benefit means far more than for those with higher income. For families with several children, the loss is obviously greater than for those with one child. It is not reasonable, in the Committee's view, for families who would have retained child benefits and cash support if they had had the opportunity to return to Norway as planned within three months, to lose the benefit if they had to remain abroad because of the covid-19 pandemic. That is why we are adopting today a temporary derogation from the ordinary rules of this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e94	I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for its speedy examination of this important matter. In recent months, Norway and the rest of the world have been in a situation that is not similar to any crisis we have experienced in the past. The Covid-19 pandemic has had many far-reaching consequences and affected most people's lives in some way. Among other things, the risk of infection has led to extensive travel restrictions worldwide, and airlines have cancelled many of their flights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has assisted many Norwegians to return to Norway. Nevertheless, there may be some Nordics abroad who are in the difficult situation that they are unable to get home as planned. In order to receive child benefit and cash support, the child must live in Norway. The child is no longer considered to be a resident of Norway during a stay abroad for more than three months. The ordinary rules therefore mean that families who have a longer stay abroad lose child welfare and, where appropriate, cash support. In the government’s view, it is not reasonable for families who, because of the covid-19 pandemic, are unable to return to Norway as planned to lose their social benefits. These are families who would have kept the social benefits if they could have returned as planned. We have therefore proposed a temporary derogation rule. This will mean that families who can prove that they had planned a stay abroad of less than three months may retain child welfare and, where appropriate, cash support. I am pleased that the Stortinget supports the government's proposal, so that we can ensure families that they do not lose their child welfare and cash support because of the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e109	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e124	I refer to my letter to Stortinget on 28 May and a letter from Stortinget on 4 June 2020. I thank you for the opportunity to explain the relationship with Equinor's business in the United States and the country's follow-up in this context. My role in this matter, as Minister of Oil and Energy, is to manage the state's ownership of Equinor, where the state owns 67 pst. of the shares. As the largest owner in Equinor, the State is concerned about how the company manages the large values in the best way in all its activities, whether oil and gas, renewable energy or other activities — regardless of whether it is in Norway or internationally. Since the listing in 2001, Equinor has given good returns to the shareholders and thus to the State. The total return during this period has been better than that of comparable competitors and Oslo exchange. The ownership of Equinor has contributed, through dividends, to large transfers to the State pension fund each year. Recently, Equinor’s business in the United States has received a lot of negative attention — and rightly so. The case has different aspects. It includes large investments made some 10 to 15 years ago that have subsequently been found to cause significant losses. Furthermore, in Equinor’s internal audit papers, to which Contemporary Business has been given access, there are challenges related to cost level, internal control and business culture in the company’s operations in the United States. These are two aspects that should be considered separately. The challenges associated with internal control and business culture in the United States are serious, but are not the cause of the size of the accounting losses. In addition, there have been questions about the company’s financial reporting related to its activities in the United States. The debate in the wake of the media's mention of the matter concerns key principles of ownership by the State. It is therefore important for me to explain the matter in question and how the State, at the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has exercised its ownership in this context. The state ownership of Norwegian business is extensive. The State manages large amounts on behalf of the community. The State attaches great importance to managing its ownership in a professional and predictable manner. The framework and principles of state ownership policy have been firmly established by alternating governments since the ownership principles were established in 2002. These were anchored at the latest by the Storting’s treatment of the ownership notification in April this year. The broad political consensus in this field has contributed to high credibility and predictability for both companies and markets. The division of roles between shareholders, board and management follows from company law and generally accepted principles of ownership and corporate governance. It follows that the State that owns shall not have an understanding of the current business decisions. The management of the company is the responsibility of the board of directors and management and must be exercised in the interests of the company and its owners. The board of directors and management shall also be responsible for the operation within the applicable laws and regulations, for the definition of the risk profile and for the supervision of the other activities. This includes ensuring that the company has good internal control and adequate risk management and compliance systems. Like other shareholders, the State shall exercise its ownership at the general meeting. The ownership of the State shall be exercised in accordance with the principle of equal treatment of shareholders in company law. This means that the State that owns has no rights other than those of the other shareholders, including no requirement for more information than other shareholders. That being said, the State as owner can and should have a dialogue with the company between the general meetings. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has an active ownership dialogue with Equinor, in line with the framework of the ownership message. The dialogue includes the follow-up to the country’s objectives as owner and expectations of the company. In the ownership dialogue, I am concerned that we have a good prioritisation of the topic and how the state that owns concreteizes its expectations towards the company, and that we challenge the board. These are recordings to the company and not instructions or instructions. As a major owner, the state has both the opportunity and the interest to contribute to the positive development of the company with a view to the highest possible return over time. Equinor has built up an international portfolio of petroleum activities and renewable energy projects over the past 25 years. Equinor is currently active in more than 30 countries in addition to Norway, in various countries such as Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States. About 40 pst. of the total petroleum production of the company in 2019 outside Norway. Of these, the volumes in the United States were about half. It has been a political wish that Equinor could grow internationally. In the decision on the listing of Equinore, when Statoil, in 2000, the Stoltenberg Government highlighted the need to facilitate the company’s continued search for tasks in other countries, in order to further develop the competences and values of the Norwegian oil companies and the Norwegian supplier industry. The proposal on the merger of Statoil and Norsk Hydro’s oil and gas activities in 2007 also highlighted international growth. In the staging proposition, it was stated that: ‘The challenges and new tasks in Norway will continue to develop the company, but the company will also need new opportunities internationally to develop further.’ It went on to say: ‘The most important thing for oil companies today is to increase their reserves and resource base. This can be done in several ways, for example through organic growth through resource exploration, through the purchase of other oil and gas companies or the purchase of shares in producing fields. It is possible for a strong financial company to take more risks. Through the development of new technologies, a real resource that it has not previously been economics to extract can. The position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment at that time includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee has noted that the two boards assume that the merger will create a strong and viable Norwegian player in the global oil and gas industry. The combination of the resources and knowledge of companies will, in the opinion of the boards, contribute to a financially and technologically sound company, which will become a stronger international player than the two companies individually.» So there's been a clear statement from the Storting about a desire to seek international opportunities. During the 2000s, technology development combined with increased oil and gas prices made it possible to extract resources economically in skifer formations, mainly on land in the United States. In order to become an operator in this business, Equinor made several major investments in shale oil and shale gas over several years, mainly in the period 2008-2011. Here, for the sake of order, I want to make the Stortinget aware that in my answer to questions from the representative Espen Barth Eide, I was injured to refer to the period 2007-2011. The correct one shall be 2008–2011. Through an alliance with Chesapeake Energy Corporation in 2008, the company gained access to the area of the Marcellus formation in the northeastern part of the United States. Equinor bought into Eagle Ford in Texas in 2010 and cooperated with Talisman Energy Inc. on the development of these resources. In 2011, Equinor Brigham Exploration Company, which gave the company access to additional land on land in the United States, bought the Bakken Formation in North Dakota. Equinor has subsequently sold the Eagle Ford establishment. In the Gulf of Mexico, Equinor bought the deep water portfolio from Encana in 2005 and acquired Spinnaker Exploration with holdings in different areas from Norsk Hydro in connection with the 2007 merger. Equinor’s activities in the United States also include renewable energy in the form of marine wind projects. This applies as of today to the Empire Wind project outside New York and to a sea wind licence outside Massachusetts. Equinor bought establishments on land in the United States for a period of high oil and gas prices. The company also had expectations at high prices in the future. When the price picture turned around in 2014, the company had to write down large book values relating to these assets. The financial supervision of the public sector in 2014 verified some parts of Statoil’s consolidated financial statements for 2012. The Company briefed the Ministry of Oil and Energy on the supervision of Financial Supervision in an ordinary quarterly meeting in 2014. The inspection had revealed three errors that the company had corrected. In addition, the FSA recommended that Equinor present its business in North America as a separate reporting segment because of the size of this activity. The company informed that, following an assessment of the requirements of the accounting standard followed by the company, they chose to maintain the international activity in one reporting segment, in line with the industry standard. The Ministry took note of the company’s information at the time. Equinor’s annual report for 2019, published on 20 March of this year, shows that the company’s total financial loss related to its activities in the United States was 20.4 billion. dollar at the end of 2019, which equals about 190 billion. kr at current exchange rates. The total loss is shown in the ‘Additional information’ of the annual report as a negative sum in the column ‘Reared earnings’ of 29 companies owned by Equinor in the United States. The number will change from year to year and may vary depending on several factors. The company indicates that it currently has oil and gas resources and other assets with an book value of 16.5 billion. dollars in the United States. Then there's a carryable deficit of almost 4 billion. dollar not included. Future oil and gas prices and the ability of the company to operate properly will determine the final calculation. In 2014, Equinor faced major challenges with internal control in the United States, which the company claims could be traced back to the purchase of Brigham Exploration Company in 2011. In addition, it was found that the company has been characterised as an unacceptable level of costs. The company has acknowledged that these challenges should have been identified and addressed earlier. In the follow-up to Equinor, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has, among other things, have been aware of the company's overall performance, returns, dividends, leverage, liquidity, cost development, production, developments in price and market conditions and key sustainability-related conditions. The Ministry follows up the government's expectations of state-owned companies as reflected in the ownership announcements. Wages and salaries are a central part of the ownership dialogue between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Equinor. The aim of the country's ownership of the company is the highest rate of return over time. The Ministry has drawn up yield targets for Equinor notified to the company. Since 2014, the OED in the ownership follow-up of Equinor has been particularly concerned with developments and write-downs in the company’s country activities in the United States. Both in quarterly meetings between Equinor and the Department following the company’s performance proposals and in owner’s meetings between the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Chairman of the Board of Directors have been the international activities of the company. It includes depreciation and profitability of land activities in the United States. In order to further strengthen the follow-up of the owner, Arctic Securities brokerage agency commissioned by the OED in 2015 prepared a report on Equinor’s international activities, including those of the United States. The report showed, among other things: that there was varying profitability between different projects in the United States and that Equinor paid was in line with the price paid by competitors. The report is public and was sent on request to Stortinget in May this year. Like other government councils with ownership responsibility, the Minister for Oil and Energy is briefing in an annual report by the National Audit Office on the management of state interests in Equinor. In 2017, the Riksrevision asked questions about the profitability of Equinor’s foreign investment and the follow-up of the OED to the international business. The questions were answered by the department, and the Riksrevision informed the department afterwards that the matter had been closed. The Ministry has been informed through Equinor’s accounts and information that the company has suffered severe losses and low profitability in the United States since 2014. The fact that the profitability of land activities in the United States is more affected by the oil price than that of the Norwegian base industry has been known both for the OED and for the rest of the market. The company has also informed that its land activities have been less profitable than those at sea in the Gulf of Mexico. The Ministry became aware of the total accounting loss of 20.4 billion. the dollar associated with the US business through the company’s annual report after media coverage of the loss. The information on the overall loss could, in the opinion of the Department, have been more easily accessible, as the management of the company has agreed. I have clear expectations that the company will follow up on this. At the request of the OED, Equinor has informed the Ministry of the individual items that constitute the overall loss: About 9 billion. dollars relate to the accounting write-downs of investments in the national activity. About 4 billion. dollars are linked to write-downs in the Gulf of Mexico and the Bahamas. About 4 billion. dollars are linked to dry wells and costs associated with the Gulf of Mexico. About 3 billion. dollars relate to financial expenses, and about 1 billion. dollars relate to loss contracts. OED has been briefed on land write-downs of about 9 billion. dollar. The ministry has also been familiar with write-downs in the Gulf of Mexico, especially after the fall in oil prices in 2014. However, the exact figures for this part of the US business have not been known. The same applies to the figures for financial expenses and loss contracts. The way it is reported is the reason for this. The Ministry has over time taken up with the company what measures have been taken to improve the profitability of national activities. The company has informed that they have worked hard to reduce costs and improve technology. Furthermore, the company has sold its asset in the area of Eagle Ford in Texas. It is the company's responsibility to assess what information should be given regarding internal control and business culture. Equinor’s internal audit papers, which today’s industry has mentioned, point to cost-level, internal control and business culture challenges in the company’s operations in the United States. These challenges have not been known to the OED. It is the responsibility of the board and the management that the company operates with a good business culture and good internal control. The Ministry has not and should not have had access to the company’s internal audit reports. The OED receives the same information as the other shareholders. But I think the company should have shown greater transparency and informed about these problems. I believe these challenges were such that the company should have shown greater transparency in the dialogue with the OED on the US business. The State shall manage its ownership in a professional and predictable manner and in line with the framework for the exercise of ownership communicated to the Stortinget. Equinor’s activities in the United States are under the responsibility of the board of directors and management. This includes, inter alia: the investment decisions which the company has made and will make and how it operates on a daily basis. But it is my responsibility to manage ownership in the best possible way. There are two regular owner’s meetings this year between the Minister of Oil and Energy, the Chairman of the Board and the Head of the Group. In the light of what has emerged about Equinor's activities in the United States, I hastened the half-yearly meeting of the board of directors and the group leader to Monday, May 18. I did that to be directly informed about what has gone wrong in the United States, what the company has done – and does – to correct mistakes that have been made, and to discuss the way forward. In the meeting, I expressed expectations about more transparency about results and more information about major challenges the company encounters in its operations. Furthermore, I have challenged the company in their assessment today of the Financial Supervisory Authority’s recommendation of 2014 to report the US activity as a separate reporting segment. The company has announced that from the next quarter it will report more frequently and more openly on the US business. That is what the company will do by reporting on its activities in the United States as a separate operating segment. I think that's the right decision. This will provide a quarterly reporting equivalent to that of a reporting segment, in the same way as the reporting from, for example: Norwegian pedestal. The company has also said that they will consider making the United States a separate reporting segment, as recommended by the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2014. Equinor has stated that the internal control of the company's land-based operations in the United States is now quite different from what it has been in the past, which I expect. I have also asked today's board of directors whether the board is sure that the work on correcting past mistakes and deficiencies in the business in the United States has been sufficient, and whether the learning from these experiences has been well integrated into the company. The board of directors has informed me that the board has now decided to review the business in the United States. The review shall be carried out by a State-authorised auditor of the company and a sample managed by PricewaterhouseCoopers, with the support of Equinor internal resources. The selection will review all so-called red audit reports related to the United States and the other international organisations back to 2012 to ensure that they have been satisfactorily followed up. The acquisition of Brigham Exploration and other relevant transactions will be reviewed, including what the company has learned and how this has been implemented in the business. The review will also look at the follow-up of international activities by the Board of Directors. The report is planned to be completed by October and will be public. I welcome this report, and that there will be a broad and full review of everything of relevance, including the underlying reasons, as the chairman himself describes it. I also see a need to step up the follow-up of the Department of Foreign Affairs to Equinor, not just in the United States. I want to introduce a new regular meeting between the department and the company after submitting the company's annual report. The purpose of such a meeting shall be to prepare for the Governing Council’s ownership meeting with the Chairperson and Group Manager in which the annual report is reviewed. In addition, it is natural, given the time that has passed, that the Ministry will again have a thorough external review of the company's international activities. At the turn of the year, therefore, the Ministry asked Arctic Securities to draw up a report on Equinor’s international activities. The background to this is that the company's activities have been subject to changes since the previous report was drawn up, including: as regards the picture of costs and oil price expectations. This work was planned to take place after the publication of the 2019 annual report. Work has been somewhat delayed due to the covid-19 pandemic and the need to update price and cost forecasts given in recent developments, but the report is under preparation and will be publicly available. As Minister of Oil and Energy and responsible for the management of state ownership in Norway's largest company, I will continue to follow closely the company's follow-up to the US business. The accounting write-downs and losses are large. I believe the company should have informed the matter better and more directly in communication with the department as well as with other shareholders. I also believe that the matter also concerns issues such as corporate culture, capital discipline, soberness and transparency. These are the issues I will address in the further dialogue with the company on what are learning points from the case and actions in the future. I have already stated, both to the board of directors and to the public, that I share the company's own assessment that the business culture that has previously been part of the US business has not been acceptable. The Board of Directors and the management of the company have a great responsibility towards all shareholders, employees and other stakeholders to do their utmost to avoid situations such as those in the United States occurring in the future. I have underlined this to the board of directors and the group leader. My impression is that Equinor takes this matter very seriously. As I pointed out initially in this statement, the state ownership of Norwegian business is extensive. The State manages large amounts on behalf of the community. Therefore, the country attaches great importance to managing ownership in a professional and predictable manner. Ownership policy has a clear division of roles between the responsibility of the State that owns and the responsibility of the board and the management of the company. We express clear expectations for our companies, including Equinor, in line with the ownership policy adopted by a broad majority on the Stortinget. It is an important principle that the company is responsible for the strategic and business decisions taken. I think it's an important principle to stick to. At the same time, the State has clear expectations of responsible activities, transparency and reporting. Therefore, I have been very clear that the company should have shown more transparency about results and provided more information about major challenges that the company faces in its operations. I will end by expressing the expectation that the experience from this case contributes to learning, both for the company and for the state's ownership. Today's presentation is a contribution to that work. This will be important to regain the trust that the company needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e260	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open for a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e265	I want to start by thanking the Council of State Bru for a thorough and good presentation. I believe that in her statement she described the matter with the seriousness that it deserves. We're talking about Norway's largest company, and we're talking about the largest company in our main industry, an important part of a proud oil and gas history in Norway, an important part of the story about how Norway tamed the oil and became the country we have today. That's why it's especially important that Equinor, formerly Statoil, is conscious of his responsibility, and the criticism that the Council of State is making against the company and what has happened, I'm completely behind him. I think it's important that the company understands the seriousness of the big society and we in Stortingen, the political authorities, take this matter into account. I would also say that it serves today's leadership to the credit that they've been so clear that this is problematic, that things have happened that are serious, and that they want to be clear, honest and sincere in cleaning this up. I think, for example: It is a good move from the management of the company that they have now invited to their own thorough review. Of course, it will not replace what we do in Stortinget. I don't think it's the company's intention either, but it can help clarify the conditions that need to be clarified in order to be able to get the necessary learning both in the company itself, in the society in Norway and in our dialogue with this our most important company. But for one day serious issues have arisen, as the Council of State said, business culture, cost control and internal control. This is mainly under previous management of the company. Current management is clear that it is familiar with this and acknowledges it. But there must be a thorough cleaning in the company itself. There are still some questions about the role of the board, and we are going to follow up on further questions about the role of the government, i.e. the ministry, in their ongoing ownership. I would like to use this opportunity to stress that the Workers' Party is a strong supporter of a professional owner management. We're going to govern the companies the state owns, through general assembly, through proper principles, through non-discrimination, but it's incredibly important to stress that professional ownership does not mean, as someone thinks, arm's length distance from business culture and order and custom and use. It is clear that, as owner, one has expectations of how a large Norwegian company operates, whether they operate in Norway or abroad, that it represents Norway in a good way, since the company is so much associated with us. And it's an expectation from society that comes in addition to expectations of, for example, returns over time and eventually perhaps other expectations that we will come back to in other contexts, about the role of the company, for example. as an engine in the renewable transition, which is slightly out of the current discussion. We're going to follow up on this now with some concrete questions. The Council of State has now explained that the Department was familiar with the economic aspects of this matter, but to a lesser extent with the business cultural aspects. Is it then the board that has not been sufficiently aware of its responsibilities? Were the right questions asked? Have the representatives of the Governing Board who have been appointed to the general meeting with the support of the State sufficiently aware of their role in this? These are the things we'll come back to in the further follow-up we're now going to have. And not least a very specific question, namely when the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2014 thought it was appropriate to report on the United States as a separate segment, why the company still did not follow up on this, and why it was not followed by the board, possibly the owners. One point about ownership management is that there was actually a point 20 years ago when the then Statoil was listed and they got private owners, that these private owners should also be partners for the state to look at the management of the company, i.e. experienced large managers should look at it. So I don't think that's what this question is about. It is whether this responsibility has been followed up enough. What we're doing now is taking this matter to the committee. I thank you again for a thorough explanation, we'll go through it thoroughly, and then we'll come back in the ordinary process with the questions we needed in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e282	First, let me thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation and for coming to the Stortinget to explain. This is a matter that has naturally been the subject of great attention, and it is important that the Storting is informed, and that we get a good discussion. This is an important matter because it is about ownership management of an important company in which the state manages a large ownership on behalf of all of us. This requires that we take the information that has been provided seriously. The size has clear expectations that companies owned by the state are acting in line with good business practices and in line with what we can call good Norwegian values. I am pleased that the Council of State has done a thorough job and has taken action. It is also good to remember that the critical conditions that have emerged are in time, but a thorough review is nevertheless necessary to ensure that both companies and the state take up learning. I think it is good that the Council of State warns of a tightening of procedures. It is also good that Equinor has initiated a review of the US business. I expect that in the review you will turn every stone to ensure learning. A broad majority in the UK is behind ownership policy. While we're learning, it's important to stick to the good principles we've agreed on: professional ownership management, yes, but also that the company has a responsibility, of course. It's important to remember why the state is a big owner in Equinor. It is to maintain a leading technology and energy company with its head office function in Norway, where the target is the highest rate of return over time. The clean-up that is now under way is important for trust in this company and the way in which it operates. I look forward to this being dealt with in committee, and I would once again thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e297	And I'd like to start by thanking you for a thorough and systematic distribution of large parts of the events that resulted in a loss of 190 billion. kr — a loss not necessarily due to faulty positions, but, as the Council itself says, to a business culture that is not sufficiently healthy. The Progress Party believes that when we own a big company like Equinor, we're going to be willing to take the risk of getting returns, but the cost level that has shaped a part of the activity that's been going on in the United States is revealed rather fundamentally contrary to the business culture that influenced us when we built up the company, and not least the way we've handled the construction of Norway as an oil nation. That's why I also think a lot of people react to this case, because there's something unhealthy about the way you've managed business development in the United States. I still think it is good that the Council of State is so clear that it is the company's rental and the board of directors who have a responsibility to follow this up in the day-to-day life. I want to underline how crucial it really is in a company as large as this. We rely on the board to go into this kind of assessment thoroughly enough. I am also pleased that the Council of State has said so clearly that it is not satisfied with the openness and business culture shown here. It seemed to me to bear witness to a government council that is now taking action to have better control in the future, without the state council taking over the responsibility of the company's management and the board itself. I mean the business culture that's shown, not only is unhealthy, but he's unacceptable, not just for a company where the state is a big owner, but perhaps especially for a company that is so often identified with Norwegian business outside the border. As a result, I found it positive that the government is very clear when the Council of State is handling the matter today. Then there is probably a lot of detail in this distribution that we will also come back to through the committee procedure, but I thank you once again for the fact that the Council of State is coming to the Stortinget, and I feel that it is far in the way that it responds to the need we have to know that the ownership management has ours, and will still be, closely followed up, and not least that the Council of State underlines the responsibility it has for ensuring that the ownership management is tight enough on the board as well. It is good in a matter that strictly deals with relationships we should have preferred to have ahead of us, which has uncovered an unhealthy culture, which has exposed an unacceptable level of costs, and which has aroused the attention of both the government and the Storting, to learn from it, but also to set a clear example that the company in which the state is a major owner, we have higher expectations than the company has shown in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e310	I would like to start by thanking the State Council for its work. There are things in this case that are almost hard to believe that is true. I have recorded that there has been a discussion about what is a covering description of Equinor's business in the United States and what has emerged. It's hard to get away from the fact that it's an industrial scandal we're facing. For the Central Party, it is important and we support that we have companies where the state is a large owner, which has operations outside the borders of Norway. I can refer to Telenor, Hydro, Equinor and Yara as examples. We have good experience in this, and it is a good thing that Norwegian companies operate outside. One of the things that is particularly important is that one takes Norwegian business and business culture into the world and builds on it. So it will be that both in Equinor and in other companies there will be misinvestments. I don't think we can make a political decision not to happen. But what's special about the misinvestments in the United States is that the company seems to have forgotten that Equinor, the impending Statoil, is and was an offshore company. The information we have received from the Council of State today and before, and also through the press, gives two main impressions: money has been lost enormously, and the enterprise has been driven in a way that we do not recognize as a Norwegian corporate and corporate culture. This is about the seventh and last trust in Norway's largest and most important company, and there is no doubt that that trust has been weakened. We have been briefed that the board of directors has started a review, and we also record that the Council of State is criticising the company in its decision-making. I think that further work needs to be done with two starting points. The only thing that has happened in the board, what has happened in the company, but it will also be natural to look at how the department has followed up the ownership exercise in this. Is the principle of ownership practice followed up, and should one have reacted to this earlier? These are the things that end up in a question about what we're doing. It will appear in the committee's proceedings. It is not possible to change history, but it is possible to rebuild trust, and then I think one must be so open and say that one must turn all the stones. It is difficult to see that it can happen on its own through an assignment from the Council of State and the Board of Directors and the company's own review. Therefore, I see that the result of this will be that the company is also being examined – initiated by the owner, in line with the rules of company law – in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e325	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good and absolutely necessary presentation. In Norway, despite being a small country, we are used to large sums, especially when it comes to the oil industry. But nearly 200 billion. There is a lot of money, even in Norway and even in oil, and what we are now going into here can rightly be called one of the biggest industrial scandals we have seen in Norway. The state is the largest owner in Equinor, and the large sums that we are talking about here do and have made SV think that it is quite natural that we at Stortinget go into this matter thoroughly both now and on the basis of what has been. That's why we asked for this presentation. We're talking about so big sums over a period of over ten years that it's important to look at what's happened in the last few years, and also to go back thoroughly in time. We have seen in this case that Equinor has both taken too much risk and has not been able to adjust the course along the way. It has contributed to great loss. There has also been a messy and far too poor internal control, which has once again contributed to losses, where red reports have not been followed up internally, and there has been a miserable corporate culture, which in no way defends the public. There is every reason, on the basis of this, to make strong criticisms of Equinor, and I am pleased that the Council of State is also doing so. With such a loss, it's in place with a review where you go in and look at how this could happen. It is about the internal conditions of Equinor that have allowed that type of lack of internal control, the type of risk-taking and the type of corporate culture, but it is also about the role of the board and the ownership dialogue. Now, when the Council of State sharpens the routines of the follow-up, it's in place, but it's also a recognition that that follow-up may not have been good enough. The council says that the profitability has been a central part of the ownership dialogue with the company, but then it is simply strange that this could go so far without anyone dragging on the brake. I just want to ask questions about whether the follow-up of Equinor's foreign investment has been good enough over these years. I'm glad we're going to have more transparency about Equinor's foreign investment, but this has to apply more than just the United States, it has to apply to all countries. At the same time, it is difficult now to say that the ownership and management of the state ownership of Equinor will be good enough in the future without going into detail over the last 10–15 years. Several government councils have been involved here. SV therefore believes that given the scope of the case over a longer period of time, this case requires that we get it to the inspection committee. SV will ask for it because it is important that the Storting itself can go into how ownership management has been carried out, both in recent years and beyond in time – as long as this has continued. I record that the representative Pollestad is involved in some of this when he calls for an investigation. There is also something that SV can put behind. This is a matter that is so serious, which is about the trust in the largest oil company we have on the base, and which is about one of the most important state ownerships we have. It is about trust in Norway and in Norwegian business also abroad. It is such a serious matter that we have to turn all the stones to get to the bottom of how this could happen, in order to be able to straighten the course forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e342	Thanks to the Council of State, which has a thorough and good review and also announces some new measures related to ownership management. For such a large company that contributes so much to the public, but also has a majority government share, it is important to trust and that we have an openness that makes not only politicians but also public opinion access to and understand what is actually happening. In that debate, it also hears what is an arm's length distance: understanding what ownership control is for a state as a majority victory. Some have also referred to the term ‘risk’. It is difficult not to take into account in history that there have been political ambitions related to taking that risk out of Norway, and to growth – new geographical areas, political ambitions and the desire for increased returns. We cannot push under the carpet that there has been a debate on both shale oil and tar sands on the American continent. It reflects some of the risks when we stand here some years later, and has been through both a large oil price drop and a pandemic that has dumped the oil price significantly. One sees the resources that need to be deployed to extract, and one has taken a significant risk of contributing to it. That is why the learning element is important in moving forward, because it is clear that at the time when we are about to reduce climate change emissions, we will be dependent on new technologies and increasingly renewable energy. We will have to take the discussions about the risks in the continuation. It's also about geographical risk. It can be about more seas and not so much on land. It can be about different business cultures, and it will also be about capital investment. We have to learn from what we've been through now. I am very pleased that the Council of State mentions the investigation, and that it should be led by an external actor in that area. We are also not finished with the debate on the ownership organisation of Equinor. We have had good ownership announcements about the principle associated with it over a long time in the Storting, but historical circumstances make Equinor subject to the Ministry of Oil and Energy as the only large, state-owned majority company. Some batches also have a discussion about whether to split up the foreign bet. Someone is discussing whether to split up the renewable effort. Those debates will continue. Therefore, that part will be with us, but we also need to discuss political ambitions relating to returns and technology and to even greater lift the renewable ambitions of state actors. We have many debates ahead of us. In this way, the ownership debate will continue for many years to come because it is linked to the EEA Agreement and the EU which department will be the owner of Equinor. I hope that we focus in particular on the types of technology and what we in Norway should contribute with our capital in addition to returns, purely economic, which are wider than just money. We're at the forefront of a lot of technology that can do a lot for the climate, and I hope that we'll focus more on the debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e359	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation. I don't think I was the only one who blocked my eyes when I read the article to Today's Business on the investment in the United States. The stories were of such a nature that it was almost hard to understand that it was right. I'm not sure if that was the sum of the misinvestments, the economic mess, or the lack of transparency that was the most perceptive, but the sum of it all can hardly be called anything but catastrophic. Lose $200. kr is almost unintelligible, and adds one more that the state would have had a claim of 67 pst. of whether or not it had been paid in dividends to the shareholders, the sum is not far from the extra costs incurred by the State in relation to the coronary apathy so far. It is also not the first time Equinor has hit a blow with international investment. In 2007, Statoil invested 4 billion. dollars in Canadian oil sand, and nine years later they sold themselves out and at the same time took large write-downs on accounting values. In the meantime, the Christian People's Party had repeatedly promoted representative proposals in Stortinget to use the ownership of the company to stop the oil sands, without having a majority in favour of it. I think it's easy to conclude with what was right, in retrospect. Six years later, we get this case of shale oil in the United States. 200 B.C.E. kr is lost, and it seems as if there has been a home-alone party in the US part of the company. The stories of economic root in this range, irresponsible use of money and trailers that drove around and picked up receipts are not everyday. In that perspective, it's hard not to mention that we've been negotiating a tax package for the industry that frees 100 billion. kr in liquidity. Several fields that were at risk of exposure have been mentioned in this round. For example, the Noaka field has been still mentioned in this round, and a quick search on the Internet shows that Noaka has an expansion cost of 45 billion. kr. So the losses in the United States are twice the liquidity effect of this tax package and more than four times as much as the investment related to the Noaka expansion, to put it in perspective. The Christian People's Party believes that what has emerged is unacceptable, and we are very pleased that the Council of State has gone into the matter with great weight. I would once again like to thank the Council of State for today's presentation, and we are confident that she will deal with this matter in a good and satisfactory way. Equinor needs to clean up, and the company needs to learn from these mistakes that have been made. The Norwegian people are majority shareholders in the company, and they have a duty to do so. Our expectation of the company is clear: they must clean up and change the procedures so that something like this does not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e372	I would also like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. I am really happy that she obviously takes what has happened very seriously. This will undoubtedly be a difficult job for the Council of State Bru to clean up after their many predecessors in both red and blue governments. Equinor's investment in the United States is the biggest industrial failure in Norway's history. Equinor and the Norwegian authorities responsible for this matter have cut several fantastic goals for themselves. Clearly, here the strategic scenarios and choices based on them have been very deficient. Has the board really done its job of asking the important critical questions of an overeager management with tunnel vision? They haven't just lost huge values owned by the Norwegian people. They have also made Equinor and thus Norway a kind of pioneer in the development of some of the world's most polluting and dirty energy resources. After Germany actively took management as a precursor nation in solar energy, and after Denmark did the same in wind energy, Equinor – on behalf of the Norwegian people – chose to become a precursor in climate-damaging energy such as tar sand and shale gas. Both Germany and Norway have used much of the community’s funds to take on such a pioneer role, but where Germany first lost money to make the world better, Norway has lost money to make the world much worse. Some might think that it is wrong for the Greens to interfere with climate policy in this debate, which is, in isolation, about state ownership and failed investments. But in this case, climate and economy are so closely linked because they have taken a huge climate risk and at the same time a huge financial risk – and failed grandiostly with both of them. Most of Equinor's investments in the United States required a historically high oil price to be profitable. If so expensive resources are to be profitable, it assumes that these resources are extracted and incinerated in addition to very much of the other fossil energy that can be extracted with much lower break-even, or balance-price, as it is called in Norwegian. Equinor's cowboy investment in the United States is a direct gambler that the growth of world emissions would go even faster than it has actually done. It is serious that some of the largest and most important investment decisions made on behalf of the Norwegian people have been based on such supposedly unexamined premises. This case is very serious, completely independent of what is believed to be the climate profile of Equinor's US investments. The Greens will therefore follow up the case further through our representative proposal to set up a large-scale investigation commission to investigate the business operation of Equinor in relation to all these losses on foreign investment. There are at least three main questions in such an examination. We need to figure out what the state could and should do to avoid these losses, and whether there have been irregularities. These include: to ask, of course: What kind of consequences have the situation in the United States actually had for the governance dialogue? Why was the Financial Supervisory Authority’s call to report the US figures separately not followed up, and why was it not requested by the Council of State? How can we bring about changes in the state ownership dialogue with Equinor in order to avoid similar losses and strategic misinvestments? That this dialogue has been problematic was also pointed out in a 2014 confidential report, in which the consulting company THEMA Consulting evaluated the OED’s exercise of ownership role: The state, by OED, is perceived as a strikingly invisible owner, given the size of the state's holding. In the worst case, it may contribute to a certain kind of suspicion that something is happening in enclosed spaces with which the market is not familiar. We note that Equinor has announced that the company will go through the international venture independently of PwC, which should not, however, look at the critical conditions or strategic choices. We also note that the Council of State will introduce new ownership management procedures. We in the Greens therefore believe that an independent investigation is necessary in addition. Therefore, I hope that both the Council of State and the rest of the Storting will support our proposal for an independent investigation committee, which will be dealt with in the Control Committee. The size and the public need the best possible insight into what has gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e407	I want to start by thanking you for all the good posts here in the hall today. I also share much of the criticism that has been made here. I think it is important now that the company also notices that there are clear feedbacks across party politics in the Stortinget today, especially regarding business culture. Good Norwegian business values, good corporate culture, capital discipline, soberness, transparency – this is something we are proud of. That's also something we expect our companies to have. We've done a lot already, as I explained earlier today. That review, as the chairman now describes it, will be very important in the further work, also in order to regain the necessary trust. Then I register that some representatives are in charge of further investigation by either the Stortinget or the company. No matter how the Storting chooses to take the matter further, I will of course answer the questions raised by the Storting and the Committee in the context of the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e418	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the Secretary of State for Oil and Energy report on Equinor ASA's activities in the United States and the State's follow-up be sent to committee. The President will come back to it under Unit. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e436	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is the representative of Mr Lyngedal, who is the rapporteur on the matter. She does not seem to be present. Then we start with the representative Kårstein Eidem Løvaas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e445	In the room you can travel at the speed of light. We have to bet that the case rapporteur will find the way while I keep my post. The main developments in Norwegian space policy were the last time discussed in Stortinget in the spring of 2013. Then it was 26 years ago. So it was time for a new space strategy. Technological innovations such as small satellites and fairer launch solutions, strong growth in the production of goods and services based on the exploitation of space data and images, increased importance of space activities for the safety and development of society, which make defence and security increasingly important in space development and the development of space-related industry and education, are all, individually, important factors justifying the need for treatment in the Storting. There are four objectives for Norwegian space activities: promoting profitable enterprises, growth and employment meet key societal and user needs; ensuring adequate security of societally important space infrastructure – and safeguard Norwegian foreign, security and defence policy interests in space activities; It is gratifying both that this policy area is receiving increasing attention and that there is a broad consensus on the importance of the various initiatives. Some discussion about which instruments and how they are to be used is natural enough, but it serves the industry that we are politically essentially moving in the same direction. The industry is also rapidly growing and currently represents a turnover of around 8 billion. kr. The industry also has a high interest in the coming generations and is therefore an important driver for increasing the status of real science and for giving more attention to research and development. In the pursuit of what we will survive in future Norway, this industry will be an important part of it, and therefore policy must promote profitable businesses, growth and employment in the space industry. The use of communication, the need for weather forecasting data, environmental monitoring and opportunities that open up in everything from precision farming to flood warning — all pointing towards increasing dependence on the infrastructure in space. A clear Norwegian presence at all stages of the value chain will meet important societal and user needs. In the room is the infrastructure that is both fun to have, and that we need. Providing adequate security for societally important space infrastructure is absolutely necessary. It turns out historically that what has been fun to have, has gradually become something we must have. Environmental monitoring is a good example. Norway is a small population with large areas, particularly in the northern regions. Ensuring Norwegian security and defence policy interests is a high priority, and space activities are an increasingly important part of this. We see more and more countries becoming more aware of the importance of presence in space, and there is an increasing emphasis in security policy. Norway must not be hanging behind this. With enormous sea areas of strategic and economic interest both nationally and internationally, Norway has a great responsibility to care for and manage these interests and resources. Without a clear policy that also includes space activities, we will not ensure this well enough. Norway has a significant investment in space activities and participates in several international programmes. It is our national needs that are leading what programmes and to what extent we are going to participate. Norwegian economic participation in space programmes is then also determined in the annual budgets, as is the tradition of how state budgets are designed here to land. To gather the threads into the ongoing work, I want to point to the Norwegian Space Centre. It is up to them to organise contacts with industry, academia and important user groups. Norsk Romsenter has also been authorised to establish a professional council. There are good reasons to establish such advice to counteract silo effects in the industry, but also between the different policy fields. It is gratifying that we are today asking the government to ensure that Andøya Spaceport is realised. There could be a spearhead in Norwegian space betting, and the ringing effects will be great both in the region and nationally for the whole industry. Such lighthouses will also contribute to further progress in the field, which promises good for future education, research and innovation. Norway is already leading in several areas of space technology, and both existing satellites and future rockets have and will have Norwegian technology on board, even technology from my home district, Vestfold. We also see that the knowledge we've acquired over many years with the development of deep-water technology is transferable to outer space. When Norway is about to change, the link between the deep seas and outer space is a star example. Norwegian space activities are developing rapidly and have enormous significance for civil, military and future value creation. We are now facilitating Norway to hang out with and in some areas continue to lead the global space industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e492	I see that I now have even more reasons to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter – and perhaps especially my colleague Eidem Løvaas, who was so sporty that he was here when I was supposed to be here. Sometimes, the Business Committee is dealing with matters that carry opportunities for the future – for new technologies, which we do not necessarily know today, which can be used to provide us with knowledge that we actually do not yet know the benefits of. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I am very pleased that today we are not just going to take the customary decision we have made so many times this spring, namely that the communication is annexed to the protocol. It was exciting to get involved in the strategy, but it was mainly a description of Norway’s capacity in the space industry and management. There was little evidence of new political ideas and exciting new initiatives, and by the unanimous decision of the nutrition committee today that they want to build Andøya Spaceport, we add a small taste of birds and give a solid strategy a new boost. Through the establishment of Europe’s first launch base for small satellites on Andøya, Norway has a capacity that is attractive to the industry in Norway, and many enterprises, whether organised in NIFRO or Abelia, or called the Kongsberg Group or Nammo, have said that this gives them opportunities for important industrial cooperation outside Norway. We know that the establishment is important for the defence, because it's valuable with access to launch capacity for satellites, and we know that more NATO allies also find it attractive. We have some competitors to build Andyya Spaceport, but with location near the North Pole, I would argue that Andyya is the best choice, especially for Norway, as a European Arctic state, with great interest in the information we can get in polar paths. That Andøya can live in the best location, makes me extra happy as a Nordland politician, because Andøya is a society worthy of special attention by the Stortinge after major loss of state jobs. The establishment of 200 new permanent jobs in Andøya in the forward-looking industry is important for the Workers' Party. It's important for the Nordic states and for us on the Stortinget. So it requires follow-up in Prop. 127 S for 2019-2020, which the Stortinget will deal with next week, in which case the money will be allocated. But we get that faith going well. Industry must manage this growth impulse well. One has to break into the value chain, talk well and talk to our university competence providers. The students of the country's only satellite technology study at UiT in Narvik would like to cooperate with several companies, and they, together with NTNU, have called for funding for student satellites, because it creates great commitment. The Committee has placed great emphasis on describing the environments of competence in Norway related to space activities and on the competence of the industry they claim to be dependent on in order to raise further. This is because the notification does not affect the competence needs of the industry at all and because competence is important for any industry. The technical subjects of the hearing bodies are the most important ones. For us who aren't so inside of all the shades, it's probably engineering skills you need, both those specialists and those with width. 80 pst. of the satellites that register for us, are connected to communication and to observing the earth. We're going to do more of both of these. Our need to observe the earth only increases with climate change, because the data provides us with a better basis for right decisions. Therefore, the Workers' Party has been committed to establishing a Earth observation centre in Tromsø related to the competence environments and the large enterprise KSAT there. Unfortunately, we do not receive the support of the Government Parties or the Advance Party, but we will give subsidiary support to their proposal for Decision II to investigate such an establishment. Most serious in this matter is that the government doubts whether Norway is going to participate in EU programmes in the space industry. The government parties say that this is because they “are unable to advance the work of the state budget for 2021”, but I hope we can today hear a government council that can at least express an ambition for participation, even if we are not going to grant money here in any way. The Workers' Party has also proposed a Strategic Council for the Development of Norwegian Space Activities, adopted by the Stortinget in 2016. Such advice is available in England and the United States, and we believe it will provide the industry with important consultation and access to political authorities. We have also wanted a national space programme that we can steer entirely based on national interests, and believe that it will provide industry with a long-term and predictability that would have strengthened it. With that, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e524	The representative of Åsunn Lyngedal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e529	I am very happy that today we are dealing with a big message about the space company, because it was not reported that it would be like this. It was a long time since one of the government officials thought that a strategy was going to last. But it is clear that for the industry it is very important to get a big message and a large number in Stortinget that ends up very much. There is much more security in it than having a strategy developed by a department and a relatively weak minority government. I think it's very important that we use this groceries message to provide care for the industry. For the Centre Party, the space industry is a special industry. It's a district industry. We're busy using the whole country, and what's good about space travel is that they also use the upper layers of our country. So what point is important for the Center Party? I'll take some things very concretely. For us, what's happening on Andøya is very important. We hope that we now get in place Andyya Spaceport, but we're not done with it. We want to further develop the environment on Andøya, beyond what is now there. So, we thought that the industry was intensifying systematic and good cooperation with the authorities. For this reason, we suggest something that can be heard in a harsh way – an action plan and a strategic advice, which the industry has asked for. Another thing that's important for nutrition, and that doesn't create the big headlines, is the follow-up media for space nutrition. That's where the Center Party thinks we're going to have a mandatory escalation plan for them, so that the industry knows what they're up to in the years to come. For the Centre Party, the prudence and cleanliness of international cooperation are also very important. This does not apply only to the EU space programme. The Central Party is also concerned that our international cooperation should not be confined to the EU and ESA, but should go further and also in contact with other countries. It's a paradox that what might have created the great commitment to space in the nutrition committee in its time was when Monica Meland proposed to cut pretty much what was of money. The whole thing got the money back in, and I think I was one for too many people about how important this industry is. A sixth point of the Centre Party is to develop a good and relevant study provision for the industry. The next point the centre part is occupied by, is to strengthen the infrastructure, develop the laboratory capacity, etc. We have also, together with the Workers' Party and SV, joined a national space-based enterprise centre in Tromsø. We see that we are not getting multiples for that now, but the central party would like to support the proposal for Decision II in the setting subsidiary. Then it's clear that we're doing it, and it's hopefully a consensual committee that's behind all the decisions that lie here. I just want to end by saying that there is a very increasing and good commitment to the space industry in the committee. I think it's noticed by the industry, I think it's noticed by the rest of the Storting, that one takes this industry more seriously than one might have done before. I don't think one is a whole thing, but it's an industry that does a lot of exciting and fun, so the ability to create extra engagement should definitely be present. I want to thank the industry for the recordings and the commitment they have had in this process, which has made the setting as good as it has been, in addition to the good cooperation that has been between the parties in the committee in this, whether it has been the opposition party or the position party. Finally – I take this in a slightly different order – I would like to thank the case-speaker, who, at least until the debate started, had done an excellent job, but who also held a glittering two-introduction on the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e554	Then we've got a room message again. It's been 7 years since the last time, and before there again it was 26 years since we had a message about the space business in Norway. And with the development of the space industry, maybe both 26 years and 7 years in general are long, so my wish is that we can get a space message for treatment in this room a little bit more often than in 26 years or 7 years, respectively. I think it's important for the space industry to have something more to deal with, and a little bit more often. The message is good, but it also gets some criticism because it is not concrete enough in certain areas – as concrete as someone might wish. At the same time, what I started with is so that the development of this industry takes place incredibly quickly, and what was right and important yesterday, it's not sure that is so right and important today. It may even be out of date today. Space and space industries are fresh, so it is also very difficult to be accurate and very concrete in such a communication. The progress party has long been busy with one thing, and that's Andøya Spaceport. Not building out Andeya Spaceport. I don't want to say that we're standing by in the space industry, that is, we're taking a step back. This is an incredibly important project for the advance and development of the Norwegian space industry and industry — an industry that now includes not only state agencies and government involvement, but also private, through industry and parts supplies and the construction of rocket engines and rockets. Kongsberg and Raufoss are two who are heavy inside it, but they also have their subcontractors, and this is starting to be business in private business. That's something we have to accept with joy and try to develop forward. When the space industry began in Norway and the state initiative, it was important, as it has been said, to make the country go in and be a catalyst to get things going, but the more important it is that we facilitate the conditions for just private business, so that they can come in and contribute with both competence and investment and be involved in developing industry and industry in a good way. I feel that I am well cared for through the message. Then there's one thing that's also important when we're talking about space activities and what's happening in space. These space programmes and what we're doing cover a lot of areas, for both navigation and surveillance of the north, but what's particularly important is what's safe to do. Space and space industries have an exposed infrastructure. It is important to take care of, and it should be focused. One thing is that many of the civil services we have, which are societally critical, go through satellite communications. Satellites are exposed, but there are also download stations, i.e. satellite bases on Earth. So having back-up systems is incredibly important for us to be able to do the societally critical tasks of which the space industry and satellites are part. I hope it will be focused on it in the future as well, and I see in the message that the government has a lot of attention on it, but there is something that should not be down-prioritized in any way. The party of progress is in favour of the majority observations on the matter, even though we were unable to enter them in the course of the first submission by means of an incursion. Now we've got it fixed, so there's no doubt that we're supporting it. We also support the proposals in the vote. We have also considered some of the proposals from the red-red opposition, but we have not yet concluded there. Most likely we won't support any of those proposals, but it depends a little on what the Council of State says in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e569	It is good that we now have a new and more up-to-date strategy for the Norwegian space industry. But even though the space strategy is lagging behind, it could have been better. We need a more offensive and clear space strategy with concrete measures that give us a clear understanding of how to build this new and exciting industry. That is why, in conjunction with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, we have put forward a number of proposals to improve the strategy. Good research environments, exciting educational opportunities and highly skilled labour are important factors for the further development of the technology and knowledge-enhancing industry of the space industry. Increased space activity can also provide us with more knowledge that can help solve more challenges, as well as having a major impact on maritime safety. A small country such as Norway has a major role to play in the global security policy situation. Our country must be the driver of fair rules of play in space. In particular, given that large private actors are looking at the possibilities of exploiting space resources, clear rules are important which also take into account small countries. Norwegian space activities can become a technology adventure for us Nordics, and the strategy we are dealing with today is about industrial policy, innovation and value creation. We have come a long way in ESA cooperation, business clusters are being developed in Tromsø and Svalbard, and satellite technology can help improve environmental monitoring, map data, security and the development of different types of new infrastructure solutions for many types of industries. In order for Norway to become the leading space nation in the Arctic, we need a plan. We're going to need a lot more competence and labour. We need a more comprehensive and long-term space policy that takes greater educational policy action to meet the demand. We should facilitate more research projects and strengthen the provision of study space by providing an offer that is relevant to the industry, practical areas related to education, so that we can provide the skills we need in a long-term perspective. It is also important that Norway commits to the EU space programme and initiates other important international cooperation in space activities. I would also like to mention that this space strategy is primarily about industrial policy. There are some security policy benefits of having capacity for space activities. For example, we will be more independent of others and therefore will be better able to assert sovereignty. But SV is critical of including defence policy in this. We are concerned that space will be a new arena for arms race and upgrading, and are therefore disappointed that the government seems to have embarked on a new line in space policy where Norwegian spacecapability will defend Norwegian military interests. It may contribute to more tension and uncertainty and potentially turn Andeya into a military goal. We from SV are going to work against this development. SV is very pleased that an overall committee is in favour of launching the implementation of Andeya Spaceport. It is important for Andøya, who has been hit by a systematic decline over the year. When the state intervenes so extensively in a small community, it is also fair to point to Andøya as an area of activity for space activities in Norway. The transition Andøya as a society has stood in has not been as good as it should have been, and we see this as an opportunity to raise large areas of competence in Andeya. In fact, it was just to be lacking that we are preparing for the Andey community, so that they get as soft a landing as possible after what they've been through. We know that satellites as part of an increasingly interconnected world are becoming even more important. Getting this environment in place is going to give us a great advantage, and we now have the opportunity to take a leading role and create a high-tech environment that makes Norway and Andøya face up to a technological development we have no idea of the extent of. We have also received input from the fishing industry in Andøya that this may have some impact on fisheries. That is why, today, we are tabling a loose proposal asking the government to: ‘examined the impact of the implementation of Andøya SpacePort on the fishing industry and engage in dialogue with the industry in order to develop remedial measures to ensure a continued strong fishing industry in Andøya and its neighbourhoods’. We do so in view of the need to ensure good measures for this industry as well, while at the same time realizing Andøya Spaceport. And we hope to support our proposal. I finally brought up the SV's proposal on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e599	The representative Katrine Boel Gregussen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e604	Norway has a thriving space activity with an increasing number of high-tech jobs across the country. The activities of space are innovative, international activities which also help Norway to fulfil important national tasks related to sovereignty, maritime surveillance, environmental monitoring and communication in the north. Space infrastructure can be of great importance in achieving all the visions we have for smarter cities, more efficient use of natural resources, more efficient agriculture and higher precision in the development of roads and infrastructure. For social security and the exercise of sovereignty too, space activities are of great value. Norwegian space activities are important in view of Norway’s special position as a population small Arctic nation with a large sea area with significant economic and strategic interests. It is gratifying that a total accumulation stands behind the bet at Andøya Space Center. The base is important for the visibility of the Norwegian space industry in Europe and can be used for the construction of a Helen industry that can deliver throughout the food chain. This includes everything from the design, development and launch of small satellites to the download and processing of data. The launch base will strengthen Norway's autonomy and competitiveness, both civil and military, in areas where we currently rely on foreign suppliers. In addition, this will be very well located in view of the deployment of satellites in polar orbits for Earth observation, and this will give Norway a competitive advantage over operators with less favourable location. That's why it was a happy day when my party colleague, Minister of Industry, Iselin Nybø, and the government released the news that it was to be invested up to 365 million. NOK to build Andøya Spaceport. Andøya Spaceport is a very exciting project that can provide both jobs in Andøya and interesting opportunities for further development of Norway as a space nation. The space industry is an internationally oriented industry. Good cross-border cooperation is important and it is essential that Norway participates in international programmes through the EU and other allies. Participation in ESA programmes is very central to the development of the Norwegian space industry. ESA is responsible for most cooperation projects in Europe, and Norwegian participation is of high strategic importance for Norway and Norwegian business. The EU research programme and the EU space programme are becoming an increasingly important area for the development of European cooperation in space activities. Norway benefits greatly from participating in the Copernicus Earth observation programme. Europe’s desire to become independent of the major powers has made Galileo an important satellite navigation system under civil control with global coverage. On behalf of the Left, I have to say that it is important that we continue the good cooperation we have, among other things. with the EU in this area. International cooperation is also important for the recruitment of industry and the development of knowledge in industry. The Rome industry is a knowledge-intensive sector. Therefore, competence through education and research is very important. In particular, technological competence is sought by the enterprises. We need to get on with this. So it's not going to come from the fact that there are also some challenges with the space industry. It's not just on Earth people sibling. There's also a lot of trash in space. The space trash consists of a lot of different things, everything from large satellites that are no longer in use to rocket storage, and more. So these are man-made things that are no longer useful, but that are not cleared, because they are expensive and difficult. Although much of the garbage burns up when it finally falls to the ground, it gets very drowsy for many, many years. It is very important that we, as politicians, demonstrate that we are aware of this challenge, because litter needs to be avoided in general and because the garbage can actually damage operating satellites and other equipment used in space. It also applies to the industries, that they take it seriously themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e622	On 29 November 2016, the Stortinget made a unanimous decision asking the government to develop a Norwegian space strategy. While it has taken time to sign out that decision, the government has now chosen to draw up its own forecasting message in which strategies for Norwegian space activities will be described in detail in the coming years. It's good, and it's time. The last time the Stortinget dealt with a big deal about Norwegian space policy, was in spring 2013. Over the years that have gone on since then, there has been tremendous progress in this area. One of the most important developments is that private actors are at full speed into space as suppliers of technology to boost payloads and people in space. The company that's been most prominent in this way is SpaceX in the United States. Last year, the company raised a payload of 60 small satellites for telecommunications, and a little over a week ago, the Dragon capsule with two astronauts on board was sent up to the International Space Station. It's the first time in history that a private actor has sent people into space. Technological innovations and fairer deployment solutions are also of great interest to Norway, as we have so far had limited opportunities to acquire and launch our own satellites. Another development is the strong growth in the downstream space sector, where commercial opportunities open up for the production and sale of goods and services based on the use of sensor data, satellite communications and satellite navigation services. It is in this way interesting that Norway also contributed to the implementation of its SpaceX Dragon project by downloading and disseminating spacecraft data via Norwegian ground stations. We also see social security, preparedness and defence becoming an increasingly important driving force in the development of space technologies and the use of space. This means that in Norway too, we need to strengthen and further develop our own capacity in this area. In sum, these trends show that the government’s forecast came in time, not one day too early. The four main objectives of Norwegian space activities mentioned in the Communication are priorities that are important and on which we in the Christian People's Party fully support. We are particularly pleased that an overall committee addresses the need for a national space programme that enables Norway to bet on where we have our industrial advantages, while addressing the programme in particular national needs. The Committee points out that a national space programme should have as its central objective the construction of a stronger Norwegian value chain in satellites by investing in what could become Europe’s first space port in Andeya. Furthermore, a Joint Committee points out that the Programme should focus on the need for industrial competence in the years to come, as well as the strengthening and instrumentation of research activity. It is also very important that a space programme also includes instruments such as national accompanying instruments in the European Space Programme. Through these funds, we build Norwegian knowledge and technology that can be used as a platform for further growth internationally. The main signal given by a Joint Committee in the report setting. However, St. 10, it is important that Norway realises Andøya Spaceport and invests and provides grants of the magnitude needed to get started. The space industry, together with educational and research environments, is in agreement that this is the largest growth impulse the sector can have at national level. There is also a European space race in progress, with several countries aiming to be the first to set up launch capacities for small satellites. With the broad cross-political consensus that has now been reached in the form of decisions to ask the government to implement the plans for Andyya Spaceport as quickly as possible, we in Norway are a long step forward in winning that race. This is also good news for a community that is in a tough transition process. The establishment of Andøya Spaceport will mean hundreds of new skills jobs and exciting development opportunities as a European centre for this type of deployment capacity. Now space policy also becomes good district policy, and nothing can be better, from the point of view of the Christian People's Party. Then there is also a couple of important points where the opposition and the government parties do not agree. While the opposition wants and points to Tromsø as a national space-based activity centre, government parties ask that the need for such a centre be addressed, including any appropriate location. Like our government partners, we also believe that the opposition's wish to establish a strategic Council for Norwegian space activities has already been respected by empowering Norwegian Rome Centre in the 2020 letter of assignment to establish a technical council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e643	The last time a strategic review of Norwegian space policy was in connection with the Storing Communication between Heaven and Earth: Norwegian space activities for industry and utility – in 2013. The fact that the government is choosing to re-examine now is due to today's raging developments in the space sector, the importance of space and satellite services to Norwegian society and the strategic importance of space in military, civil and future value creation. In the work on space communication, the government has focused on getting input from businesses, business and other stakeholders. Space activities engage and inspire — including here on the Stortinget. I feel that there is a broad political consensus on the broad lines of the Norwegian space policy. Norwegian State investment in space is beneficial, with emphasis on industrial development and concrete national user needs within – yes, almost all sectors of society. The government has four objectives for Norwegian space activities: to promote profitable enterprises, growth and employment; to meet key societal and user needs. ensuring adequate security of societally important space infrastructure; ensuring Norwegian foreign, security and defence policy interests in space and outer space; The importance of utility and industry remains constant and international cooperation remains the cornerstone of Norway’s efforts. We will continue to participate actively in ESA, and we will also assess our further participation in EU space programmes from 2021. In addition, we focus on safeguarding societal space infrastructure and securing Norwegian interests in foreign, security and defence policy. Among other things, we work with a new space law to ensure timely and forward-looking regulation in this area. The approach to the organisation of space activities is pragmatic, with a focus on exploiting available opportunities that can meet national needs in a cost-effective way, often through international cooperation, sometimes through the development of solutions under national law. Space Norway's project for broadband communications in the northern regions illustrates this well. Norway has a special need for communication in the north, but the solution is found in cooperation with others. The project is State owned, with commercial customers, and has been possible through civil-military international cooperation. We're going to continue to take advantage of our strange advantage, and And Islanda is one of the few places in Europe where it can be possible to shoot up satellites. I am pleased that we have the whole Storting in our backs when we say that we will contribute to the realisation of Andøya Spaceport, provided of course that the company is able to develop a profitable business model that is consistent with the State aid rules of the EEA Agreement. Norwegian space industry is a high-tech industry that benefits strong international competition, and space technology enables innovation and development throughout industry. With this space communication, we provide the basis for a forward-looking Norwegian space activity that contributes to the creation of value added and sustainable growth that benefits the entire community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e678	In my opinion, some of the most important thing we will be allowed to do today is to decide that the government has to make sure to build Andeya Spaceport. But we're not doing it today; it's in the crisis package, called Prop. 127 S for 2019-2020, which will be discussed next Friday. The proposal for allocation has been promoted there with three assumptions, the first of which is that equity must be expected to provide the country with a return equivalent to that which a rational market investor would have accepted. The world is a little different now than it was just at the beginning of March. The interest rate has gone against zero, security of return in a hard-tested business has changed. The Council of State stated that it must be a profitable investment. How profitable does the Council of State see that it has to be? What return would a rational market investor have accepted to invest in Europe's first small satellite launch base?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e685	What the representative and the rapporteur raise is the job they're doing up on Andøya right now. It's a very exciting project, and many people are interested in that project. Actually, the situation in the world may be a little bit different right now than it was a few months ago, but when we talk about this industry, this kind of business development, the lines are long. It also has some strategic meanings and there are decisions to be taken by different stakeholders out there. My view of creating a commercially profitable model is that there is something we agree that must be on the ground, and that Andøya himself wants. They want to be part of an industrial adventure. My opinion is that it works well, and I have good faith that they will be able to make a model and also bring with them other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e692	I'm going to go to EU funds, and then I'm going to get back to the return claim if I get a third line. We know that the Norwegian space industry creates very large values when they can participate in international programmes. Traditionally, the main programmes have been in ESA, but EU programmes are becoming increasingly important: Copernicus on Earth observation, Galileo on communication, and also EGNOS. The communication on space industry raises uncertainty as to whether Norway will participate in the EU programmes in the future. NIFRO, the association for the Norwegian space industry, says that it has given bad signals to the partners that industry has in Europe, whether Norway is going to be relevant cooperatives in the future. And then it's said in the comments on this case, in the position, that it's because you don't know exactly what the budget in 2021 is like. But I see that, in March 2020, the government colleague of the Council of State, Asheim, seems to have pushed for us to participate in the EU's Horizon Europe research programme. So does the government have ambitions to participate in EU space programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e699	There is no doubt that international cooperation is important in terms of this industry and development here. We're in ESA today. We are in the space programmes today, which have had a major impact on the development of technology, on the development of industry and on the environment that we also have in Norway. So it's the Storting that needs to make a decision whether we're still going to be part of the EU programmes. It's new programs. It's not just the space programs, it's like this all over the world. We're working on that right now. There's something we're looking up against the state budget that we're making for the autumn, and that's when the Stortinget gets the opportunity to decide whether or not to join. But that it has been of great importance, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e706	In my post I was a little concerned about how often, or not often, such a message has come to Stortinget. I was also concerned about how concrete or not such a message is and can be. The red-red opposition has put forward a number of proposals, including: a proposal to draw up a concrete action plan for the space industry. My question to the Council of State is: How does she view the development of such an action plan, and how does she manage to follow a concrete action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e713	What I think is challenging with the proposal from the Reds is that a concrete action plan for the space industry should be drawn up through a national space programme. And that could give you a little bit of association to have a state Apollo program. We won't. Our space policy has been myth-based. Our space policy is about the cooperation between industry and research and the development environment. It still has to. We spend a lot of money on this today, we're in ESA, we're in EU space programmes, and I'm concerned that we need to keep focus on what's going on in space. It's something that has long lines, but it happens a lot in a short time. And I fully agree with the representative that it has been a little too long since Stortinget finally received a message like this. How we're going to do it in the future, we're going to get back to, but that the Storting should discuss this more often, I totally agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e718	It really fits that the former Minister of Industry has come to the Chamber, which I tried to boast because her cut in the space program created a strong commitment, which one still lives on in this room. Today, however, it is also the case that the Red-Green Parties, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, have proposed to ensure Norwegian participation in the EU space programme between 2021 and 2027, that a national follow-up plan is desirable. This cache message is designed to ensure that this should not be too much trouble. And when one goes against this kind of proposal, it becomes a little uncertain, and my question is: can the Council of States guarantee that one will continue, at least for the next year, in the EU space programme and that one will have national resources at least at the present level and preferably with a stepping-up plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e725	The representative knows very well that it is through the budgets that we take these decisions, and that this will be decided on as a budget for the budget. As far as EU space programmes are concerned, we have been involved in this before, and we are now going to make a decision on whether to continue to participate in the new programmes that are now being presented. That decision will be taken until the autumn. That's part of the budgetary work that we're working on now, and that we're going to present. It is clear that as a former research minister, I am very concerned about the significance of this. I am also now the Minister of Industry – the link between industry and research, the link between industrial development and research is important, not least it is in this area. But now the system is such that in terms of these EU programmes, a decision is made for one year, and that is the end of the period. Now the period for the existing programmes is over, and we have to make a decision in the budget if we're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e733	I thank you for your answer. Some of the criticisms of this big message are that although it gives a good description of the situation and points out some directions, it lacks, as well as the concrete thing to do. Then I understand that it is difficult to take the most concrete things into a big message, and that it should be worked out afterwards. I record that in response from the representative Ørsal Johansen it was said that what is the problem with proposal No. One is that it says it will take place ‘through a national space programme’. I think I agree with the Council's description of what a national space programme is not. My question is, in fact, seeing the Council of State independently of proposal No. 1 the need to develop a concrete action plan for the space industry after this big message and in cooperation with the space industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e742	I am pleased that the representative also sees that not all measures can be included in a big message, because it comes later. Things are happening in a furious development. This with Andøya Spaceport is an example of something that has happened after the staging message was submitted. The decision on the EU space programme is something that needs to be taken after the launch of the Storing Communication. When it comes to dealing with this issue in the future, I am a little uncertain whether there is an action plan that is the best way to do it. We spend a lot of money today on both the research side and through ESA, and Norwegian Romsenter manages money. So we're spending considerable money on this right now. I believe we should continue to do so – we must continue to develop this industry. I also believe that Stortinget must have such matters dealt with more often than now. But if it is through an action plan, I am more uncertain about it. I think we have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e749	We from SV want to welcome this amazing project on Andøya Spaceport, and we want the great enterprise in business policy that it is. We've previously sent questions to the government's government to guarantee that the satellite base on Andeya will not be used for military purposes, and that the base will not be able to contribute to increased tension in the northern regions. The short answer to that was that no, it could not be guaranteed by the Council of State. We're very critical of that, and we're going to work hard to change the defense policy line that it's being put up to here. So I wonder, to what extent and in what way does the Council of State think that the base should be used for military purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e756	Firstly, I see that there is a broad majority on the Stortinget that sees the importance of this launch base also in a defence and security aspect. It's also part of the strategic thinking in those areas. So it's quite right, as the representative says, that the answer to the question that was sent is no. It's also no because Kongsberg is on the owner's side up on Andeya. Who, if any, will be involved in the project currently under discussion, is still unclear, but that there may also be military activities related to it. But then it is also important to clarify that this must be done in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in this country. So we've also seen good control of how it's used.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e761	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e768	The geographical location of Norway means that we have had and have a unique opportunity to develop within space activities. This has also meant that Norway is important in an international context. Our huge sea areas, our high activity in maritime transport, and not least our activity around the resources of the sea, make us very useful to satellites for communication, navigation and surveillance. There is no doubt that Norwegian space activities are an important contributor to the value creation of the Norwegian economy, both as an industry itself and as a support function for other industries. Norwegian space industry is a result of long-term investment from both governments and businesses. One might say that this is a good example of public-private cooperation, where public funding for research, development and infrastructure has supported under long-term investment in Norwegian business. It is gratifying that a Joint Nutrition Committee supports what is happening on Andøya and with Andøya Spaceport. The Industry Committee asks the Government to ensure that Andøya Spaceport is realised as quickly as possible. Before we have adopted this today, the government has proposed 365 million. kr in funding for the establishment of Andøya Spaceport, which is a launch base for small satellites. It might well be to act quickly. Andøya Spaceport has been working on this project for some years now, and it has changed form along the way, but that this is a unique opportunity for Norway to take an international position, there is no doubt. The right and the government have supported this job through the different phases, and now we are there that the money is proposed to continue the work and hopefully get to the goal. I've been following this project since the beginning and hope I can join in watching the first satellite fired from Andeya Spaceport. This is an important investment and opportunity that will ensure skills and skills jobs in the north. When this is done in an industry that can have a high growth potential in the coming years, it will help to give us more legs to stand on. We're going to make sure that the business community dares to bet and enter some unknown waters, but with safe management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e781	I'd like to think like many others that this is a joyous day, and it's a result of long, hard working here in Stortinget. I was in 2016 and took the initiative, together with the SV’s local representative at the time, Snorre Serigstad Valen, and several others, to a Document 8 proposal where we wanted a new national space strategy. The government was positive then, and has worked for a long time with what has now become this big message. Unfortunately, I think work has taken a very long time. The strategy and the call for proposals have been postponed and postponed and postponed, but finally something came up, and it is worth celebrating and marking. I saw the importance of this exciting and important industry when I was at the oil fair in Stavanger a few years ago. Of all things, NASA was present in Stavanger. They were there because, initially, stricter demands are often made on some of the technological devices we have in the North Sea than are made on the things NASA sends up in space. They were in Norway to see, with great interest, the technology skills we have here. For example, Comrod, a rather small company in Rogaland, has delivered the radar to NASA Mars-Rover – an exciting project that underlines that this is an industry that should get more attention and that has not least an enormous potential for more jobs and further growth. That's why I think it's a pity that the process of the big message and the strategy has taken so long. I find it a pity that this government is so little ambitious. There has been a reduction in the important accompanying instruments that have given industry important assignments and that have contributed to new projects, and there has been considerable uncertainty over Norwegian participation in EU and ESA programmes for several years. Luckily, it has been suggested that a cut has been avoided, and unfortunately, the government will not be able to say today that one should continue to participate in the further programmes. There has also been uncertainty about Andyya Spaceport for a long time – too long – but I am pleased that it has now been clarified to a greater extent. There are too few ambitions from the government on behalf of an industry that is exciting and has enormous opportunities. I hope that one in the future can dry to dream bigger. I think it is a pity that the Labour Party's proposal for a national space programme is being put down, because Norway has a great potential here. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is important that a small country such as Norway also participates in the international debate on space, that not only the United States, China and Russia are allowed to dominate in that discussion. That is why we were important in the development of maritime legislation, and it is also important for the development of space law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e794	When the Workers' Party has proposed a national space programme, it is that if we create our own national programme, we decide on it and ask the companies to participate in developing the parts of the industry that are most important to us as a nation. When we participate in the ESA programmes and in the EU programmes, they are often able to generate added value in Norway, but we do not control the device on their own. The initiative on Andøya Spaceport believes the Workers' Party is a good opportunity to create a national programme that sets out the value chains related to satellites. Unfortunately, we do not get the government parties on the proposal, and there is reason to note that the opposition has a much greater desire to bet on satellites in Norway and the entire value chain associated with it. I think we'll in any case get a growth impulse within this industry because you get access to launch capacity. It is regrettable that there is uncertainty about Norway to participate in EU programmes from 2021. There is a longer programming period to be included, and it is important for the industry that their international partners know whether they are involved in the EU programmes. I would like to remind you that Galileo, which determines positioning within a European controlled system, is very important for Norway, and it is also the Earth observation programmes. I noticed that I did not receive a response to what the government has planned to do with the Andøya Spaceport investment. It was answered that Andøya Spaceport is now operating and answering a number of questions related to it. I'm aware of that, but just as far as the return requirements you choose to set for it to be a business investment, the government and the department are responsible. I hope you do not waste a great opportunity for Norway to build important infrastructure by making wrong demands in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e805	I only have a brief explanation of vote on proposal No. 10, from SV, a loose suggestion. Of course, the development of Andyya Spaceport must be carried out in cooperation and dialogue with the fishing industry, and one must consider remedial measures. But I feel it is wrong to decide on this kind of relatively detailed thing. Next Friday there will be a treatment and a formal decision on the allocation of capital to the project, and that is where it is most right to accept such a claim. There is already a government statement that you should have dialogue with other industries and find solutions to this. That is why we do not support proposal No. 10, from SV, and I assume that the other parties largely support such a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e812	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e829	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e836	The Judicial Committee has examined a proposal for a representative on new instruments to combat crime in the context of the Korona crisis. The proposal contains two points. One point is the proposal that the government should promote its own package of measures, a crime package, with the necessary means for action in relation to things happening during the Korona crisis. With regard to that proposal, a broad majority of the Committee – with the exception of the Progress Party, which is the proposers – has said that we believe it is natural to deal with new budgetary resources during the budgetary process we are now receiving, first under the revised budget and then under the government budget for the autumn. The review of the revised budget, where the various parties have their proposals, comes so quickly that it is most natural to take this up there. I think we agree that there is still a need for special measures, but that should be done within the budget procedure of Stortinget, which is right around the corner. That proposal has not been approved by the Committee. The second proposal, on more specific measures aimed at what is happening during the coronary crisis, has been discussed by the Committee. I would first like to say that there is a committee description of developments in terms of the possibility of exploiting the arrangements we have put in place during the coronary crisis – such as the compensation scheme for business and private individuals, and the rules on permitting. Much of this is based on trust and requires quite extensive control activities to be followed closely. I think most of us have noticed that when we go around the street, we get a lot of messages that that company does it like that, while that company doesn't do it like that. So there's a lot of different practices in the border country against the exploitation of the schemes. There's a lot there's a need to look at here. We rely a lot on trust in Norway. We will continue to do that, but there is also a need for better control of how the schemes are now used. Perhaps especially when the corona crisis begins to wane seriously and extensively, it will be very important to look at abuse. Two proposals are made, both by a majority in the Committee. One has a broad majority and deals with the sharing of relevant register information, including reasons. the need to look at the functioning of the permitting arrangements. The second is a proposal to review the threat assessment of Ecocrim and to put measures in place in this context. Both proposals are presented by the Committee, and I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e851	Today, we are discussing the proposal of the Progress Party on better instruments to combat crime during the Korona crisis. We fully agree with the proposers that any change in the crime scene must be closely monitored and met with effective action. The response letter from the Council of State mentions initiatives taken to get an overview of both the situation in Norway, the resource situation in the police and the work on legislative changes that can facilitate the sharing of information related to confidentiality. The right fully agrees with the proposers that the exchange of information in the public sector can be very important for the prevention and investigation of crime. The obligation of professional secrecy must not prevent the police from receiving important information from the public that can solve crime. This is a matter the right has been busy for a long time. The government is currently examining the investigation of new administrative laws. The investigation proposes inter alia: to provide greater access to the sharing of confidentiality-related information between administrative bodies. As a result of the covid-19 outbreak, 400 new police officers have been added. This is done to improve the ability of the police to deal with various challenges that may arise at this particular time. Ten million have also been proposed in the context of the revised national budget. extra to police prevention of online abuse. This is particularly important at a time when a fear that several children may have been exposed to this type of crime. The government follows closely the situation and will return, if necessary, to the Storting with proposals for further action. To the proposal to review the threat assessment of Ecocrim – this is something that is done continuously. It is always up to the Minister of Justice to assess the threat in different crime fields and then to set up resources. We therefore believe that the government has adapted to the current situation in Norway and closely monitor developments, and that the police have the tools needed right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e866	We've been through – and we're in – a special time that requires a lot of us. It requires a lot of our society, but it also shows how well, well-run and great this society works through the trust we show each other, and on which our society depends. It is a trust-based society that works when necessary, even in exceptional situations, mostly – not for everyone, but mainly. But it's a challenge because in the trust we show each other, we also open up a room for those who will abuse that trust. Those who want to use a difficult and special situation for their own benefit, criminal opportunists who do not shade the path in order to exploit the vulnerable situation in which we are, must be combated. It is about the legitimacy of our society, the legitimacy of law and order. It is important that we manage to combat these elements in a good way. Then you have to have the necessary tools, the necessary tools, the necessary tools to fight crime that is very damaging to society and that only help to break down the trust I had at first. That is why I am very pleased that the main proposal put on the table by the Progress Party, which we are going to be discussing today, actually receives a very broad majority in the Chamber today. It's about sharing information that's crucial for fighting crime. The authorities that are to follow it up and stop crime must have access to that information. And then we'll have to make sure that more division is done. I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee has taken on board the consequences of this, and that the Progress Party will have a majority in favour of this proposal today. In addition, we have another suggestion. It is true, as the rapporteur pointed out, that it is about the financial framework in order to implement an even better effort to combat crime. We take note of the evaluations made by the Committee, but the most important proposal we have made is that we have received a majority in favour. I would like to take up with that the proposal that we have left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e877	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e882	The centre party is very pleased with the initiative of the proposers, and we fully agree with the rest of the committee that good cross-border cooperation is very important to combat crime. With regard to the concrete proposal to ensure that relevant register information can be shared between public administrations, we have recorded that the Minister of Justice, in his letter to the Justice Committee, says that there is something the Department is working on and that there will be a consultation note with proposals for rules on increased access to the sharing of information relating to confidentiality, which is a follow-up to previous decisions. In this case, we think it is right to await what proposals for rules come from the department. In many cases, the sharing of confidentiality-related information is crucial for combating crime, but there are other considerations, such as: privacy considerations, and that is why we believe that we want to see what the ministry does about assessments and limitations of these things. Although most people follow the rules of the game in the time we are in now, we fully agree with the Progress Party that we must ensure that we prevent the abuse and exploitation of the arrangements that Norway has put in place to mitigate the coronary crisis, and generally prevent the exploitation of the vulnerable situation that the country and its people are currently experiencing. We expect and trust that the government will follow it up in a good way. The centre party believes that there are many other measures that are very important to ensure a better fight against crime. Since the beginning, we have been a clear opponent of the police reform, which we believe has led to a major centralisation of the police and a weakening of local presence and investigation capacity in the police. The police resource situation has been critical for many years. The Centre Party has also proposed for several years to give priority to measures against border crime and to improve the conditions under which the customs office is to operate, inter alia. to detect and combat labour crime and economic crime, which is a very major problem in Norwegian society. The Central Party will continue to work to strengthen police, border control and customs and to strengthen efforts to combat economic crime, labour crime and other crime on a general basis, both in the special situation we are currently facing, and otherwise, outside a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e895	We are discussing here a proposal from the Progress Party related to a concern about the development of crime in the wake of the pandemic. The Progress Party refers to a Europol report, but does not really show the exact findings of Norway. What's interesting about this case is that the big concern we might have had a few months ago about crime, hasn't hit. Overall, crime in Norway is still low, and the Minister of Justice also confirms in his letter to the Committee that crime has not really gone up. That is why this is not necessarily as innocent as it appears, because the Progress Party is really following a well-known track here. They want to take a picture of a crime, an exaggerated picture of a crime, a kind of danger that exists, in order to encourage a sense of insecurity among the population, and then come back with more stringent measures. However, it is not in this proposal – and it is also confirmed in the Minister of Justice’s letter – that there is a particular need for some exceptional measures. So the premise and the narrative that the Progress Party tried to draw up initially is not right. But I will also give tribute to the Progress Party, because during the process in the Justice Committee we drew close to each other, and we actually managed to get a position here with a significant share of joint comments and a common problem description that the Committee could broadly support. In this way, the Progress Party shall have the honour of listening to the understanding of other members of the Committee. SV's main concern during the pandemic crisis may not have been the type of crime we've been talking about today. It has been linked to the fact that in vulnerable families, women and children may have been confined to people with poor care, and we have probably, without evidence, had an overgathering of violence in close relationships. It is striking that this is not what we have received reports from both health services, child protection and the police, the Progress Party is gripping. Fortunately, the Minister of Justice does so in his letter of reply to the Committee. As for the reason that SV will not be on the point of register information, it is actually because we are behind what the Minister of Justice himself writes to us. The Minister of Justice is putting up here with a process where we are going to get back to this, that this of sharing register information and sensitive information should be processed after a proper process. I think there are so many uncertainties about this that it is doubtful whether this should be dealt with in a rapid procedure like this. I rather support what comes from the Minister of Justice, than what the majority in this House is in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e914	Let me start by making sure that the government follows, of course, the trend of global crime. We are aware of the situation in other countries and assessments carried out by international organisations, such as Europol. The need for increased resources, legislative changes or measures to prevent or combat crime, if any, is based on the situation in Norway. On the basis of the proposals made by the representatives of the magnificence, the Police Directorate has now assessed the crime situation. Based on Økokrim’s threat assessment and Kripos’ situation update, the Directorate of Police considers that it cannot be established that labour or other crime is increasing in volume. But the covid-19 pandemic and economic uncertainty have created room for action on crime. Government compensation schemes are likely to attract criminal actors who want to seek profit. It is likely that fraud involving day-to-day money or other arrangements will also increase. Police point out that criminals will abuse the situation in order to commit fraud or crime in the digital space. We know that children and young people have had more opportunity to be in the digital space, arenas where parents have less overview. The police believe that criminals who commit violence and sexual abuse against children have scope for action in the area of abuse using digital solutions. The police budget is 20 billion. kr and the operating budget of more than 18 billion. kr. In this situation, the government has provided for the recruitment of 400 police officers in temporary posts, and proposals are made in the revised national budget, which further increases capacity. The government is proposing a 400 million measure package. kr for vulnerable children and young people. Increased appropriations to strengthen efforts to tackle Internet abuse are part of that package of measures. The police further develop prevention of abuse through online patrols and online services aimed at children. A cross-ministerial strategy on child abuse is being pursued, which is now being presented in 2020. We follow the government's situation carefully and continuously and assess the police's ability to act. Cross-judicial cooperation requires the possibility of sharing information. The administrative law committee presented legislative proposals in NOU 2019: 5 to facilitate effective proceedings. The document proposes to allow greater access to the sharing of confidentiality-related information. Following the proposal, information shall be shared in order to fulfil the tasks attached to the recipient body, which is not covered by the current legislation. We are now working on a consultation note on increased access to information. That proposal shall be sent to the hearing within a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e935	The Council of State mentions that it will come back to the Storting with proposals regarding the sharing of confidentiality-related information in order to combat crime. I have a question related to it, and that is whether it will also include what we have been dealing with in the Storting for several years now, namely sharing information when police, school, kindergartens, child protection, Nav, etc. co-operate on issues, e.g.: on violence in close relationships or children who are struggling with crime, where there is currently no way to talk about which children are involved. The police have taken this up with me repeatedly and have previously proposed to develop a guide on how to understand the obligation of professional secrecy, because there is an opportunity to make exceptions if it is best for the child. But nothing has happened that works, so there is still a very topical problem. I would like to ask whether there is also a problem that will be addressed in the work on this matter of confidentiality-related information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e942	What we're working on is a general rule related to this, a rule in the Administrative Act, which will include everything where information sharing is involved. This is something that concerns a lot of different fields, such as the fight against a-crime, vulnerable children and young people, economic issues – a lot of different things. What we're thinking of is a general rule that's to be followed by regulations in the different fields, and those regulations have to be developed by those who work in the field. For example, customs duties, ecocrims and more work in the a-krim field. The same is true of children. There, those involved in this must work, because there are some dilemmas about privacy. So we need to be able to share, at the best of our children in this case, but not so that you risk that information that can get out of hand does that. So this is something we're working on now in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e949	Thank you for your answer. I just want to stress that it is a big problem that those who are going to set up teams and work with children who can do things or be exposed to things from a young age, and who should be taken into account, experience that cooperation does not work. It doesn't help to talk nice about follow-up teams and a lot of different things if you can't take care of the specific children involved, and work together well on it. I want to ask about another thing, which concerns the coronary crisis and children and young people. These are the posts which are now granted exceptionally to the police temporarily. There's been talk about border control and different goals with it, but I also want to say that we've had a lot of serious incidents in youth environments with stabbing and the like, which have made the police have a lot to deal with now in the field of juvenile criminal environments, which are not fully understood. In view of these extraordinary positions, would it also be a point to look at several aspects?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e958	It is such that we have granted these posts in recognition of both the fact that the police have been given new tasks, for example. with border guards, that the police were in a situation of both infection and quarantine, and that we had to ensure that our police preparedness was maintained. It also means that we have entrusted the Police Directorate with allocating these posts in cooperation with the police officers in the various districts. Different districts will have different challenges. Some will have it on violence and youth violence and get allocated resources there; others will have it on violence in close relationships, which we believe there is great darkness at now. It could be in different areas. So we haven't done this in detail. Here we have great confidence that the police themselves know where they lack resources and where those resources need to be deployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e963	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e994	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1059	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1069	The law decision will be passed until a second time in a future meeting of the Stortinge. Case No. 2 was a statement from the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1083	A total of ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-9, by Åsunn Lyngedal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Katrine Boel Gregussen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of the implementation of Andøya SpacePort on the fishing industry and to engage in dialogue with the industry in order to develop remedial measures ensuring a continued strong fishing industry in Andøya and the neighbouring regions.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1109	Proposal No. 1-9, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a concrete action plan for the space industry through a national space programme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a stepping-up plan for the national accompanying means for space deployment in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a Strategic Council for the Development of Norwegian Space Activities as soon as possible, in line with the previous Stortinge Decision.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure continued Norwegian participation in the EU space programme between 2021 and 2027.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further development of international cooperation in space activities to ensure increased market access for Norwegian space industries.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the strengthening of the study offer with particular relevance for space activities, such as engineering courses including space satellite and ICT and space physics, and to assess the establishment of its own multidisciplinary study programmes in space activities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the professional environments around Norwegian space activities through investments in better laboratories, access to relevant infrastructure and several earmarked study places.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that high-quality areas of practice in the field of space activities in relevant education and to facilitate the mobility of competences between the university and higher education sectors and the labour market’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a national space-based centre in Tromsø.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1169	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1174	Then the result is 46 votes against the proposal and 42 votes against. - The proposals are therefore not adopted. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1201	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Greens have already received subsidiary support here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1230	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the allocation of the necessary funds through its own crime package as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1255	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1274	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-10.ana.ud451e1295	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
