ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e28	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e33	I have a personal pleasure, along with Karin Andersen, in proposing the statutory requirement for a logoped in the municipalities, so that everyone gets the language support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e54	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Iselin Nybø will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e63	In the last few weeks, there has been a lot of debate about the differences in Norway. It still has to become a debate about what's actually the facts, and not what we should do to get the differences between people down. I have registered that the Right has dismissed the property tax report from the Frischsenteret and the NMBU, which the government itself has asked for, and when the SSB has produced a report that the differences are greater than we had believed, Right answers that the report is a bit funny. There's something a little bit American about the way to approach the facts, and not in the good way. People should be able to trust that responsible parties do not practice their own alternative facts. I'm going to do both of us a service. All the facts I am now going to refer to in questions to the Minister of Finance have the Ministry of Finance as a source. So let's now take a discussion about inequality. According to the Ministry of Finance, capital income has "become more concentrated among the richest". It's on page 43 of the National Budget. One easier way to say it is that the richest have been richer. What does the Minister for Finance intend to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e74	I think the representative Hadia Tajik started very well, where she stressed the importance of having to discuss what we can do to get the differences down. That's something I'm busy about. But I think a little bit of the difference between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties is that the Workers' Party is unilaterally engaged in increasing the wealth tax, while we are concerned about seeing the people behind the numbers. We're concerned with the young people who drop out of high school and who quickly end up in unemployment. We are concerned with those with immigrant backgrounds who have problems getting into the labour market. We are concerned with vulnerable groups who are at risk of being pushed out permanently during the coronary crisis. That is what we are responding to in the State budget. It's about how we can get more people back to work, how we can create more jobs, and how we can include more people in the world of work. The figures to which reference is made from the national budget are, of course, quality assured and duly justified. We have a good tax system in Norway, where companies pay corporation tax, and then owners pay dividend tax when they take out money for their own consumption. What the discussion is about is whether we should have a separate tax for Norwegian owners, which non-resident owners of Norwegian companies do not pay. I think it's unfair. I believe it is important that we get more Norwegian owners, more local ownership. And perhaps especially in the crisis we are facing, which has affected private business, it is important that we give greater room for private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e85	I note that when I point out that the richest have been richer and ask what one intends to do, the Minister of Finance answers by pointing to vulnerable groups and including in the labour market, and I can assure the Minister of Finance that we will talk about it too. But what I'm asking about now is how the income from capital increases the difference, and now I'm referring to the inequality message, page 36, figure 2.12: The differences in the income from capital are the strongest contributor to the increased differences. The Minister of Finance used the word ‘unfair’ in his reply. Does it not seem to the Minister of Finance himself that it is unfair that one sees that the solid largest contributor to the increase in differences is the difference in income, and then does the government have no answer to what they want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e92	If the representative Hadia Tajik thinks that the problem is that someone has a big fortune, the way you can reduce inequality, to put it at the head, is an economic crisis. If we look at the period before the financial crisis, Norwegian business went well. It was good business. Then the property values went up. Then came the financial crisis. Then the wealth goes down, the inequality goes down, according to the statistics, too, but the unemployment rate goes up. Then the question is, what is it that you want to deal with as a politician? For me, the most important thing is to make sure that people have a job to do, because the greatest difference in our society is between those who are in work and those who are outcast by the world of work. So to reduce inequality, I think you have to look at more than just the tax on capital. You pay dividends on the money you take out for your own consumption, but to reduce inequality, you have to make sure that more people get opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e97	There will be follow-up questions – first Hadia Tajik.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e102	Then we have clarified a very distinctly different view of just the significance of capital income, where the finance minister believes that an economic crisis is the only way to deal with it, while the Labour Party has other answers. We believe that the richest have to pay more in taxes, we believe that the state must stop subsidising luxury consumption as a tax exemption on expensive electric cars, and we will redeploy better by financing the welfare state jointly and not by increasing the use of oil money. On page 42 of the national budget, the income of those at the bottom of the distribution of income has grown less than the median income. This is a number from after the year 2000. An easier way to say it is that ordinary wage earners have been dependent on income trends. The finance minister talks about everyone having a job to go to, but these are people who have a job to go to. What they're missing is a salary to live on. What does the Minister for Finance intend to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e109	What the bourgeois parties have done with it since we came into the government is that we have lowered the tax on ordinary people. If you compare the red-green tax arrangements from 2013 and move it up to today, if it had been at the bottom, a normal family would have paid $14,000 more in taxes. So in other words, most people have received lower taxes. In addition, we have introduced free core time for low-income families in kindergarten, we have introduced lower parental payments both in kindergarten and SFO for low-income families – that means far too many – and we have increased child benefit by over SEK 7 000, if we include what is in the next year’s government budget. It means a lot, and it means most to those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e114	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e119	I note that the Minister of Finance refers to eight-year-old figures when he is going to compare with the Labour Party's tax returns, and not what we have proposed in our alternative budget on the Stortinget. We have seen in the proposals for the government's government budget that one has increased the fees record. It goes right in the wallets of ordinary people. In reality, the government has reduced the amount of commuting, so that it becomes more expensive to go to work, and reduced the amount of trade union deduction, so that it is more expensive to be trade-organised. This does not contribute to a serious and organized working life, which would have meant that more people get a salary to live off. They should also do more to streamline the use of hired labour, but we can do our own rounds. What we see in the message of inequality, page 28, is that the differences in wealth increase. It also confirms the national budget, page 43. The richest tenth pays almost 90 pst. of the taxes on wealth. It writes the Ministry of Finance to the representative Kaski. My question is very simple: how can the Minister of Finance defend that one has given the richest ten percent of the country a direct transfer of about 8 billion. kr from the state budget for the last eight years, without any evidence other than that it reduces the money to common welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e127	The answer to Kaski, to which this is referred, is based on removing the entire property tax. It's not the government's policy. It's not the Right Policy either. We go in to escalate taxes on working capital because we believe it is important for Norwegian ownership. Then the representative is in on increased fees. Yes, it's about increasing environmental taxes. Increased environmental taxes are important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I thought the Workers' Party agreed. But to redistribute, we lower the tax on income at the same time, and it benefits those who earn the least, including pensioners. But back to the relief we have given in the property tax: it also benefits pensioners. There are many pensioners with paid houses who pay a high property tax. We've increased the bottom subtraction from about 800,000 kroner to 1.5 million dollars. kr. It means a lot, even for those who have problems getting their ends to meet. The other reliefs are to strengthen Norwegian private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e136	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e141	The changes in property taxes have not been primarily a good thing for pensioners who have money in their homes, but have mainly gone to those who have a lot of money, and in axles. My follow-up question goes to Iselin Nybø, and the theme is still inequality. For many years, the growth of rents has been a factor in the wage growth of ordinary workers. We see that in the country's ownership message, which is published annually. The country's own leaders are involved in increasing the differences between themselves and ordinary workers. In the past, the Council of State has said that it expects the government to take care of moderation, and that the company is open to the level and development of the lease receivables. The lack of moderation will be particularly unmusical right now, in the middle of a pandemic, where several people lose their jobs and have to go on social welfare, and where the community has set up large rescue packages. My question is, how has the government planned to stop the leadership pay gap in the state, as a means of increasing the differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e150	Let me first stress that it is the boards that set the salaries of the senior employees of the different companies. But on the government side, it is clear that we have some clear expectations that the salary level should be competitive, but not pay. That's the expectation we have for the board of the companies where we have interests. We also actively exercise our ownership through the general meetings, and express our opinion when needed. This year, too, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has had record entries related to management salaries – this year in two companies, both linked to moderation. In one case, we also voted against the proposal for the Governing Board's guidelines. It was DNB and Entra.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e157	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e162	Governments point to the control, point to their expectations, point to protocol inputs, but I don't hear much about action. The working party has several suggestions. We would like, among other things: change the country’s policy on rents so that it is stated that the country does not ‘should’ be a payleader. There will be an increase in relation to today, where it only says "should". We also want a rental commission and have the parties to get the rents down. We want to streamline the use of bonuses in the state. These are some examples of proposals that have been voted down by the right. Nevertheless, the government expects to be trusted when they haven't been able to do enough to bring down the payroll in the country for eight years. So my question is, how did the Council of State even think that it has gone when the leadership growth in the state under Erna Solberg seems to have lost all inhibitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e169	I'm not going to comment on the government's executive fees. The representative must ask another Council of States about that. I manage the ownership of the companies, and there the state is committed to being a professional, serious and long-term owner. That is why we also present our ownership policy in the ownership message, which has been widely discussed in Stortinget. I understand that the representative Hadia Tajik has great faith in the difference between ‘should’ and ‘must’. What has been important to me is to clearly communicate an expectation to the governments of the companies in which the state holds interests. We are quite clear that we must have competitive wages. We need that to ensure the skills needed in what are big and important companies in our country, but we're not going to be payroll leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e176	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e181	Yes, there is a difference between sitting down and communicating that it would be nice to have a string in, and making clear demands. There is a difference between changing the country’s policy on rents from saying that the country ‘should’ means that the country ‘should’, as the Labour Party suggests. Why does the government not want to make clear demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e186	The State imposes clear requirements. The state has clear expectations. We are talking here about big and small, but important businesses for our country. The directors must be responsible for setting wages and salaries, for they are responsible for the operation of the company. But the state that owns is both a clear and an active owner. That's exactly why we make an opinion in general meetings about the pay policy of the companies as well. That's exactly why we have protocol inputs when we think it's necessary. We've been doing that for years, even this year in two companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e191	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e197	It might have been tempting to ask the “time minister” follow-up questions about asking the clock this weekend, but we should stick to inequality and the finance minister. The representative Tajik started with numbers coming from the government, and so will I. First of all, a comment on the government's entrance and Sanner's answer here: The finance minister says we have to discuss how to bring down the differences. Good! But the government is systematically concerned about just looking at the poorest. Although the government’s own report on inequality shows that the main driver behind increased inequality in Norway is that it is the richest who draw most from people, international experience also shows that if one is to achieve a lasting reduction in, for example, poverty in society, or ensuring good social mobility, must reduce the level of inequality in society. So back to getting the differences down: will Sanner say that the differences increase or decrease when the government gives 8 billion. kr in tax cuts to the country’s 10 pst. richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e204	We've looked at what's called the Gini coefficient, which is an internationally recognised measurement system that looks at income inequality that goes on both employee income and capital income. There's a measurement statistic that SV has also put a lot of emphasis on before. Then we see that in our years there has been a marginal change in the inequality, just as it was under the red-green, when they crashed. So the answer is that we don't see that there's a huge inequality or that the inequality increases according to that statistics. That's why I'm saying we have to go behind the numbers. We have to look at people and see how we can lift up those who are going to be hanging after. How can we avoid creating more poor ones? We have to make sure that young people get a good education, that more people finish high school, that more people come to work. It's our answer to how we can create a society with opportunities for everyone, and how we can reduce the inequality in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e209	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e214	In reality, the government has chosen to ignore what is the government’s biggest message, which states that the main driver behind increased inequality in Norway is that they at the top subtract. As I was in my post, it's about bringing about a lasting reduction in poverty, reducing inequalities. It's absolutely central. It must also be a cross-section of thought for a government that, in its rhetoric, places the emphasis on the poor, that the number of young people growing up in poor families in Norway is also increasing dramatically. The Minister of Finance has presented new figures that will have us believe that through the budget now presented, differences in Norway will not increase, and the impact of that budget has been estimated. My question to Jan Tore Sanner is: what is the distribution effect of the total government budgets that have been, and the tax systems that have been presented by the government over the last few years, when one has chosen to prioritise big cuts in their wealth tax at the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e221	The representative says that the Minister of Finance will ‘have us to believe’. I'm not going to affect what the representative believes, but after the state budget was presented, a lot of claims have been made. The red-green lots have been fought to use the highest letters and to rule out as much as possible. It has been claimed that this budget, this tax regime, will increase income inequalities. Well, then I've gone and asked to get numbers that can show how this develops. Then it turns out that there is no particular impact on the income inequality of the next year. That's why I say we have to go behind the numbers and see how we can make sure that we reduce the inequalities in Norwegian society. And that's not my answer to the left-hand side, that we have to increase the tax on Norwegian ownership. I fundamentally disagree with that approach. I believe that we need to have more businesses in several industries across Norway, and then there will be no more private commercial activity by increasing the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e226	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e231	The question, and what's interesting, is whether the tax system is redistributive or not. And the question is whether the tax system over the last few years, since 2013, has become more redistributive or not. There have been large tax cuts under this government, and also the majority of people have received lower taxes, although much of it has been offset by increased taxes and, for example, increased taxes. increased parental benefit in kindergarten. But the question is who got the biggest tax cuts, and all of the government's figures show that they've been on top. So the question that Sanner has to answer is, is the tax system more or less redistributive with this government and more or less redistributive with the proposal that the Storing is dealing with now, when you keep cutting the taxes for them with the big wealth? That is what is relevant, unless the government has decided that it is not through the tax system to be redistributed in Norway. And that would be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e236	Let's look at the report that the SSB presented in 2019. At that time, the SSB presented a report on the issue of the tax system in 2019 that appeared less redistributive than the tax rules in 2013. The conclusion was that the tax system is a little less redistributive, and this is mainly due to a reduction in the tax on general income. And there has been a broad consensus on that. What they've pointed out has made the tax system a little bit less redistributive, is that we have reduced the corporate tax from 28 pst. until 22 pst. I don't remember as fast as SV was at it, but the other red-green parties were at it, because we were going to have a tax system that is more like what you see in other countries. We need to ensure that we have value creation in Norway, so that we can also create more jobs. So that's the answer in that SSB report, and then it'll be up to the representative whether you want to believe it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e241	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e246	I want to ask questions to the Minister of Industry. The Progress Party has always been concerned with the maritime industry and Norwegian seafarers. We have worked hard for, among other things, to obtain, maintain and strengthen the net pay scheme. Among other things, we have mourned: that we raised the roof of this scheme. It was simplified and expanded in 2016/2017, and we got it statutory in 2017. In the state budget now presented, there is a weakening of the scheme. We're terminating the arrangement that goes on NIS cargo ships, that is, the so-called deep sea segment. It was a scheme introduced in 2017. At the same time, there is a ceiling on the scheme of NOK 200000. So the entire net pay system is reduced by 270 million. kr. Maritime nutrition calls this a disappointment, and they're very disappointed that the government is adding to an enormous unforeseeable situation we're in now. So my question is quite brief: why is the government so concerned about raging the maritime industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e259	Firstly, I understand that the maritime industry would like the arrangements to be without thanks. This is, of course, an industry that has a system that is very special to this industry and that no other industry has. The reason is that we have a desire to keep Norwegian seafarers in that industry and in that sector. What the government is doing now, as the representative also says, is that we put a ceiling of NOK 200,000 on almost all the arrangements, and then we wind up the arrangement for NIS cargo ships on international voyages. The reason why we do that is precisely to create predictability, because now it's that without a roof we don't have control of costs either. When we thank you, we also have cost control of this scheme, which is a significant scheme. After the changes the government has now proposed and submitted to Stortinget, it is still about So, let's say $1.9 billion. kr. So we spend a significant amount into this industry to secure Norwegian seafarers. In the case of one scheme in particular, for NIS cargo ships engaged on international voyages, it has been modified because it has had a lower impact on employment than that on which it was based when it was established in 2017. Shipowners who have previously received support through the model grant for NIS cargo ships could continue to receive support, but through the general arrangement for NIS ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e269	I am recording that the Council of State believes that a deterioration of the system is predictable. It's kind of special. In the case of the net pay scheme and maritime industry support schemes, several countries do so and maritime industry competes to the degrees on the international market, in which case at least the maritime industry in Norway should not be subject to conditions worse than its competitors. Oslo Economics published a report a little ago, where they went through the net pay system, and it shows that this scheme has contributed to the fact that between 200 and 500 more ships are in Norwegian registers. At the same time, they say that a deterioration will help thousands of seafarers lose their jobs. This will again affect maritime nutrition through education, and we lose competence. Nevertheless, the Council of State believes that this is not a fury of the industry. How in all days does it work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e276	We can't call it a rage of a scheme of about 2 billion. NOK when the plan is still at SEK 1.9 billion. kr. We spend a significant amount on this so-called net pay scheme. Now, as the representative is also well known, we have put down a sample that looks at slightly different aspects of the net pay scheme, also related to the pay and employment conditions on the base and in Norwegian waters. That sample will deliver its report around the turn of the year, and it will generate a new debate on how we organise our schemes in relation to this sector. But to call it a rage when we still spend 1.9 billion. kr on a scheme that is very special for this sector, I think I'm taking a bit of a hard time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e283	Morten Ørsal Johansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e288	I have a follow-up question that I want to ask the Minister of Defence. As the Council of State is aware, the Defender is requesting a vehicle for the transport of both personnel and equipment. The Naval Defense also has this possibility to claim, and in the Marine Defense Emergency Plan there are ships inside that are to be involved and contribute to the transportation of both crew and material. So on Norwegian ships, there are several nationalities involved in these missions. Then is my question to the Minister of Defence: how convenient is the Minister of Defence that Norwegian ships in an exercise or in a sharp situation can have Eastern European and Russian crews to perform jobs for the Norwegian defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e297	Thank you for a good question. This is part of our mobilization regime, but also part of what we call strategic agreements with some private companies. The idea behind this is that in the day-to-day exercises, even if it really applies, we'll serve those who make an exercise common, which can be transportation or other in the daily, also are good at doing it if we have crisis and war. So a lot of international law questions are asked about this. We're going to include the strategic agreements, so we're absolutely sure that the law is there. It is also true that in what we deal with in the planned agreements, and in communication with the different companies, the issue is also how safe this is. Companies undertake to provide capacity which shall also be operational in crisis and war. That is a good question, but I think we cover it in the negotiations we do through the strategic framework agreements we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e306	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e311	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. It is quite incomprehensible that the government – at a time when employment is insecure, when ordinary people are insecure on both employment opportunities and income opportunities in the future – makes a proposal in the state budget where they directly weaken the ability to hire Norwegian seafarers or to have Norwegian seafarers on board their boats. It is quite incomprehensible that it actually happens in this state budget, also in the light of the fact that Stortinget has just discussed the relationship with Norwegian wage and working conditions on board Norwegian boats in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian seas. It's completely incomprehensible. After all, the party should be clearer in its orders below. In all analyses and in the industry itself, it is feared that this will mean that several thousand seafarers will be put ashore. What estimates does the Minister of Industry have that this does not happen? And does the Minister of Industry have any indications that this will not affect employment on board Norwegian boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e320	It may not be incomprehensible that a government introduces a ceiling to control the increase in costs in a very large and comprehensive scheme, amounting to around 2 billion. kr of our state budget. That's what we're doing. In the schemes that previously had no roof, we set a ceiling of NOK 200000. It still means that seafarers are covered by the scheme, and that means that shipping companies are still supported to hire Norwegian seafarers. But it's a thank you, for controlling the costs of a very cost-intensive system. But it will affect the shipping companies, and it will include some seafarers, and we can give a very concrete estimate of how many it will be. But that's setting a roof. There is only one scheme of several being terminated, and that is because it has not had the effect that was expected when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e325	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e330	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister of Industry – and the Minister of Time, whom we have been given. I believe on behalf of the seafarers and the maritime industry that if one can help to get the diving choice to come something faster, it will be taken well. For the government and the supporting party the Progress Party wings when it comes to seafarers and maritime nutrition. We heard here earlier in an answer that one was busy with the state's misgivings, that it was the government's woe and well that had to be assured of the carelessness of this. I think it reminds us of piracy, in the situation that the industry is now, to bring about a weakening of the system and make it more expensive to add Norwegian seafarers. I want to make the question very simple: what is the reason why the government now wants to make the use of Norwegian seafarers more expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e337	The representative began by commenting on this with time. That's how I've done mine, then, so that the government would sit at least one hour longer in 2020, now that we're going to keep it quiet on Sunday. The justification is the same as I have given on the other questions that are related to this net pay scheme, or the subsidy scheme for seafarers. It's because we have a large and comprehensive system today that doesn't have a roof, and we don't have control of the costs of this system either. That is why we are now proposing a roof over most of the schemes, and we are proposing to take one out. It was introduced in 2017 and has not acted upon the intentions at the time of its introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e345	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e350	The tourism industry is an important industry in rural and urban areas, and I have a question for the Minister of Industry about that, because it is an industry that is very hard to deal with. About 170,000 people work in the tourism industry before Korona – jobs throughout the country. The center party is concerned that most of these are supposed to keep their jobs, that most of the healthy businesses in our country are going to survive the coronary crisis. It is important for each individual working in the industry, and it is important for their families and for their communities. Travel life is a future industry. Helping the tourism industry is not giving alms; it is an investment in value creation and jobs throughout the country. The industry is experiencing a government with a passive approach and a lack of understanding of the situation in the industry. While the government is trying to create an impression of action, frustration in the industry is increasing. One presents measures, but these are short-term and not accurate. It seems that government is more busy holding frequent press conferences than securing long-term conditions for travel. The government seems to have an commitment to the travel industry that goes out on New Year's Eve. There are measures that are being cut, and there is no emphasis on the crisis that one is in the midst of. And in this situation, the government, among other things. to enter for travel life charges to be doubled from 1 January 2021, from 6 pst. to 12 pst. My question to the Minister for Enterprise — and the Minister for Travel Life — is about the situation of travel life. What is the Minister for Travel's view of the situation in travel life that makes it appear, in the present situation, as a good idea to cut schemes and double the rate of travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e363	The infection we now have in the world, and the measures taken by different countries, make the situation very special and very unpredictable. I think we're all hoping and longing to get a vaccine, so that everyday life can come back to normal again. The tourism industry experienced an early onset of infection and infectious diseases and is among the industries that still notice the effect well and that are going to notice the effect for a while to come. They're themselves very conscious of that, because they see for themselves that this is not something that necessarily ends the day the vaccine comes. This can affect people's travel patterns in the world in the longer term. Only take the airlines, which provide estimates of when they are back at the 2019 level, which is well ahead of time. It means that we have a travel industry that, in the frustration they are in, however, folds up the sleeves and thinks that now we have to change, now we have to find new markets, and now we have to do things differently from what we've done before. It is the government's responsibility, and it is the government's responsibility. But we have now, since 12 March, had some general arrangements that have applied to the whole of business, broad arrangements, and it has been both on the charging side and on the compensation side. Now we're in a new phase. Now we have to make arrangements that are more eaten and aimed at the industries that are still in an uncertain situation, and the tourism industry is among them. That is why we have now put in place two new arrangements, yesterday. We have worked well, I would say, with the social partners to find a new scheme based on the old compensation scheme. But there is a whole new system that now applies and is confined to travel life, which also means that the government – if we see that the situation continues in 2021 – has an opportunity to support travel life at that time. But then we get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e372	This is where we are at the heart of the problem, that travel life does not know what is going on from 1 January 2021. The Minister of Economic Affairs said to the NRK in August, during a visit to Bergen, that travel life had to stop talking about a crisis. But where the Minister of Industry is wrong, because speech is clear: there is a crisis in the tourism industry. Then it doesn't use words to take this away. When the government does not recognise the crisis, the government is also unable to resolve the crisis. It is not useful to configure with this type of Torgall statement. One has to settle with long-termity and concrete policy measures. My question is this: Is there this missing sense of reality that makes the Minister of Economic Affairs think that the tourism industry should be able to tolerate not knowing what framework conditions will apply after 1 January 2021, and among other things. also a doubling of the travel income from that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e379	1.4 B.C.E. kr – it won't be more concrete than that, will it? Yesterday, we put forward a new compensation scheme for travel businesses, which is estimated at a cost of 1.3 billion. until Christmas. In addition, we have created a system that, in the absence of a better word, we call the valve system, in order to capture just the companies that are strongly linked to travel life, without being travel businesses, 100 million. kr. So this is a government that shows that we want to help and support travel through a very special and difficult time for that industry. At the same time, we've also put 250 million on the table. kr for conversion. We saw a great interest in it and then put a further 250 million on the table. kr for conversion. There is a great need, and the travel industry itself is eager to take the necessary steps. Then the government will also come back, if there is a need for more help and support, in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e390	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e395	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance. In the context of the crisis package, which was dealt with almost two weeks ago, the majority stated that tourism tax affects industries that are particularly hit by the crisis, and that one concluded that from 1 January it will return to the so-called normal level – that is, it is twice as high as today’s level. It is well possible that the Progress Party has achieved a return to the record high level that one had when they had the Finance Minister themselves, and that the Left has been given the advantage that this should be the new norm for travel life, but why does the Minister of Finance and the Right think that it makes sense to double the levy for an industry that is particularly hard hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e402	What the representative calls tourism VAT is a low rate of VAT that concerns a large number of sectors and different industries. It is not the case that this is a VAT that is tailor-made for travel; it also applies to other sectors. That is why it was a broad majority on the Stortinget that lowered it as a crisis response. But the difference is that while the majority in this Chamber have thought that it is a crisis response for a period of time, the Central Party believes that the low rate of VAT should be even lower than a permanent scheme. We think it's right to take it back to the normal level from New Year's, while putting in powerful packages aimed at the industries that are struggling the most, and travel lives are mostly among them, it's an industry that is struggling because people travel less. There will be few in Norway — if any. That is why we are putting in place a targeted, powerful action. We think that will work, and that will secure the jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e407	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e412	It is quite right that the low rate of VAT applies more than to travel; it concerns transport and it concerns culture, which is also particularly hard hit by the crisis. It is true that the Senterpartie over time has worked so that the VAT rate should be lower than today. Then travel life would also be better rusted at the entrance to the crisis. But here is a businessman who is still in a very difficult situation. In my own neighbouring municipality, Ullensaker, unemployment is still 14 p.m. In Trysil and Hemsedal, it's 10 and 12 pst. There is still a serious crisis in travel. In combination with charging there, the government also proposes to reintroduce the airline passenger charge, which will create additional challenges for travel life, but also for transport in our long-term country. Why does the government think it makes sense to increase the fees by an estimated 3 billion. When one is still in such a serious crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e421	When you deal with a crisis, it's about dealing with it in different phases. In the first phase, we put in place strong measures to improve the liquidity of companies. In the next phase we contributed with broad compensation schemes, we lowered the employer’s fee for a period of time, and we agreed with Stortinget that we should also lower other taxes and taxes for a period of time. In the current phase, we have taken action both to strengthen Norway’s exit from the crisis and to ensure that more people return to work, including those in prison. with a pay-aid scheme for the return of the persons on leave to work. Then we will complement it with targeted measures against those industries that have challenges: on culture, combining a compensation scheme with support for activity, and on travel life, which went into place, because it is an industry that is struggling. We have said that we should stand up to them and make sure that we can contribute to the success of viable businesses through this crisis. But the general policy of the Central Party cannot be a crisis policy and something that will last forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e431	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e436	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. That's the travel life it's about. Yesterday, there was a package. Right now, we're going into the dark days of North Norway, and it's not like there's going to be a season, we're in the winter season. There is no solution for 2021 on the table. It's going to be bone tough, the year that's coming, and it's already been. From this government it has come too little, too late – all the time. You've been in the back, and you've never been able to create the predictability that tourism needs. So my question is, the Minister of Industry says that you have the opportunity to expand to 2021. What does the Minister of Industry know about January, about April? Does the Minister think that tourists, for example, will be able to do so? Troms, since you can't tell the industry that you have a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e450	When we ended the general compensation scheme that applied to the whole of business, we had to sit down and create a whole new system aimed at that part of the business that was hardest hit by the pandemic and the anti-infection measures, i.e. travel life. Creating a whole new system, as we have done now, is quite demanding, and I am glad that the Brønn Island Health Registers have pushed around and said yes to managing that system. Now we have an arrangement in place, now we have agreed with the parties on how to set it up, and then the government has to come back to the Storting with any needs that are in 2021. But now we have that travel life scheme in place, which we've spent a lot of time on. I also want to add that it is right that the representative says that the season is already running. It's important that we Nordics still use our own country, not just that we did it this summer. There are good opportunities both to go to the restaurant and to use hotels throughout our country also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e459	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e464	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. He has been shopping abroad, drawing the credit card in local currency. It could be risky, as we know. It appears in the budget that the total cost of the F-35 fighter aircraft is now expected to be 98.8 billion. kr. That's 20 billion. kr more than the governance framework laid down by Stortinget, and 10 billion. kr more than the cost framework with which the government has been prepared not to break. So we have a huge cost gap going on, if those calculations are now used by the government for the development of the dollar rate, they're right. There is a bill that the government has previously foreseen to be included in the defence budget, thus putting the whole discussion of the long-term defence plan in a completely different light, and which makes it possible to deal with the question of how to deal with these costs, where to cut them to cover this gigantic cost, and the wisdom that the bulk of the population – despite repeated warnings that this could happen – as late as last autumn bought six new aircraft – must be on the agenda. In a letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee dated 17 June 2019, the Minister of Defence rejected the fact that there was a cost margin for F-35. There he could tell us: ‘It is only when a project has an exceedance beyond the agreed cost framework of the Storting that it could be referred to as a cost cap.’ Now he himself has presented a budget where the calculations indicate that we can get an exceedance beyond the agreed cost framework of the Storting, and then the question of the Minister of Defence will now be referred to as a cost penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e479	First I have to be allowed to say that it was the red-green ones, with the Light Hill in government, who traveled abroad and left the credit card there. The battle lyan acquisition was adopted in 2012. Then I must be allowed to say that the purchase of combat aircraft as such has no cost. In fact, compared to the forecasts that had been made, the plans that had been made are 7-8 billion. kr cheaper. But the representative Lightbakken is quite right that currency, with a weak crown over a long period of time, gives us a challenge. The cost estimate described in the budget is caused by a strongly weakened krona compared to the exchange rate underlying the 2012 cost framework. Since 2015, we have seen a krone that has been significantly weakened compared to the US dollar, and we reported it for the first time in the 2016 budget. In order to see an objective picture of developments, we have used the same methodology all along, the one adopted in 2012, to focus on the exchange rate. And when the cost calculation for the 2021 budget was picked up in March 2020, the currency market was strongly influenced by the corona epidemic. We have variations of plus/minus 1.5 billion. NOK – then a deficit of 1.5 billion. kr – and we have gone to zero in months after April when we have set up costs against the currency. We have said that we constantly focus on this, and we communicate it and also present it to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget should also be aware of it. We've also said that in terms of that currency part, we have a dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, and we're going to come back with a solution to these problems. But the important thing here is that this isn't something that's come up quickly. This is a methodology that has been universally agreed since 2012, and we have been reporting on this continuously since we came into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e492	First of all, let me say that what the red-green government did was very wise, because that government put up until then, was that the fighter aircraft acquisition was to be done piece by piece, so that the Storting bought the planes individually, so that there was just room to take into account the evolution of the cost picture. I am well aware of the Minister of Defence's starting point for calculating currency fluctuations, because that was precisely the starting point for the dialogue between the Committee of Control and the Minister of Defence in the summer of 2019, after a number of revelations about this in the Official Journal of Bergen. Then the Council of State announced that it was acceptable for him to continue the current method of admissibility of the currency. This has been done, and that was the basis for the Stortinget to order six new aircraft last autumn, which – with the figures we now have on the table – must be seen as a special unwise decision. Does the Council of State think that he provided the Stortinget with a good enough basis for decision, and when did he himself become aware of the cost gap that he has now communicated that there is a possibility in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e501	Now there are considerable exceedances of the speaking time in the Question Time, so the President reminds us that speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e506	We have reported on the development of the weak dollar rate. We replied to the Control and Constitutional Committee with what we then knew, with the predictions that were then. We have a report in the budget for 2021, with what we knew in March, and what we know now. The decision to order the last six fighter aircraft was not made primarily because of the exchange rate. It was made because the safety challenges are different, and the assessments that have been made to build a defense that gives us the security we need in a difficult time indicate that we are dependent on the last six planes as well. We have said that we should do the priorities that are needed, but it should not be unknown to the representative Lysbaken that when a decision is taken in 2012, both the security situation, the security environment, the exchange rate and other defence priorities can make it necessary to adjust things. We have said that we must come up with a system that takes care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e513	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e518	I'm sorry I moved outside the management framework for speaking time. It's not going to repeat itself. What has been the premise for now – and I would like the Minister of Defense to confirm or cancel – is that there will be exceedances on the fighter aircraft purchase, it must be covered within the Defence budget. So now we can talk about not just exceedances, but potentially huge exceedances in the years to come. The long-term plan reads as follows: ‘A weakened Norwegian krone may result in projects becoming more expensive than planned. The consequences of this may be delays in the implementation and/or changes in the scope/ambitence of the project.» But otherwise, the government has not given any kind of leadership in the long-term plan for which of these investments the government sees need to be cut or not implemented. The fear in the Defense and my fear is that the Army and the Maritime Defense will be left with the bill for the fighter aircraft, and then the security policy accounts are poor, because it would be wiser to have fewer aircraft and to be able to invest more in army and maritime defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e531	The forecasts of the posts that the representative Lighthouse has held here indicate that he will quickly exceed the speaking time. Forecasts are forecasts. The defense trades a lot in foreign currency. The light box says this will go out on the Army. No, if we see the Army on its own, it's also a challenge with a weak crown in relation to the South Korean currency, in which we might be buying tanks. It suggests that it gets more expensive than we initially had a prognosis of two, three or four years ago. The defense has always had to take account of currency fluctuations, and then we've said that now, with a weak dollar rate over this long period, this is a bigger challenge. We've been reporting that all along, and we've said that we're in dialogue with finance for some sort of solution. But currency fluctuations – euro, US dollars, Swedish dollars – are not unknown to the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e538	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e543	But this extra big currency challenge has led the defence minister to Norway with open eyes, instead of postponing the purchase of the last six planes last fall. Then the Minister of Defence must answer the following questions: Are these exceedances to be covered within the Defence Budget, with the consequences it will have for the Army and the Maritime Defense, or is the government going to send the bill elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e548	As the representative Lysbakken is well known, the defence budget is part of the state budget, so the answer is that it must be covered by the state budget. Then we negotiate and present a government budget every year where we also take these things into account. It has been reported in every state budget, it has been reported on the defence budget every year how the state is. This is nothing new. We agree that a weak crown gives us challenges when we're dealing with expensive materials abroad, no matter what kind of currency it's about, and then we've said that we've reported on it, we've made the challenges visible, and we're going to adjust for it. It's to be taken within the state budget, and then there's negotiations on every budget that tells us what we can do. So far, we have delivered everything we have promised in terms of the defence budget, since we became a government in 2013. Every penny we promised we would use, we have delivered in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e555	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e560	The estimated lifetime costs for aeroplanes are now in record heights of 353 billion. kr, almost six times the entire current defence budget. In the budget proposal, the government says that this cost bomb is due to an increase in the dollar rate, but both the U.S. and Norway’s national audit have recently revealed a number of potentially very costly errors and deficiencies in the F-35. Which are missing, we know, among other things. from the US National Audit Office, which has been open about some errors in the aircraft that will result in their being used less, and that can also make the entire operation far more expensive than previously assumed. The question is: how does the most recent lifetime cost calculation take into account the cost-effective errors and shortcomings identified by the national audits both in Norway and the United States, and as the Stortinge to date dealt with earlier this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e567	It's a very good question, which I'm very happy to be allowed to answer, and it can be answered quite simply. When we do that type of computation, when we make that kind of prognosis and present numbers that are going to say something about the future, we do it with everything we know now. A lot of the things that are mentioned in the US National Audit Report are things that when it comes to us, where we're in the fighter aircraft program, are already fixed in. So many of the costs that have been made visible by the U.S. National Audit Office, we have passed through our part of the program. It's fixed up before we get this far with our planes. When we present a prognosis or a number, we do it with what we know now. It's a very straightforward delivery gel, and it also makes it easier for the opposition to know where we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e574	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e579	If the world were that simple, it would be an even finer place, but we know from the U.S. National Audit that some of the findings are that the planes lack spare parts, and that the logistics systems and the workshop capacity are not good enough. There is nothing that Norway can fix, this is a mistake that lies with Lockheed Martin in the United States. So even though the government might wish the problems weren't as big as what was revealed by the U.S. National Audit, it's a fact that it's hard for Frank Bakke-Jensen to fix, unless he knows more about the planes than Lockheed Martin does himself. In sum, these errors will result in aeroplanes remaining on the ground about 30 pst. more of the time than you might have thought, and it would of course be demeaning that you can't use them as much as you should. I might just ask the Council of States to go for a little bit more to answer if it's taken into account the lavish effect these findings of the Americans will have on the Norwegian planes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e586	The answer is the same. When we deliver forecasts and numbers, we do it with what we know now. We're working closely on the fighter aircraft program. Nor is it right that the representative says that all of this is with Lockheed Martin. Spare parts are produced by quite a number. The logistics system has also been open to us that there have been challenges. Adjustments have been made to that part. This is a big project, a big program, and if we ignore the currency, and just look at the fighter aircraft program, we have savings of between 7 billion today. and 8 billion. simply because spare parts have been better supplied. You fly more in a simulator and less in a plane. This is a technology development project that takes us seven miles further, and that in many ways tells us every day how technology challenges us and gives us opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e591	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e597	Norway is at the bottom of OECD countries in terms of export promotion. We lose market shares every day, it does little to promote the export opportunities of businesses, we lose in competition with our neighbouring countries, and we do not win new shares in emerging economies like in Asia and Africa. These are lost options. The question goes to the Minister of Industry. The challenge, of course, is economic sustainability and safe, forward-looking jobs. In the light of the lack of commitment to export promotion, there is a lack of action for key future industries at home. A good example is the government's lack of effort towards the maritime cluster, a cluster that will be an important foundation for our future in terms of jobs, value creation and, above all, future export revenues. Menon's forecasts for the August 2020 maritime industry are frightening reading. The main scenario is the loss of 100 billion. SEK on the market during 2022, 15000 annual works may be lost. If we get a new wave of infection, the turnover could be 130 billion. NOK, 20,000 annual works may be lost. That people along the coast are now afraid of their jobs, I have a lot of understanding. 60 pst. the workplaces of supervisors may be lost. It's pretty dramatic. The oil package and the State budget do not build new opportunities that directly affect the maritime cluster and that can secure jobs. The maritime cluster is our entrance to the future in many ways. It's crucial if we're to succeed in sea wind, carbon capture and storage, blue hydrogen, marine minerals, and if we're still to be able to lead within seafood. And not least, maritime competence is also the solution to zero emissions for shipping. We believe it is totally unacceptable to sit passive and look at what is happening within the maritime cluster. Workplaces are important and maritime competence is an important contribution to future solutions. The question to the Council of State is therefore: is it acceptable to sit quietly in the boat as a passive spectator and watch the coast, the yards and the maritime industry for perhaps 20,000 jobs already in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e610	It is a big question that the representative asks, but I do not fully agree with the premises that lie there. The representative begins with exports and the challenges we face with exports. I agree that although we in Norway are fortunate and have important raw materials such as oil, gas and fish, we still have a great potential for exports linked to other areas in which we need to improve. What distinguishes the government from the Workers' Party in terms of what we're going to bet on is that the Workers' Party wants to pick winners politically, while the government is committed to bringing business with it, because it is the industry that is going to deliver the products and services to be exported in the future. And the maritime sector is one of the sectors in which we are world leaders in some areas, especially related to technology, climate-friendly technology. That's why we're not just passive about the maritime sector. We have e.g. a hydrogen bet. We have a green platform, which we have now presented, in 1 billion. kr. We've put forward a 75-million air conditioning system. kr. We have a $600 million loan arrangement. kr. So there are several packages related to the crisis we've been facing and still standing in. At the same time, there are also some challenges in the maritime sector that the maritime sector itself is the only ones that can solve. For example, we probably have too much capacity on the fleet in the oil and gas sector, because we had an oil dip. After the oil spill, there are still ships that have not come into operation, and it does not seem that they come to the old heights that they once were at. So there's also a need in the industry to do something. But that this is a forward-looking and important industry for Norway is not the government or anyone else in doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e619	It may be possible to pick – what to say – winners in Norwegian business. However, whether you choose to pick winners or not, there is no doubt that maritime nutrition is an important industry for Norway as a whole. Much competence lies there, a lot of technology lies there. And that's one of the industries that is significantly export oriented, which is a significant factor in terms of our export income, even in the future, because it can also contain new industries. But what we see from the numbers is that the measures taken are not working – they do not work in 2021 or 2022. That means that if nothing happens now, the most likely scenario of Menon for the maritime cluster is actually going to hit. That means that one could end up with 130 billion. kr in market failures. It could end with a loss of 20,000 jobs. Therefore, my question is: what further measures does the Minister of Industry have on his block to assist an industry that is particularly important for Future Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e626	We also need to give some of these measures time to work, because there are major decisions to be made, for example. in a shipping company if they are to challenge a ship, purchase a new ship or build one of its own. These are arrangements that we have opened up for the possibility of applying for the harvest, so we also have to allow the shipping companies to spend the time they need to make use of the arrangements. I believe it is too early now to say that the conditioning system and the loan scheme either did not work or were not large enough. It is necessary to have time to make decisions and use the arrangements before we assess whether there is a need for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e631	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e636	Christmas and celebrations are approaching with storm chalk, and a sure holiday sign in Trøndelag is at least that the line of E14 between Stjørdal and Storlien closes. This year that queue will be considerably shorter. Of course, the back carpet is not positive, but on the positive side it means that the crowds and the rest of the population along or near the Swedish border this year are going to spend more money in Norwegian stores. Of course, that's good for these stores. They increase their turnover and their margins, and they get the opportunity to hire more people. That's good for all of us. But it is also good for those who produce the goods. When Oskar Sylte sells more noise at the expense of Swedish brewers, or when Aass sells more beer instead of Swedish breweries, or when Nidar sells more chocolate than before, it's not good for Molde, Drammen and Trondheim – it's good for all of Norway. Nothing indicates that we consumers eat or drink more of these goods, we trade them in Norway instead of abroad. It is also good for us consumers. It's not like I or anyone I know prefer to go to Sweden instead of to Rema on the corner. It is also good for the climate if we stay at home. But it's not given that this is going to continue in the future. Hopefully, we can re-open the borders, and then everything will mean that the Nordics will again go to Sweden to trade cheaper goods, especially with the submitted state budget. We could, as Denmark has done, try to solve this permanently by reducing the fees on typical goods that we trade abroad. It would have strengthened Norwegian businesses, secured jobs here at home and made everyday life a little easier for us all. My question to the Minister of Finance is therefore: When we now see all the positive effects this contributes to, why didn't he seize that chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e645	It's good that something is coming out of the crisis we're in, because most of all it's a very serious health crisis, which has also become an economic crisis and is breaking into businesses. It is true that a consequence of the closure of the border is that people act less in Sweden. But I think we have to be so honest that we also see that there are different reasons why people act in Sweden. It is not only due to lower charges on any goods placed on the market. An important reason why it is more expensive in Norway is also Norwegian customs protection. This is an important explanation that some agricultural products are more expensive in Norway than in our neighbouring country. We have higher wages and a higher cost level. This also means that there are cost differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries. But then it's absolutely right that the fees also play a role. There is also a balance between the level of fees and health effects. It is clear that high tobacco taxes and high alcohol taxes also contribute to lower consumption. We have to be so honest, too. The government parties and the Progress Party have previously been able to agree on reductions in taxes on goods subject to border trade, and if I am not completely wrong, this will also be a discussion theme between today's government parties and the Progress Party for the weeks ahead towards Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e656	There are low odds on the ‘betting market’ of that claim from Sanner, but what the Council of State is completely jumping over is that we are now in a completely different situation, an extraordinary situation that is completely different from just a year ago. Unemployment is significantly higher than a year ago, and there is a loud call for help from the State to help create and secure jobs. One of the easiest things we can do is put down the kind of taxes that we know are baits for people who go to Sweden and other countries. This is not just the Advance Party's opinion. Recently, the chairman of the Programme Committee in the Sanners Party presented the first draft of a new party programme. Then Linda Hofstad Helleland said to NTB that the Right has been very restrictive on this earlier, but that she now thought the situation is so different – and that if you work against other questions, then weights are the most weighty. Does Sanner disagree that work weighs more?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e663	Jobs weigh heavily, but when we are going to set the level of fees, there are also other considerations that matter. I have some experience discussing these questions with the Progress Party, I negotiated, among other things. a State budget with Siv Jensen in 2003, and this was also a theme. At that time, we were able to agree on reductions in charges for goods placed on the market. This is a theme I am absolutely sure that the government parties and the Advance Party in Stortinget get good discussions around. So it's a question of how high these charges should be, but we can't ignore that there are other conditions that play in. I was at the customs and cost level: we should not believe that just reducing taxes on alcohol and tobacco is no longer a challenge for the border trade. It's going to be there also because of other political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e670	There will be follow-up questions – Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e675	The Minister of Finance wrote on Facebook just hours ago that he was ‘anxious for unemployment, for young people on the way out to work and for others with little experience of work from before’. I share that concern. We have a lot of skilled employees in shops in this country, and there's something this industry is very good at, is giving school-ridden young people or adults with low or no education an opportunity to get a foot within the labour market and a career in the large daily food industry. They get an income, get to try a profession, and if they thrive, the finance minister and I, while he was a minister of knowledge, have arranged to make it even easier to get a job letter for these groups. After the border with Sweden was closed, many more employees are reported in shops along the border. A lasting reduction in fees can ensure that these and many more keep their jobs. Isn't it better that the jobs of school-tired young people can be kept on this side of the border than they move to Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e683	We clearly share much of the description of reality, there is no doubt that trade in goods plays an unusually large and important role in recruiting young people, people with migrant backgrounds and other vulnerable groups, that there is a way into working life. The same applies to hotels and services. One of my concerns in this crisis is just that there will be fewer of these jobs, I agree with that description. Then we'll have discussions in the future about how high or how low these charges should be. We have managed to agree on this before, I hope that we will be able to agree on it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e688	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e693	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. NATO has invested large funds in the airbase on Andy Island. The NATO inspection team, which was recently on Andøya, was following sources listed above today. It has been said by the Prime Minister that Andøya will also have military activity on the air base in the future. The municipality has got maps from the head of defence where one has held that area to be used for military purposes. However, in a recent answer to questions from the Central Party, the Council of State replied that for Andøyas part, this means that the function as an alternate landing site ends after the aircraft base is phased out for military use, and that the function may be transferred to Evenes when the required reception capacity is in place. Although this was the answer to a question about the reception of Nordic military aircraft, the answer is clear: All military activity on Andeya should stop. This must also apply to NATO allies. Now the government can actually mean what he wants, but NATO probably also has its own view of this, and they have put down large funds in investments in the air base on Andeya. Can the Council of State confirm that NATO has accepted the total closure of the Andeya aerodrome, that it should not be used after 2025, which is the time when it will be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e704	The installations and infrastructure to be used by NATO in Norway are determined by the Norwegian authorities. As far as Andøya is concerned, we have said that in crisis and war, it too, like all other airports in Norway, can get an emergency mission. The decision that the air station on Andøya should be shut down and that the activity should be moved to Evenes has been made in Stortinget, and it stands by layers. When the representative refers to Andøya as an alternative, it is a plan for Nordic practice. Andy Island, as an alternative to the Andy Island airfield, is being shut down, and then evens is taking over that function. The reason is that we depend on having the right competence and personnel at the airport to be an alternative for Finnish or Swedish aircraft. We've got that on Evenes. I am not so familiar with the fact that the US authorities or NATO authorities are neither dissatisfied nor have expressed other sentiments when they have been around. We have worked closely against both NATO and other allies with our long-term plan. We feel that they are very satisfied with the effort we have. We build defense and structure, even northwards, which is very good. So I can't quite recognize myself in those descriptions. As regards the civil use of Andøya, I have just had a meeting with the Andøya Municipality and the Migration Board there. They're very pleased with the sketch they got from the defense chief. We're handling it in the department now. We do so in close cooperation with the Migration Board and the Andøya Municipality – simply because if there is a need to do things together that strengthen the transition, that is, something we have decided and made clear that we should give priority to, infrastructure in Andøya should also be able to help with that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e717	I thank you for your answer. What was sketched when it concerns the Andeya municipality is at least a few other signals than those I got in a telephone conversation with the spokesperson two days ago. But leave it alone today. An ammunition selection has submitted a report on the storage, assembly and transport of explosive P-8 aeroplanes on Evenes. Due to re-use requirements and low area requirements, which provide minimum safety distances, the plans do not go beyond what is necessary for Norwegian needs without significant investments. Allied needs are also not covered by hangar construction today, de-icing the runway is still an unresolved problem, just to mention something – I could also mention fuel storage etc. The Minister of Defence himself has been in close contact with NATO and has confirmed that they want to move all activity from Andy Island to Evenes. So a very simple question: will allies operate from Evenes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e724	First of all, the initial comments. If the rapporteur on Andøya, who is a party trap of Liv Signe Navarsete, does not feel that he has managed to communicate with me the needs of the conversion process on Andøya, and if it is the representative of Navarsete's impression that what he has communicated in what I have now referred to does not lead to correctness, or that cannot be what you have thought, I think we must be so helpful to the conversion process on Andøya that we both contact the rapporteur and ask about the meeting I had with the Migration Board and the rapporteur, and whether we have failed so badly. It is my definite impression that they were satisfied. I'm taking this very seriously. When it comes to the Allied presence on Evens, it's like whatever kind of activity it should be, we expect allies to be involved in building. There's room for allied activity there and allied infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e731	It opens for follow-up questions – first Liv Signe Navarsette.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e736	Governments have submitted a long-term defence plan, version 2.0. He boasts of the bet, of course, but the bets are uncertain, and the growth in the economy can be more than spent on cost growth, for example. currency fluctuations - this is the text of the message itself. The army has only received 50 pst in the last period. of the planned investment funds that they should have, even if the government announced an increase in investment, dedicated helicopter support, which is in the blue, tanks first in the next period, a crew increase so weak that one will not have four battalions up and go to Brigade North before about 2030, and HV lacks several thousand personnel to meet the structure of the Storting. Why does the Council of State promote the depriority of rural power and push the necessary investment and manpower growth to the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e743	I must almost ask the representative to tell me what kind of reference she is using when she says that the army has only received 50 pst. of the investment funds which they should have held...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e748	Follow the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e753	...because we've followed up the things we've said we're going to do in the long-term plan, so it's going to be a strange number for me. Then we also have a significant investment in the long-term plan we have now presented, both the first one, 1.0, and 2.0. It takes time to build capacities, it takes time to reverse a defense from being in a degradation process to being in a build-up process. It's about building skills, it's about building up spare parts bearings, preparedness bearings, ammunition, and it's about getting the camps going. We've done a lot, and the Army has also been given a considerable boost in this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e759	Morten Wold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e764	It has already been referred to the recently adjusted long-term plan that has been put forward, and we look forward, of course, to the negotiations we are going to have there. The question of Andøya and Evenes, which was originally raised, is also important to many in this respect. The LTP points to the Terningmoen as a continuing location for recruiting schools. Many say that Drevjamoen in Wefsn should also be investigated in the name of justice in view of the future training of new soldiers in North Norway. Is such an investigation around Drevjamoen completely out of date, or is there any government council that will ensure that it is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e771	That's a good and loving question. In the work on the long-term plan there have been many -moen: Haslemoen, Evjemoen, Drevjamoen. Anyone who has a military camp or a military camp that does a little bit, close by, thinks that the next recruiting school should be there. The reason why the dicemo is chosen for the recruiting school is because we're moving the recruits out of our battalions, our brigade, the army, and then we have a dedicated recruiting school on the dicemo. It's rational to do it that way. Then we've seen the example that the defense established recruiting school at the garrison in Porsangs, just to be able to fill up the home-protection areas that hadn't been filled up for years, to have Finnmarks enough to fill up the home-protection areas. The Defence Manager is free to promote that type of proposal if he believes it may be so. Those who think it's just using a military camp today must also be aware that we have good numbers that it can be quite expensive to use an old camp for modern operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e776	Morten Wold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e781	I am aware, of course, that it will represent cost challenges, but then I interpret the Council of State so that if there is no initiative from the Chief of Defense, the Council of State does not want to raise the issue around Drevjamoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e786	No, we've put forward a long-term plan where we say that the Terningmo is where we want the recruiting school for the Army. It's rational to do it like that. We have the competence, we have all those things. It's not like we don't have investigations. We have good ratios of what it will cost to use other camps, so we know about the costs of it, we know about the rational. But as I say, the head of defense has great freedom, and if you're going to have a recruiting school for home security areas, which has proved successful in Finnmark, there may be something that does other places as well. We need to recruit for Homeland after one has not taken people from different places in the country for many, many years. I don't oppose those things. We have good numbers on what it will cost to use another camp, and we think we have landed on the best solution, but as said, we are going to negotiate in the Stortinget. I'm really looking forward to that, and I'm looking forward to getting the numbers we have in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e791	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e805	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Mr Kjerkol to the Minister for Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Security, who is directly responsible. Question 5, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e819	‘The health authorities of the Member States have come with extensive criticism of the rental in the Helgeland Hospital. The sudden closure of cancer surgery has damaged HMS for employees and leaders, has damaged the company's reputation and has led to an increase in the risk of injury and death in patients. At the same time, the health service provider has been criticised for the purchase of services from an external PR agency, which had also been sent three classified cancer reports with sensitive and sensitive information. What do the State Councils do to ensure quality, tranquility and trust in the Helgeland Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e832	For a long time, there has been considerable concern about intestinal cancer surgery at the Helgelands hospital. There has been and is a discussion about both quality, patient safety, working environment, cooperation and organisation. The hospital recently decided to temporarily gather all scheduled intestinal cancer surgery in Mo in Rana. The decision put management's goal of having joint management and two-location operations under further pressure. This decision was probably received a little differently, and there was a disagreement as to whether this was a proper measure. The Managing Director of the Helgelandssykehuset briefed on the decision at an extraordinary board meeting on 12 October and at the same time explained the quality work at the hospital. This work has taken time and, unfortunately, has not progressed, but will continue independently of the provisional decision. The situation around intestinal cancer surgery has been demanding and is suitable to damage the confidence of the Helgelands Hospital and Health Nord. A high level of media awareness will also help create uncertainty and uncertainty in the population. On the basis of an overall assessment, the Board of Health Nord adopted on 15 October a second interim solution for intestinal cancer surgery. The Management Board decided that all planned intestinal cancer surgery will be performed at the Nordlands Hospital with effect from 19 October 2020. All immediate assistance related to suspicion of intestinal cancer that must be operated in the Helgelands Hospital shall be provided after prior consultation with the Nordlands Hospital and/or the University Hospital in North Norway. The decision shall ensure predictability for patients and their relatives while the hospital is working to further develop patient safety and the work environment in the field of intestinal cancer surgery. The University Hospital in North Norway has been commissioned to help with interdisciplinary teams to contribute to this quality work. The time released when operations are temporarily moved to the Nordlandssykehuset can be used for accommodation for the professional environment at both the University Hospital in North Norway and the Nordlandssykehuset. Both hospitals have received a separate order to do this. The Helgelands Hospital has already started the necessary processes to ensure management and good cooperation between the professional communities in Mo in Rana and in Lake Sandness. In parallel with the completion of the supervision of intestinal cancer surgery in Helgeland, the hospital carries out quality work and takes action to improve the working environment in both the short and long term. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that the regional cancer plan for Health Nord is under review. In this context, Health Nord will present a decision-making process on future functional division in the case of intestinal cancer surgery at the Helgelands hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e847	Thank you for your answer. It is a rather special and eye-catching matter when the department is in a hurry and one now has the other temporary solution for a very important supply in the healthcare establishment. When both the Health Authority and Health Nord themselves say that this poses a risk of a lack of trust and a used 400,000 kroner to the PR agency only in September, it shows a bit of what kind of situation you are in. What I have a follow-up question about is how long the Council of State sees this temporary solution to continue, and whether the Council of State is insecure about what this situation has to say for recruitment to the Helgeland Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e854	What is important for the time when this temporary scheme can cease is that one is sure that the quality work now done at the Helgelands Hospital will also produce results related to the working environment and the cooperation climate between the two hospitals. As I also explained in conclusion, Health Nord works in parallel with a regional plan for the functional distribution of cancer, which will also be important in this context. I am concerned that this is now being followed up by both Health Nord and Helgelands Hospital. I have full confidence in the way Health Nord has handled this matter. We are totally dependent, not least on what is going to be the future hospital structure in Helgeland, on the fact that the Helgelands Hospital is being experienced as a single hospital, and that there is a good climate of cooperation between the hospital in Mo in Rana and the hospital in Sandness Lake.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e861	The last thing I agree with, that's why I have asked this question today. I am also concerned that the intestinal cancer surgery must return to the Helgeland Hospital as soon as possible. It has to do with recruitment and professional development, and it is a temporary solution that this should happen in Bodø. I hope that the Council of State actually helps to see, because it has to do with quality and security, especially in a situation where one is in an interim phase to build a new structure. Many have said and said in the debate that what has happened has as much to do with the structural debate, that it is a sort of rematch. Will the Council of State be able to reassure those who are now concerned that what is happening is actually more about a game of structure and responsibility than the actual professional arguments that have been put forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e866	The last question I can definitely answer yes to. This has nothing to do with a rematch on the structure of Helgeland. I perceive that both the management and the board of Health Nord are very concerned about following up the decision that has been made in that area. I understand that when one has been in such a conflict over a long period of time, one will often choose to interpret everything into such a context, but this is really about the opposite, namely that we are going to succeed in establishing the structure that we are now experiencing that there is a broad political consensus on in Helgeland, we are actually totally dependent on getting a completely different cooperation climate between the two hospitals. I believe that what Health Nord has done here is part of a contribution to changing that situation. I had a meeting with the rapporteur in Mo i Rana on this yesterday, and I will also have a meeting with the other Helgeland municipalities who have asked for a meeting, just to stress that the structural decision is firm and must be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e878	This question, from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice and Defence as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e883	‘The size has determined that the Hospital Namsos should be an emergency hospital. Helicopter landing site must be resolved on the hospital's areas. The issue of the adaptation of landing opportunities is being considered in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Namdalsavias writes on 13 October that project leader will not recommend funds for a new landing site at the Namsos Hospital. How will the Council of State ensure the necessary investment in new helicopter landing sites at the emergency hospital in Namsos, so that the new “SAR Queen” rescue helicopters can land at the hospital?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e890	The new rescue helicopters AW101, ‘SAR Queen’, are a significant boost to the country’s rescue and air ambulance capacity and will contribute to faster and better patient transportation under all kinds of weather conditions. Once phase-in work is completed, preparedness for the population of Norway will be significantly improved. The new helicopters have more weight and provide more rotor wind than the outgoing Sea King helicopters. It makes it necessary to make adjustments to helicopter landing sites in some Norwegian hospitals. The size was decided in the treatment of Prop. 146 S for 2010–2011, Acquisition of new rescue helicopters, etc. for the period 2013 to 2020, see: Inner. 82 S for 2011-2012 and Prop. 101 S for 2014-2015, Changes in the State Budget 2015 under the Ministry of Justice and Security, cf. Inner. 267 S for 2014-2015, that the Ministry of Justice and Security may implement infrastructure measures, including adaptation of the landing facilities of hospitals used by today’s rescue helicopters. The Namsos Hospital is one of the places where adaptations to the new helicopter are considered. Initially, the Ministry of Justice and Security is responsible for assessing the need for and implementing any adjustments to landing sites to the new helicopter type at the relevant hospitals in the country. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare to contribute to the implementation of the necessary physical adaptations. At the business meeting in January 2015, regional health businesses were asked to follow up this through Hospital Building HF. An agreement and a separate steering group have been established between the acquisition project of the new rescue helicopters and Hospital Building HF for the design and implementation of adaptations. The cost framework adopted by the Storting provides a financial framework for the acquisition of new rescue helicopters, including the adaptation of landing sites. Therefore, which hospitals will be adapted to landing sites, as other parts of the acquisition, will be subject to diet/benefit assessments where factors such as: the number of landings and take-offs, costs, medical/professional assessments and alternative landing options must be weighed against each other. The debate may sound like it's not certain that it's going to land rescue helicopters in Namsos in the future. Let me therefore be very clear that hospitals currently used by rescue helicopters will also be used by rescue helicopters in the future. This also applies to Namsos. The debate is therefore not about this, but about the adjustments that need to be made to bring it about. This is solved in different ways in Stavanger, Arendal and Trondheim, and we're going to work on a solution for Namsos in the future. In this context, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has received a recommendation from the NAWSARH project, which is to be assessed, but it has not yet been decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e905	We all expect a significantly improved preparedness with the new rescue helicopters, but a significantly improved preparedness also requires that the new helicopters can land and interact well with our emergency hospital. And readiness is about what can happen. The landings from today's helicopters have been few in the hospital in Namsos, and we should be happy about that, but we also have a history of major disasters that have also happened in Namsos. We had a plane crash back in the 1990s, and it's only been weeks since there's been a bigger rescue and search mission. Does the Council of State think that there is a solution where the new helicopters have to land at the airport, or will the Council of State ensure that investments are made to enable the hospital to interact with these new, amazing vessels?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e912	We agree that it's amazing ships, we get the world's best helicopters. That's a very good news. Then I had a little long answer, so the most important thing was not really communicated, namely that we have now received recommendations that are to be evaluated, but that are not yet settled. And then I've explained what assessment themes we want to address there. The important thing is that the hospitals that used rescue helicopters in the past should also do it in the future, and then we have to find ways to solve this that are within the cost framework we have at our disposal. We have not taken that decision, but the rescue helicopters, the new ‘SAR Queen’, will also land in Namsos.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e919	Now the state council didn't answer the question if it's good enough if the option becomes the airport a good piece away from the hospital. We, who saw the Day Revy yesterday, were also a little worried about the situation in other hospitals. At St. Olav's hospital it has been found that the air pressure in the new large, heavy machines is such that it is not safe to travel in the street below the hospital. In Health Nord, it has been warned that the new helicopters will land at the University Hospital. And in my own part of the country: On the second emergency hospital in Health Nord-Trøndelag, Levanger, there is also a split new landing platform on the roof of the hospital building. Does the Council of State see that this will be more necessary than the project assumes, when such major challenges are posed by the already established hospital landing sites – which are not on the list of new investment needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e928	We knew that the new helicopters are much heavier, and we knew that they have more rotor wind. We have experience from Denmark that shows that larger safety zones are required. Therefore, there may be different ways of dealing with this, but the most important thing is for them to be managed and for the hospitals currently using rescue helicopters to do so for the future. And so there's a lot, a lot better helicopters. But adjustments have to be made. We have known that, and that's why I presented quite detailed information about Storting's decisions and the information about the Storting in this acquisition period. So they have to be phased in, and in Stavanger, for example. solved by the helicopter landing on the Sun. They figured that out is a good solution. In Arendal they will land on Gold Knob or Kjevik. They figured that out is a good solution. I also saw that report from Trondheim, and I am absolutely sure that we will find a good solution there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e936	‘I record that the Minister of District has been travelling to flag the pilot project of the State House in some district municipalities. The Progress Party has received enquiries from concerned local politicians that it will be the municipalities that will eventually be left with the bill for the project. Can the State Council guarantee that the project Statens hus will be fully financed by the State and will not be a contribution to the municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e943	It was then Municipal Minister Monica Mæland who presented the district announcement when the Progress Party was in government. It was pointed out that the State House could be a good project to see more about how state agencies locally can cooperate better, and how synergies can be gained through better local interaction between state institutions. The government has now started to test out these pilots for the State Houses, where small and medium-sized government departments cooperate closely with each other and create a larger and better professional environment in smaller areas. We want to see if this can make it easier to maintain and recruit the necessary skills in the districts. It will also provide us with new knowledge of what are important factors to succeed in localising government businesses in smaller places. Therefore, the government has been concerned that these four pilots should be organised in different ways, because we want to evaluate and have follow-up research along the way that can provide us with useful insights into how to extract more of the state agencies that cooperate a lot more closely locally. We've started four pilots: in Lvgal, in Stadt, in Orkland and in Narvik. Some pilots may aim to achieve better results within, for example: recruitment, ICT and development of competences. Others may have the aim of establishing an interaction between municipalities and county councils. Pilots can cooperate in the premises they have today, they can cooperate digitally, and they can also co-locate physically if they want to, within the financial framework they have today. However, this should not entail any additional costs for the municipalities. This is precisely why state agencies are now looking at how best to organise themselves, with good dialogue towards the pilot municipalities, so that this can be done within the cost framework underpinning them. In the state budget for 2021, the government proposes 16 million. kr to the four pilots, in particular for the availability of project funding to ensure that there is good interaction between the State and the municipalities, and that we cover any costs associated with the co-location. This is primarily a cooperation between state agencies, and there is no pre-requisite for municipalities to contribute financial resources, either in the project or at the end of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e954	I must first thank you for my answer. Even if one indicates that initiative was taken when the Progress Party was put into government, it's not like we think it's a good idea when we're out of government. But I would like to thank one of you for clearly stating that the municipalities should not run any financial risk for the project to the state. The reason why we are concerned is what we could read in the local language of Lwagal's newspaper, where it says that it was a little concrete about the content when the minister presented this. Then there was a quote from the minister that a player plays the ball back to the pilot municipalities when it's up to filling the State House with concrete content. I understand that it is not the municipalities that play the ball back to, but the state itself in the specific places. It would be very good to clear up the use of manipulation, and that it is not the pilot municipalities who are responsible for a project that looked a little concrete when it was presented to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e961	I am very pleased that the representative Njåstad asked that question, and I want to clarify it. It has been very important for the government that there is a local interest and a local desire to set up such a pilot. Therefore, the municipalities are selected. First of all, only merged municipalities are selected. Secondly, we've been occupied by municipalities that have several state agencies, but that sit on each of their tues. The fact that trade unions can sit together, gather synergies and work in a completely different way makes it more attractive to locate jobs outside the larger cities as well. We see today that smaller places do not have the same opportunities to establish state jobs, because they are simply too weak professional environments. By building larger clusters of state competence workplaces, we want to make the districts more powerful. But I would like to emphasise again that it is the state that is going to take the cost of this, not the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e966	Everything that is clear is good, and that the municipalities do not take on an extra responsibility, but I do not get calm by and have no more faith that only one will co-locate several state bureaucrats or have a joint meeting in electronic social meeting places, this will be better. What I think the districts need is that state bureaucrats behave more like private businesses. It would have been much better if state agencies were out there and hit business where they are, and listen to their needs — the needs of municipalities when it comes to planning and building laws, and the needs of industry when it comes to regulation. I have no faith that there is a ludicrous model that state bureaucrats should learn from each other how to stab their heads in the wheels. It would have been much better if they had learned from business how to facilitate growth. I would have appreciated this initiative much more about how to be one that facilitates business and people in the districts than to gather state etatories and become a few about how to plague the districts, for which the County is the best exponent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e971	I think we're going to be a little bit clear about what state jobs we're talking about. We're talking about state jobs within Nav, child protection, police and tax haven. But I agree with the representative Njåstad that the state can do much more to facilitate, make things easier and be a contributor to private jobs being established to a greater extent around the district of Norway. And there are great possibilities. With the natural resources around, along the coast and in mountains and valleys, digitisation and the use of other technologies are very much to be recovered in order to create new jobs. There the state should definitely be a proponent, but then I think we're going to use other tools than the State House. The State House is a pilot project that will run over three years in four municipalities and will gather the state jobs that are already out there. If they can work more efficiently, I think everyone has something to pick it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e979	‘The National Association of Alpine Farms describes the situation as dramatic in a press release on 12 October and considers that the government’s crisis response has taken little action. Maintenance compensation for alpine installations only accounts for approximately one quarter. 12 percent of the industry applied for. Corresponding feedback also comes from amusement parks and travelling amusement parks. Is the Council of State willing to change the scheme so that the funds allocated to the Storting are actually used to safeguard the establishments in difficulty instead of remaining unused?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e986	Alpine facilities have had access to the same support schemes as other Norwegian establishments. In addition, a separate grant scheme was established for the Alpine facilities and amusement parks in order to allow them to carry out statutory maintenance under the requirements of the Tifoli and the cableway law. The background to the scheme was that the general compensation scheme for fixed, unavoidable costs did not compensate for maintenance costs. Alpine installations and other establishments authorised to operate under the Tifoli Act or the Tauban Act have statutory maintenance costs which cannot be reduced in the short term. There was also a background to the decision to compensate for the statutory maintenance costs for this group, in line with other fixed, unavoidable costs. The scheme applied to March, April and May. The aid is calculated in the same way as the aid to seasonal holdings in the general compensation scheme. That is to say, compensation is granted for a proportion of the annual maintenance costs corresponding to the proportion of the annual income lost by applicants as a result of the closure. The amount of the application referred to is the total annual statutory maintenance costs of the companies. The amount paid reflects the proportion of the annual income lost by the companies due to the closure in ours. On average, applicants for the scheme had lost about 15 pst. of its annual turnover, which was lower than initially assumed. For Alpine plants, this may be due to the fact that the sale of seasonal cards was early in the season and that many installations normally close at the beginning of April. The framework for the scheme was established on the basis of industry input, which suggested that about 20 pst. the placing on the market was used for necessary maintenance. Afterwards, it has been found that the statutory maintenance costs of the companies are much lower than what was initially assumed, and that the framework was therefore too large. The maintenance system for the tivoli and cableway undertakings has been correctly applied in the sense that the companies have been compensated for a proportion of their statutory maintenance costs. Installation that lost 15 pst. of the annual income during the season, has been compensated for by 15 pst. the costs, adjusted for a factor of 0,9, as in the general compensation scheme. Thus, the reason for the relatively low payment is that statutory maintenance costs have been found to be much lower than initially assumed and that many applicants have lost a much smaller proportion of their seasonal turnover than initially assumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1003	I thank you for the answer, but based on what is described as the reality of a number of actors in the industry, it is very difficult to recognize in the description of the Council of State here. A number of actors have suffered significant losses, much greater losses than the compensation they have received. For example, Ålen skisenter has lost approx. 0.5 million. NOK 39 000 in support. The beach fell down approx. two thirds of the seasonal turnover when Easter smoked, but only received a very small share of support. The Varningskollen, in my own area in Nittedal, has lost between 1.5 million. NOK 2 million. kr and has 1.9 million. NOK in statutory maintenance, but has so far not received a crown, because of a special situation relating to the previous period. There have also been others, such as Tyin-Fileberg, and Ljosland skisenter, who have been mentioned in today's business, and who have certainly received an offer of about NOK 1000, which is 0.5 pst. of what one applied for. Here, therefore, there are a number of actors who, because of different circumstances, have come out very badly. Is the Council willing to go in and look at this again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1012	I believe that the system we have had has been within the decision of Stortinget. It is certainly true, as the representative says, that in some cases it may have turned out differently than the general figures show. But yesterday I put forward a new scheme for travel life, a new compensation scheme, estimated at the cost of 1.3 billion. kr. It is uncertain what the next season will be for this part of the business, but we have now included the alpine plants in that scheme, so that they can compensate parts of their fixed and unavoidable costs. I hope as many nordics as possible who want to spend a day or more in the mountains to run with some activity, use the alpine facilities. It's still uncertain what it's like, but they're included in the new scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1021	But now the Alpine facilities are in a situation where one had significant losses at the end of the previous season, and they have had considerable government-determined maintenance costs. Within the framework of what has now been presented, I have also understood that there should be the possibility of a discretionary assessment. Will the Council of State go through and look at the effects for single actors — how the scheme has been shut down — so that one actually takes care of the Alpine sites around Norway? Very many of them are small plants based on a lot of volunteering, and where it is incredibly important that one can maintain this. Corresponding to the second part of the scheme, which runs on amusement parks and travelling amusement parks, which depend on having a lot of maintenance in winter and which continues to operate well beyond the harvest: Will the Council of State, for example, look at the duration of the maintenance scheme, so that a greater proportion of their maintenance costs can be included, also other types of maintenance than only those relating to entertainment facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1030	This special scheme itself for compensating parts of the statutory maintenance costs has been completed. It applied in ours and not now. However, we have paid great attention to this part of travel and business. That's also why we gave 600 million. kr in ours, which was distributed locally – precisely because you should be able to see that it was part of our travel and business that was very hard hit. Now we have included them in the new compensation scheme, which will apply to the rest of this year. We're also going to follow up; we're going to see what progress is going to be. But I also hope that these will have good activity in the season that comes, and I hope that, although we may not be able to travel to Austria and ski, we can use our Norwegian facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1046	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1054	‘The fight against crime in maritime nutrition is very important for Norway and our reputation as a seamate. This was the background for former State Councillor Harald Tom Nesvik setting up in 2018 a public body to advise on future fisheries control. Among other things, the selection was to look at how we can best use the overall control resources in the fight against illegal fishing, and they made their recommendations in NOU 2019: 21 Future Fisheries Control in November 2019. Will the Council of State bring a case to Stortinget as a follow-up to the NOU, so that the Storting can deal with this important matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1061	First, I would like to commend the representative for addressing an important question. I very much agree that the entrance to this issue, the fight against crime in the marine food industry, is very important for Norway and our reputation as a seamate. Most importantly, it is for the sustainable management of our fish and our marine resources – plus increased value creation for the serious part of the industry. This is at least the work I put at the highest level on my priority list. The Fisheries Control Committee provided a number of good advice. In line with the mandate, they dealt with three main themes: the use of new technologies to document capture and turnover, better use of overall control resources through improved competence and organisation of control authorities, and regulatory changes to promote compliance. The need to improve fishing control is urgent. Since the main gravity of the sample's advice can be implemented within today's legislation, I am in full swing with the follow-up. The Directorate for Fisheries has made proposals for fishing and position reporting from all vessels out of consultation, and the Ministry has just received the Fisheries Directorate's proposal for a specific regulatory change for consideration. At the same time, the Directorate-General for Fisheries and Adjustersets are preparing a concrete proposal for a new regulatory framework for automated weighing systems for the reception of fish. With the State Budget proposal, the Government is facilitating the financing of the necessary effort on good digital solutions and enhanced capacity and competence for the Directorate-General for Fisheries’ control. I have also initiated dialogue with the judicial authorities on the follow-up of the Board of Governors to strengthen the crime prevention work in the fisheries sector. The Ministry has also established good cooperation with Ecocrim. It is also the case that the sample made proposals for legislative changes, which the Storting must deal with before they can be implemented. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to change the role of the sales laws in the control process and the proposals for stricter responses to offences. Both of these questions require a more detailed investigation before the government has sufficient decision-making power to consider any proposals for legislative changes. We will therefore look at the whole of the measures we see as necessary to implement, before deciding how this work will be completed, and whether it will be natural to return to the Stortinget on a separate matter. In any case, I want to make sure that the Storting is properly briefed and is given the opportunity to express my opinion on the questions we find natural, for example. in the budget proposal of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1084	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. I am also pleased that the Minister is doing the important work. It is important for all of us, not least for us as a fishing nation. As the minister points out, it is also about conditions of competition, a level playing field, and it is about selling our fish to markets, we must be able to say that this has been done in a proper and legal way. The Minister of Fisheries would not conclude whether he would come back to Stortinget with his own case. I think there are so many big and important questions here that I think it would be natural to get a complete case on this. Now we get one part of the state budget now, and the Minister of Fisheries is working on more, but there are also even more measures, which are quite large, in the proposal from the sample. Among other things, it is proposed that the supervisory and supervisory functions be distinguished. What does the Minister for Fisheries think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1091	We're going to take the shortest path to the goal, so when there are measures that can be implemented without legislative changes, we've started a work to get things moving quickly that we think are important, and that must not be approved by the Storting. In the case of proposals requiring legislative changes, and major issues, we will return to the Storting duly. At the same time, we will keep Stortinget informed about the work that has been undertaken. Now there have been consultation processes, and there have been recordings and dialogues with the industry itself. It's also an important part of the decision base before we move on. Then I also think it is very important that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinge behind such work, and I also feel that the industry itself is very concerned that we are going to take good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1100	If you want a good consensus and a great deal of consensus in Stortinget, it is important to get a case to Stortinget first, and then hopefully you can see if you can agree – and what you may not agree on. I just want to raise two measures, which I also tried on the previous question, and hear the Minister's assessment of it. One is that the sample proposes to separate the organisational control and supervision function in the directorate. The second proposal, which is of a slightly larger nature, is the need to set up two cross-border fishing crimp centres. What does the Minister for Fisheries think of the two measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1109	In the case of fishing crimps, there is a process and a discussion with the police, which had a certain scepticism for the type of fishing crimps. But the important thing is that there is a very thorough and good work going on, for example. at the analysis unit in Vardø, which provides background information for follow-up, which has contributed to the detection of a good deal of fishing crime. We haven't clarified those questions yet and will come back to Stortinget with it if necessary. What I think is important is that we quickly get the proposals that do not need to change the law. There are many good suggestions from the sample that we want to follow up. Then we have conducted a hearing and received feedback on what we have thought so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1116	Then the ordinary question time has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-21.ana.ud297e1130	There is no record available. Thus, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
