ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives Bears Moxnes and Une Bastholm, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The representative, Roy Steffensen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e43	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen, Sivert Bjørnstad, Silje Hämdal and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to remove the local authorities' right to apply for a high-level national road fare.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e48	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e53	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Arne Nävra, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson and myself, I would like to make a proposal on climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e58	The representative, Mr Nordlund, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e63	On behalf of Jan Bøhler, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Kjersti Toppe, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on new area initiatives against outsiders among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e68	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e84	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide and the Councils of State Knut Arild Hareide and Tina Bru will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e91	Social dumping shall be involved in the transport sector, so that the Minister of Transport is the right recipient. Unfortunately, the transport sector is characterised by too much social dumping. We see it in aviation, we see it in land transport, we see it on the railway, and we see it in the taxi industry. Wages are being pushed, working conditions are being pushed, and many in the industry work under conditions of employment we simply do not want – or in other words: social dumping. Today's Business Today has a notice about the airline Wizz Air, and according to the notice, the employees of the airline themselves have to pay pensions and insurance. They could lose their job in the daytime. They don't get sick money if they get sick. They have very poor pay terms. And we all know how that company deals with trade unions and trade unions. This is simply social dumping. We don't want it like that in Norway. We don't want airlines or other operators in the transport industry doing this. My question to the Minister of Transport is: What does he think about what has been revealed in terms of pay and working conditions in Wizz Air, and what does he do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e102	I share the representative Sverre Myrlis' entrance here. I think we should have a good transport market, we must have good operators who provide good services. It must be possible to make a good impression on the job you have. It is helping to create far-reaching conditions for the transport industry. So the question was related to Wizz Air, which has been in the Norwegian market for quite many years. Before covid-19 it was one of the airlines that flew most in and out of Norway, I think we should be very conscious. What we've done to covid-19 is that we've come up with measures, measures that we've been very conscious of are going to hit the players that have been in the Norwegian market. All the measures we have come with – we have come with a package of up to 13–14 billion. kr, which has been both to airports and to airlines – we see that we have hit not least the operators that have operated in Norway. Then I'm thinking of Norwegian, SAS and Onkøe. When it comes to Wizz Air, they have the ability to have air services in Norway, but it'll probably be harder for that company too if they're going to operate very much on domestic air routes. Then they'll have a different structure, and it'll probably be difficult for that airline to keep that business model, too, because of leadership with Norwegian bases. Then one must adhere to Norwegian laws and working conditions in a completely different way. Competition in the aviation market was opened up in the 1990s as part of the EEA Agreement. There is also a basis for today's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e113	Yes, it's on the ground. But the new thing about Wizz Air is that they're flying domestic routes in Norway, between airports in Norway. It's something new. In the past, they have flown between Norway and foreign destinations. It challenges us in a very special way. I asked the Minister of Transport what he wanted to do about the fact that Wizz Air now wants to enter the Norwegian aviation market. So in a situation where the serious airlines are struggling, the unprofessional actors come in too fully. The Labour Party has made twelve proposals for a serious and sustainable aviation. They are now being treated in the Storting. Among other things, we have proposed that air carriers should have permanent posts with direct employment, that air carriers should accept professional organisation and that there should be so-called home base rules. The question to the Minister for Transport is: Is this proposal from the Minister for Transport that he thinks is interesting and that he might consider looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e118	I'm open to looking at a lot of suggestions, just to keep a serious working life. I think it has been important that the measures we have taken have taken the serious actors. In the budget for 2021 there is 2 billion. kr for the purchase of air route. There we have the possibility to put in conditions that hit them seriously, also because that's the kind of actors we want, and that we think makes aviation the most conservative. I'm willing to look at that, and we're also willing to use it. But I want to say that there's a difference, as the representative Myrli also says, on routes that go in and out of Norway, and routes within Norway. I would also say that Wizz Air will have enough challenges with its model if they get too much domestic flight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e125	It opens for follow-up questions – first Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e130	I have discussed the situation in aviation with the Minister of Transport many times. The only measure the government has, and the only answer we get, is that the government is now purchasing more air services from SAS, Norwegian and Ontøe. That's good. But it's a short-term measure because we're in a very special situation because of the virus outbreak. It's not something that solves the long-term challenges in aviation. The Labour Party has put forward proposals for consideration. SV has put forward proposals and the Central Party has made proposals. These are now being treated in the United Kingdom. Where the opposition parties have previously made proposals, such as: on measures concerning the seriousness of land transport, government parties have rejected only the proposals without further delay. It has not even been interesting to have a dialogue with the opposition on proposals. Is the Minister for Transport and Government now interested in a dialogue with the opposition, so that we can get together some strong measures for aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e137	The measures we have taken in the aviation sector are very much in agreement with the Stortinget. It was precisely in cooperation with the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Senterpartiet we landed the first aviation package. I also feel that it has our agreement on priorities. It's not just routes we've come with. We have also come with a great compensation to Avinor, who has made us hold so to say all airports open during this time. When they came down, it wasn't because of the economy, but because of the crisis preparedness. We have removed the charges from Avinor, which has done better for the airlines. We have removed VAT. We also have certain compensation in the FOT route offer. The 2020 package is between 13 and 14 billion. kr. I refer only to the loan guarantee scheme, such as: has struck very well for SAS, Norwegian and Onkøe. So we have a bunch of measures. But what I think we have to be careful about is going into a single company, which means, among other things, that. creditors, possibly a leasing company, are not involved in taking their share of the responsibility, since there is no competition here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e144	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e149	My questions concern measures against social dumping. The Minister of Transport frameworks the crisis response in the very difficult situation. That's good, but there's no response to aviation challenges on a longer-term basis. But we can move on to the railway sector, because also on the railways we now see pressure on pay and working conditions as a result of government privatisation and outsourcing policies. Earlier this fall I was visiting Marienborg, the railway station in Trondheim. That's where I met Wenche Bye, who's been chosen to trust the cleaners on the railroad, i.e. those who wash the trains. The Minister of Transport has met Wenche Bye in the past. The cleaners, those who wash the trains, were cancelled and had to start in a new company at a much lower salary than they had before. What is the Minister of Transport's response to the Wenche Bye and the cleaners on the railway, who have had worse pay conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e157	To close the aviation round: all the measures we have come with have hit what I would call the serious operators in aviation. That seems to me to be a success. It's been a good time. When it comes to the railways, we've had a new reorganization of it. It has led to competition. I don't think competition is negative for the railway. I believe that precisely in competitive sectors, both innovation and development are very good. We know that the competition we've had has meant that as a community, we've saved maybe 12 billion dollars. kr only on the first three contracts. There's money that we can now use to develop the railway, to take him into a new future. What we've only seen in the last ten years is that we've gone from just taking care of the railway to really developing it. The main beneficiaries are those who work in the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e164	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e169	The point of the inquiry is that the representatives of the government should ask questions, and then the members of the government should answer, preferably on what they are asked about. I asked a question about the cleaners on the railway, who have thus fallen in wages, got worse pay and working conditions – despite the fact that the parties that have adopted the so-called railway reform, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, got up several times and said that no one should lose their job, and that no one should get worse pay and working conditions as a result of the railway reform. Toilet holders have had lower pay conditions. They have fallen considerably into pay and lost rights. Is it the cleaners that don't talk right, or is it the government and government parties that don't talk right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e176	I feel that my previous answer was just a response to the reorganisation we have within the railway. There we have seen in works three packages of traffic. We've postponed the fourth because we need more time because of the covid-19. It shows that this is not an ideological project, but a thought that we want to do what we think is best for the country. Then we've put some leaders. There are some working groups that keep the job fully in line with the criteria laid down for both transport packages 1, 2 and 3. Then there are some groups that haven't followed according to the assessments that were made. It's my answer to this, that this is a sector that experiences competition, that experiences development. There is nothing negative about pay and working conditions in that sector. I think the most demanding thing for the railway sector would have been if we had chosen not to give priority to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e183	Øystein Langholm Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e188	In a very recent report on the taxi industry, prepared by TØI and Fafo, which was published this month, we can read what the taxi drivers say: ‘The service and pride of pursuing a respected profession will be totally absent [[...]] Furthermore, several copyright holders point to: ‘The changes in the way the taxi profession has been understood and described in Norway, from being a job that gave both stable income and status, to no longer being seen as a ‘ordinary’ job.’ [[...]] This has also been confirmed by the undersigned in conversations when I take a taxi to and from the airport in Stavanger. I wonder if the Council of State can tell these drivers who are driving me whether liberalisation in the taxi industry will contribute to or counteract social dumping in this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e205	I believe that the effects of this new regulation on the taxi industry are too early to say anything about it. It has been 25 days with a new reform. We chose to postpone the reform from 1 July to 1 November due to the covid-19 situation. We should be aware that there is also a means here for states to create one-rights to provide guidance on what they want, and to put in contacts. The dialogue I have had about this shows that there are enough people who are waiting to see how the new market works before they decide how active they are to use the many possibilities contained in this drier regulation. Then we should also be aware that we are continuing to demand taxi tickets. We introduce a trade-competence requirement for drivers of taxis. I don't think we can say that the Norwegian regulation is exactly the same as it is in the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e214	Øystein Langholm Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e219	I wondered if the Council of State could tell my drivers whether liberalisation would contribute to or counteract social dumping. In the case of exclusive rights, it applies in municipalities which introduce it. But the drivers who drive me are in Stavanger City, and they will not be covered by an exclusive right in any case. It's applied for hundreds of permits only in the first few days. So here's enough to get a lot of new drivers in when it's now an intention to remove the taximeter. Will this contribute to, or will it counteract, social dumping in the taxi industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e226	It's like this is a new regulation. One's talking about social dumping here. We get a competition in a market that has also had competition in the past. We know that ESA was clear that the regulation we had, we had to do something with whatever. We know that innovation and innovation are going to shape this industry. I think taxi drivers had to stick to it anyway. We are concerned that this should be a good and well-functioning profession. We have to follow up when we look at how this regulation works, that this can be a good job. But there is no reason why this regulation will lead to social dumping. Yes, there will be competition in a market that has also had competition in the past. Now there's going to be another competition. I'll have a meeting with the taxi industry tomorrow. I follow developments closely, also to see if adjustments are needed. But now this regulation has worked for 25 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e237	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e243	Various company structures are being established which make the real responsibilities of employers now unclear in Norwegian working life. It creates insecurity for workers. Wizz Air makes use of the European Union’s Posting Directive, so that the flight crew from Poland are placed in Trondheim and Oslo to crew the aeroplanes that are there and the crew are in Norway for a maximum of three months at a time. For these flight crews, according to the Central Party’s assessment, Norwegian Working Environment Act applies, but Wizz Air uses a grey zone in the law to weaken the Norwegian working life model. Therefore, in the opinion of the Centre Party, a supplement to the Working Environment Act is needed, a cross-sectional rule according to the tax law. It shall be such that when an enterprise employs workers who do not have the status of employee, the worker shall be considered to be an employee, i.e. whose relationship indicates that the purpose has been to circumvent, in whole or in part, the protection afforded to an employee by the environmental protection law. Will the Council of State take the initiative to initiate such an improvement in law based on the experience of Wizz Air, in relation, for example, to a company the Prime Minister wants to boycott?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e250	I'm going to be careful to say something directly about the work environment law, but when it comes to the EEA agreement, I think everyone is happy about him these days. He's in on secure us vaccine capabilities in 2021. I think everyone is grateful for that, and we see the big advantage. He also provides some leads for competition that we care about. But I think it's important that we do what we can to ensure a respectable and worthwhile working life. As I have said, when it comes to aviation, there are some worrying conditions in companies like Wizz Air. That they have possibilities when it comes to approach and departures to and from Norway is one thing, but if they are based on a model with significant domestic flights, they will have to consider it. We also have the possibility, in the conditions we see for, among other things. flight purchases, to say something about the standard and quality we want from the companies that get them offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e257	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e262	The air is for everyone, we once said in an old children's play. This is obviously a consequence of the EEA Agreement we have signed, to which the Council of States also refers. So we see that Wizz Air is entering the Norwegian market. They see the market lying there, they see opportunities when other companies lie down with their backs broken. The market is open. They have a price war now, a price dumping to get in with social dumping. We see that even the Prime Minister turns his back on the new company and will not use it because it does not follow Norwegian labour law legislation. Then my specific question to the Council of State is: Are we bound on the hands and feet of the EEA Regulation, so that we do not sea master those who are going to drive cabotage in aviation? Is that so, or does the Council of State see any tools to stop a company we don't want?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e269	The problem the representative Nävra is dealing with here, I think I'm important. I also mean that it is the Competition Authority that has the job to follow that part of the market, not least that one does not exploit the very special situation we now have, including. price dumping. We have seen that some other countries have taken action. That authority is at the Competition Authority, and the Minister of Industry and I consider sending a request to them to follow developments in this area. It is because we are engaged in having a good and well-functioning competitive market, but that one should not be able to take advantage of the very special situation that is now. In general, if you're a small actor, you have more and more possibilities to use a price. Is a big and dominant actor, has fewer possibilities of using that tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e276	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e281	In 2018, the Hareide majority secured a Red proposal for action to get more trade unionised, as recognition of the value of the trade union movement. It was a breach of the platform of the government he is now sitting in. So Wizz Air, as we know, has been called an airline without trade unions. Today we read that they hire a lot of the staff through a crew company, which neither provides pensions, insurance nor sick pay. You can lose your job in the daytime. These companies do not belong in the Norwegian labour force, we believe, and we wonder if Hareide will call in Wizz Air on the carpet to make sure that they will respect the Norwegian model and also allow employees to organize and get a collective agreement. And not least, what will Hareide do if it turns out that Wizz Air doesn't comply with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e286	I would first like to comment on the draft representative to which Mr Moxnes refers. I think that's a good suggestion. It shows how important it is with professionally organized. I think that what the trade unions have done for the construction of Norway has an incredible value, and we know that the very business that works well with the trade unions is experiencing a great and positive growth. That's what I mean. I would like to contact Wizz Air and tell them what my expectations are – and also be clear about what is the Norwegian model, and that we think he is very good. I also have to stick to the competition law as it is leading, we all have to, but we have to use the space for action to follow up the Norwegian model. I feel that there is a large number of people in this room who want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e295	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e300	It is good to hear that Hareide will contact Wizz Air. Then the question is whether the Council of State has any rice behind the mirror, or whether the EEA Agreement makes it impossible for Norwegian politicians to actually ensure that what is the rule of law in Norwegian working life is complied with as long as it is part of the EEA Agreement. Another area where, unfortunately, the state may not do its job in limiting social dumping is what happens through Bring Trucking, which is part of the Bring Group, and which is owned by the Post Norway and thus by the Norwegian State. Recently, a Romanian truck driver lost in the Danish court against Norwegian Bring Trucking. He got a Slovak salary, but mostly drove Bring's trucks in Scandinavia. Bring has added its head office to Slovakia, so Bring has paid the driver a Slovak salary, even though he is from Romania and has been driving a car in Scandinavia. Does the Hareide State Council think it is right that state-owned Norwegian groups thus pursue social dumping in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e309	This is really about where the companies are established and where they are. I think we should know that if a company is established in a country, they must also stick to the kind of wage and working conditions in that country. Here the representative shows Moxnes to Scandinavia, but we know that if one is in Norway, is established in Norway, has head office in Norway and runs in Norway, one must also stick to the kind of wage and working conditions that are here. I think that's the neat and good way to do this. I do not know the specific matter to which the representative Moxnes refers, so I will not express myself specifically about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e317	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e322	It is nice that the Minister of Transport also finally takes the trip here to the oral Questionnaire, because after the government provided the budget and the package of measures, there have been many concerns about the government's lack of commitment to transport, and especially on the road side. There is no doubt that there is a completely different pace change now than when the Progress Party put in government with our two Ministers for Transport, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Jon Georg Dale. Then there was a traffic winner every year, and there was a single big uphill and real bet on transportation, with 80 pst. increase, which resulted in a high level of road impact. Roads were built at a pace that had never seen the husband, and it smelled asphalt throughout the country. But after seven years of marching, it has not taken the minister more than seven months to put a full brake on the road appropriations. The braking now has a major impact on the business community, because in addition to the government stopping the drive of the Progress Party, we have also had the Corona situation at the top. It has made it increasingly demanding in recent times. It makes businesses and businesses look darker and darker in the future. In the NHO’s last membership survey, the proportion of enterprises reporting lower demand increased from 49 pst. to 56 pst. Entrepreneur's Association – Construction and Construction can at the same time report that their industry is hit hard, that things stop and are put on hold. At the same time, the Minister for Transport has presented a budget in which road traffic is actually falling. It's completely wrong medicine, and the industry needs to see that there's light in the tunnel. The Coronapandemy has been embossing the country since March. Hasn't the minister at the time realized that it's actually now you have to bet, give gas and make sure to keep people working?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e333	This is a description that I don't know about. So in the budget that we set out at the beginning of October, the budget for transport is over 80 billion for the first time. kr. It's now 81.4 billion. I'm going to have $7.2 billion. kr more than what was then the 2020 budget. So it's a historical commitment to culture. So it's true that we have to give extra priority to rail purposes this year, and that's because of the excesses that have been in that sector. I'm not going to go too far when it's about who's responsible for the excesses we've had in the railway sector, but it was difficult for me to do something about the kind of excesses when I arrived in January 2020. But that's why we've increased rail traffic from 26 billion. NOK 32 billion. kr. So we haven't had a bigger increase in the transport budget than what we've had in my time, but I have, for absolutely necessary reasons, a way of prioritizing the railways. And we have prioritised urban growth agreements, which also have an increase in this budget of 20 p.m., agreements that are now concluded, and on which we are also obliged. So there's a flattening on the road, that's right, but the option would be to have stopped the railway project, built up, paused for one to two years, built up, rebooted. It's been a model we've never followed. Then the project would have cost 4 billion. All of a sudden, the cost is $6 billion. kr. Project costing 1 billion. kr, would have cost 1.5 billion. kr. That would be bad use of our common resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e342	I feel that the Minister of Transport is trying to dispel the reality, that there is less money on the road with what the government has just presented. That means that Stangeland Machine AS and Risa AS in Rogaland leave 140 employees. Entrepreneur company Isachsen Installation recently announced that they are going to take down 100 posts, among others. as a result of failure of order entry and that, after the coronary apathy occurred in March, the situation has been demanding due to low levels of mission. Entrepreneurship — Construction and Construction are afraid that thousands of jobs may disappear. This is happening now. I would like to remind the Minister to consider more powerful measures before we see even more downpours. So there's no sunshine history, as the Minister of Transport says it is, on the roadside. It could have been tempting to ask the Minister if he has anything he wants to say to the many who are now going out into unemployment and leave because the government has put the brakes on too fully for appropriations for road transport and asphalting. The industry needs positive news and full gas – not full stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e349	I want to say that the representative Hoksrud says is right. Just on the road side, it's an flare. There is no new investment in the budget that the government put forward in October, but it comes entirely out of the huge investment that is already committed to – rail and urban growth. We have also come up with measures during 2020, exceptional measures that take both national road and county road objectives. So we're talking about billions. And of course we do this because we want the plant industry going on. That is very important. But that total budget is over 80 billion. SEK – 81.4 billion. kr right now. So it's going to be 7.2 billion. kr more than it was after the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e354	There will be follow-up questions – first Morten Stordalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e359	Entrepreneur’s Association – Construction and Construction now agrees with the Advance Party that an additional asphalt billion is needed. An additional billion to asphalt is about 1000 jobs and will mean about 1 000 jobs. 1,800 km of county road. That means, to illustrate, the distance in the airline from Lindesnes to Nordkapp. It has been known since the Korona measures in March that there is a great need and that there will be challenges in several industries — including this one. The question is then: Was not the Minister for Transport present during the government's budgetary negotiations, or was not the Minister for Transport so concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e364	I never mind getting an extra asphalt billion. That's what I think might be a good prioritization of money. What I'm not willing to do is build a project we're doing. I mean, no matter what time you come in to run a department, you have to take responsibility for what's there from before. Then I was busy completing the work that was there on the railway, even if the cost exceedances came. Once urban growth agreements have been concluded with cities, on important projects for collective, walking and cycling, we must follow it up. So there's a huge stake on the railways now and on the total traffic, but that increase is just enough on urban growth agreements, maintenance and railway, and not so much on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e369	Kirsti Leirtrö – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e374	The construction industry expects an investment decline of well over 100 billion. kr in the next two years, and they're worried. Municipalities and county councils are now reducing their investments. The state road system is facing a large-scale reorganization. At the same time, foreign entrepreneurs are increasing their share of large-scale transport projects. Although the construction industry has received some action packages, it is too late to announce a project, and they are too few, they say. The construction industry does not ask for financial support, but for assignments. In view of this, what measures will the government take to safeguard the Norwegian plant industry in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e381	I think exactly the kind of news that came before the weekend, that we started Rogfast, a project of 25 billion. kr – I see how pleased I am. The construction industry in the Rogaland area was particularly important. The fact that we're going to do a lot of work that we know we're going to do is one of the most important things we can do. The representative, Leirtrø, also deals with foreign actors, but I would like to say that speech is quite good for the Norwegian entrepreneurs involved. So in the last number we have, it's like we're up against over 90 pst. which are Norwegian entrepreneurs, and there are relatively good figures. We don't want a market with only Norwegian, we also want to have some foreign input, but it's important that we do what we can to get the big projects going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e389	Bengt Fasterøne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e394	For the Centre Party, it is important to ensure activity and growth throughout the country. As has been said before, the maintenance seat is only available in state and county transport infrastructure now of 100 billion. kr. There is a good place in the order books, says the contractors, and if the capacity is to be built down, the contracting entities will pay extra to build up capacity after the crisis. There is also the capacity of the builders to start more work. For example, Path NOR says: that they can increase renewal on the railway by SEK 1.7 billion. kr in relation to the amount set aside in the next year’s budget. We have the capacity to implement several measures, say municipalities, county councils and the state road system. So now we need a countercyclical policy. The capacity is in the hands of builders and entrepreneurs, and there is an alarming need for maintenance, while the state pays large sums to people on leave. Why is the government sitting on the fence instead of taking action to get people to work and get them done away with intrusive maintenance throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e403	That's the opposite we've done. We've done what we could to keep the activity up during the coronatide. It's been demanding with the infectious disease situation we've had, with the infectious disease code we've had. We have seen that, so to speak, all railway and road projects have moved on. It's good for the construction industry. In addition to the budgets we have had, we have just brought the means of maintenance on the national road and on the county road, and with the current budget, the maintenance run on the national roads will go down by 2021. So we know that we have a relatively big challenge with the maintenance run on the county roads. What I think is a question we have to address in the national transport plan, but also here we already have this cottage with several new hundreds of millions, just to give the opportunity to take down the chase on the county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e410	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e415	The centre party is engaged in good and safe transport throughout Norway. People, fish and goods need to get there quickly. We need good roads, good railways, planes, express buses, boats, ferries and fast routes. But eight years of right-wing government have made transport and logistics more difficult in many parts of the country. The counties are underfunded. Coastal states are under pressure on routes and on ticket prices, and we've had a lot of ferry riots. The railway is cost-effective and many important projects are not addressed. Railways almost seem to have forgotten their core tasks – building track and running trains – and are concerned with reorganisation, fragmentation and outsourcing and hiring communication managers and directors. The aircraft has received 70 pst. fee increase in the last eight years. And there's been the hardest way out of the short-haul network and internal aviation intermediate landings. The stork will have more goods from the road and over on the sea and the track. But the fast route is still standing between Bodø and Kirkenes, although the goods are going from the north to Ålesund and Kristiansund. Does the Council of State see that government's transport policy is helping to centralize this country and create major geographical differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e422	I am totally disagreeable in the description given by the representative Mossleth here. In the course of seven years, the budget for transport is now double. The railway budget is triple in seven years. On the railway we have gone from taking care of the railway to actually developing it. We see the number of road projects that are now built, the road budget is not triple, but it is double in the same years. I sat under the red-green government as leader of the Transport Committee, experienced a call to bet on this sector, and it has actually been done by the government of Solberg in all sectors. That's what I mean, I'm just something that benefits District Norway. When we choose to bet on the railways, on the road, on communications, it's something that matters first and foremost to business and people who live in District Norway. This is part of creating jobs. Then there will always be an even greater need, and even greater demand for roadway, but no one can take from the government of Solberg that it has been a huge investment just on the road. Paradoxically, the only thing that has gone down is the salary of the Vy Director, who, under the Center Party regime, received a higher salary, relative to the new Vy Director who came now. So the descriptive representative Mossleth here gives, I'm totally disagreed with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e427	The large increase to the railway is largely cost exceedances. Cost-benefit calculations result in roads with a high number of passenger services being given priority over roads with important commercial transport. If we're going to count heads and shorten travel time in the four-field, we also have to count fish heads and delays in the transportation of goods. Value loss due to delays on the road does not count. Freight delays of almost 4000 hours only on the E10 Bjørnfjell winter 2019 are not included in the diet–benefit calculations, and patients in Finnmark may experience that a 15-minute MR study requires a 16.5-hour journey. Does the Minister not see that this is unfair and makes it extra difficult for people and businesses in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e434	I think the socio-economic assessments of the projects are useful, but they are not what we can see entirely, alone. We're forced to see it in a health perspective, and I think it's important that we politicians do it. It's like right now there's a road project built in all over the country. One of the measures that has really made it possible for us to build new road projects is New Roads, which has managed to reduce the cost of the road projects they have received and which have helped to increase their benefits. But it's not just New Roads that have done. This has also been done by the State Road Administration with its work in Northern Ireland. That's where I thought they were going. With the work they've done on E16 File Mountain, they've also done the same. It's the way that so absolutely predominates District Norway. So there will always be a greater need, but no one can assume that there are built more roads these seven years than it has been in Norway for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e441	It opens for follow-up questions – first Bengt Fasterøne.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e446	The centre party will have a better and fairer express bus offer throughout the country. All social discounts to children, students and the elderly must be covered by the companies themselves, but the government pays discounts on train tickets. This has been mentioned many times before. The bus companies have been voiced for a long time. 24 express bus routes have been closed since 2012, many of them, almost all of them, before the Corona. When the first business crisis packages came in March, the express buses were not covered by this scheme but were asked to benefit from the cash support scheme. In July, the government decided to grant 100 million. NOK for commercial bus routes, and last week the scheme was extended into 2021. Nevertheless, many operators remain without having received a penny. Many of the bus companies in the district operating in both regular and travel life were hit twice by the coronary apathy. Now that the companies have gone for months without payment, they disappear from the market, and once again the districts are bleeding. What's the Council of State going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e453	I share the concerns that Mr Fasterøne raises here. The express bus routes mean a lot to District Norway. That's why we brought the order of 100 million. kr, which would be a remedial measure. Here I am sorry that the scheme was implemented in a way that we did not fully know about the routes, and some were excluded from the first arrangement that we got ESA approved. So we've done a new job, and we're now asking to get the ESA approved, so that we can pay the 100 million. kr. Of course, it should have happened before, but we hope that it can happen as soon as possible, so that that arrangement hits these bus routes. And then we also have a new 100 million. kr for the first six months of 2021. I believe that when we get these schemes implemented, it will be a very good step to ensure the express bus routes. It should have happened before, but unfortunately it has not proved possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e459	Willfred Nordlund – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e464	Aviation is important, and in District Norway, the short-haul network and the offer made by the small aircraft are vital to many. It could be a be or not for a small business, it could be what makes you get the hospital examination that saves your life, and it could be what makes you get to visit your grandparents or mother and father when the time doesn't go by. It simply binds the country together. There is a large difference between the proportion of passenger income in the various counties and regions and how the country pays its share. The question is really whether the Minister of Transport can guarantee that the right-wing government will ensure that the provision of air services in the districts will survive and get enough money to keep prices down, now that responsibility has to be shifted from state to state, in what seems to be a long-term aviation crisis. Is the Council of State considering postponing it all?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e471	I can answer yes to the question that I can guarantee a good flight offer also in District Norway. That's because the air supply here is the public transport. It's absolutely necessary for us to be happy with that. But my wish is that we implement that change from 1 April 2022, as we promised the county. I also feel that the county is working very well to take over the flight routes, and I believe it is right that we implement it. There's also a relatively long time left, it's almost a year and a half in time, and I hope we have a different coronary situation in 2022 than what we now have in the autumn of 2020. But it's important that we enable the county to do that. I've met many of the counties. I feel that they're ready for this task, and that they're just conscious of ensuring a good flight offer. It will be my job to follow up until 1 April 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e480	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e485	I'm going to give the Minister of Transport a break. I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. Last week the government brightened out the 25th concession round. It's perhaps the worst oil license award ever when you look at environmental and climate impacts. Not only is the allocation record high despite being in the midst of a climate crisis that is becoming more dramatic year by year, month by month, 60 pst. of the notified blocks are also located in vulnerable sea areas. So here the government shows an amazing willingness to gamble with vulnerable nature, climate and money at once. It's about one of the most important spawning grounds for herring. These are important areas of sea, cod and haze. There are vulnerable nature types here, such as coral reefs and areas with lots of seabirds. What we see is that all – I repeat: all of them – environmental warnings against oil drilling in these vulnerable areas are disregarded and overrun by the government. It is not possible to get a clearer illustration that environmental advice does not play a role in this government. That is why my question is to the Minister of Oil and Energy: why has the government chosen to overcome absolutely all environmental warnings against oil drilling in vulnerable sea areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e496	The ordinary concession rounds on the Norwegian base are a very important part of our petroleum policy, just as the TFO rounds are. There is a broad majority in the UK to implement concession rounds and to have TFO rounds. The framework underpinning the call for the 25th concession round is a direct follow-up to the Granavolden platform and a direct follow-up to the Stortingen decision through the management plan setting the framework. There are none of the designated areas that are not in line with the frameworks set by the Storting. I don't think it's so surprising that SV is against this round, because SV wants a plan to wind up the industry. They don't want any more concession rounds. It would be quite natural for SV to be against any new concession round. My responsibility as the Council of State is to relate to the framework for which we are going to have activity. It is also very important for most parts of the Storting that we maintain the rounds, that we declare attractive areas, in order to maintain exploration, in order to be able to find more, in order to develop more viable findings, which are important for the creation of value in Norway, in order to maintain the activity of the petroleum industry, which will also be important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e505	I recorded that the council had almost 50 seconds left of speaking time, but nevertheless did not answer my question. It must mean that she has no answer other than that the environmental recommendations for vulnerable areas do not matter to this government. But that is also an answer. Let me ask you something else. SV has not set an end date for Norwegian oil industry, but we are concerned that we should not have a naive policy. We're going to have a policy that takes on the fact that the demand for fossil energy will go down, and that we're going to have a carbon-neutral society at a time when many of the oil licenses we're discussing here are still going to be in operation. This is the question of whether the government's policy is linked, or whether it takes too much risk – not just with the climate, but with money – because if we now use the Community's funds to subsidise exploration for oil and gas that we will not be able to extract in the future, it is also an economic loss project. The Environment Directorate recommended that the government carry out an economic risk analysis. Why has the government not followed that advice either?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e512	First, I do not agree that I did not answer the question. That is exactly what I did when I referred to the framework set out in the management plan. An important part of the discussion when considering the management plan was the environmental aspect: what kind of consideration should be given to which areas? One result of the examination of the management plan in Stortinget was also that the ice edge was moved south on a proposal from the government parties. So that we do not also listen to environmental advice, and that we do not take it into account when we are going to set the framework for the petroleum policy, I do not agree, and I believe that I responded. The representative then asks questions about climate risk. I fully agree that there is also something we need to be aware of in Norway, but in my view it is not meaningful to make such an assessment in a concession round. Concession rounds are about making areas available for exploration. Whether a finding is viable within the framework we expect in the future in terms of oil prices, climate regimes, etc. are decisions that need to be made in relation to actually trying to develop a finding. And then the companies are going to do exactly that. Companies take climate risk into account in their plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e519	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e524	I want to go back to the first question asked by the representative Lysbakken. The Council of State shows in its response that the Storting has opened these areas for oil drilling, but it is not that the Storting has said that it should be drilled everywhere, all the time, in all these areas. Even the bulk of the population has not been so irresponsible. There is a tradition that, in the context of any concession round to be published, the government will conduct a consultation round. In those consultation rounds, there is input from the government's own environmental professional bodies. The conclusion is that the government has exceeded the environmental authorities' warnings against oil drilling in all the vulnerable sea areas. The unanswered question is: How can the government allow such a totally irresponsible oil policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e531	The representative says that okay, the Storting has set the limits, but that doesn't mean we're going to add up to drilling everywhere all the time. No, that's not what we're doing either. This is a concession round where we have lighted out areas. Then it's up to the companies to find out if they find those areas attractive or not. That doesn't mean it'll be drilled anywhere in all the areas all the time. There are two very different things. I believe that we need to maintain the activity of what is Norway's most important and largest industry. We need there to be more. We need to develop good, robust findings in a future where we know that production on the base is also falling. Then, of course, the environmental aspect is important. That is why, when setting the framework in the management plan, there are good processes at the forefront, but it is up to politicians to balance the considerations. That's what the Storting has done when they set the framework for where we can have activity within acceptable frameworks, also for environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e539	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e544	I record that we still do not get an answer to the question of why we have exceeded all of the environmental warnings, but let me ask another question. The oil fields in the 25th concession round will not be operational for any year. They will be in operation by 2050 – a year when the world must have net zero in emissions if we are to avoid the worst consequences of the climate crisis. Does the Council of State think it's smart to send out the largest call ever, launch large-scale new oil and gas production, while at the same time making the world independent of fossil energy? Does the Council have any estimate of how much emissions 25th concession round will cause both here in Norway and globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e551	I want to repeat that I have answered the question. We have also taken into account environmental advice. We've moved the edge of the ice south – just so it's said. I know that I and the representative disagree on the future of a Norwegian oil and gas industry and whether there is room for it in the future we are going to go into, also in terms of greenhouse gas reductions. I wholeheartedly support the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The world must go in that direction. Just as all other countries have to do, so has Norway. That is why we are pursuing an offensive climate policy to achieve it. But even in that picture there's going to be a need for some oil and gas, maybe in other areas than where we mainly use it now, and it'll be less than today. But I find it a little pointless that Norway should not be able to attend and deliver the need that will be there, as long as the demand is there, when, after all, we do it with very low emissions and with strict environmental requirements. Because it's going to happen anyway. There's going to be some need. We have great ambitions to cut emissions on the Norwegian base. It also has the industry, and then I believe that as long as the demand is there, it is natural that we also participate and fill that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e558	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e563	In the spring, Stortinget was informed that the temporary changes in the oil tax would cost the state about 8 billion kroner. kr. In a new article written by Professor of the University of Oslo, Diderik Lund, on the other hand, it appears that this bill does not include the cost of projects that were unprofitable before the tax change was implemented, but that have now become profitable because of this change. Diderik Lund estimates that the cost could be several tens of billion dollars. I would like to ask the Council of State: what are the total estimates of the oil tax changes made in Stortinget before the summer? What will it cost us, and why has not this number that Diderik Lund comes with been presented to the Stortinget earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e570	The measures adopted by the Storting before the summer were a limited and temporary mechanism to stimulate activity in the middle of a pandemic that hit the entire Norwegian economy hard, and in particular the oil and gas industry, where everything stopped. We were in a situation where there was a risk that good, robust projects, which in part need a fairly low oil price to be profitable, would be pushed out in time or, in the worst case, not implemented. That's what Stortinget didn't think should happen. I agree with that, and I am glad that the Stortinge came to that agreement. Just how this will end in the end depends also on what projects companies are able to mature. Those are the ones who have to come up with the development plans, and then they have to be approved by the authorities, as normal. We are concerned that the projects that come as a result of this package are also robust, good projects. I believe they will. I also record that the packages have already given good effect through what we see of good projects that we would expect to come, which are now coming as planned. This is good for the workplace, and it is good for the value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e577	We move on to the next main question, which is asked by the representative Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e582	Then the Foreign Minister realized that she was going to take off the mask! The world over we see that the coronary apathy makes difficult situations even more difficult, and especially for the Palestinians. The UNRWA Relief Organisation assists 5.7 million Palestinian refugees. The United States was the largest donor in the past, but in 2018 the Trump administration cut off all support for the UN's work on Palestinian refugees, and now the organisation is in deep financial crisis. On Monday their manager announced that there is not enough money to pay wages in November, and it will go out of hospital, health care and school for Palestinian children. UNRWA has had its challenges. The previous leader had to leave. But now they've got a new boss, in March, with a very experienced Norwegian Vice President, Leni Stenseth. Norway has a special position and, in my view, also a special responsibility as head of the donor country group for Palestine. And Norway can actually do a lot. We can, for example: Take the initiative of a dedicated urgency conference, and we can increase Norwegian support in 2020 by advanceing what we are going to pay in 2021. What will the Foreign Minister do to support the UN's work on Palestinian refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e593	It's quite right, as Huitfeldt's representative says, that UNRWA is now in a very difficult economic situation. Unfortunately, there's nothing new; we've seen that for a long time. It's mainly due to three relationships, I'd say. One is that the situation of the Palestinian refugees, including those who reside. in Jordan and Lebanon, has been further exacerbated. We see that when the US aid was withdrawn, it was not fully replaced by others. We also see that it has been challenging to get the countries of the Gulf to come up with financial support, which they have previously indicated they will. I had a video conference with the new Commissioner-General, Lazzarini, on Monday, where we discussed these challenges, and it was important for me on the Norwegian side also to stress that we have already this year increased humanitarian aid and contributed to UNWRA, as well as that we have also given support to the Palestinians through other bodies and organisations, among others. related to the covid response. It has been important because there have been quite dramatic developments in several areas. This concerns, in particular, health issues, but also access to basic services, such as education. When I attended the state visit with the King and Queen in Jordan in March, we visited among others. health clinics and schools run by UNWRA in Jordan. They say that there is a much more difficult situation, and it also has to do with predictability. In addition, there is a well-known phenomenon that when basic services are stopped, there is also a more frequent risk of large refugee situations. And after the great explosion in Beirut, the situation of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon has also been further exacerbated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e602	This government is engaged in pursuing a balanced Middle East policy, but the Granavolden Declaration in 2019 was referred to by evening post commentator Harald Stanghelle as ‘a solid shoulder clapping to Benjamin Netanyahu’s uncompromising Israel’. Now the right has recently submitted proposals for a new batch program. There is nothing about balance here, but cooperation with Israel has been developed as a separate ambition. That is good in itself, but the contrast is quite clear when there is not a single word about support for the Palestinians. The only thing about the Palestinians is a listing of criteria for excluding Palestinian institutions from support. How is it possible to understand the new proposals of the Right as something other than a shift in the Right Middle East policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e607	A programme proposal, as the representative knows, is not a programme adopted or a policy adopted for a party. We maintain a very clear and firm line in the Middle East policy. It is balanced, and there we are also concerned about being able to play an active role in the discussion of resumption of peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians. I have had talks with both the Palestinian Prime Minister and the Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs for the past two weeks. We have been very active in helping the two to resume cooperation on both security and the Palestinians to accept the money that Israel is collecting on behalf of the Palestinians, because it has also helped to ensure that the Palestinians have had a very difficult economic situation. We feel that there is great recognition for Norway's role from both sides, also from the United States through alternating American administrations. It is important both to be able to contribute to a two-state solution and to be able to deal with the humanitarian situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e617	It opens for follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e622	When the Foreign Minister makes it clear that this is a proposal, I hear and read it so that she will help to change the Right Programme text. Everyone who has worked with the Middle East knows that word use, details and shades are very important. Cooperation with Israel has a lot to do, but there's not one word about illegal occupation, all the time we know that Israel's policy has changed a lot in recent years. I believe that the Right Party Program sends a very important signal when it is written as it does. If we compare what's in the program for the current ageing period with what's in the next program, I think it's very clear that the balance is going to be distorted. It sends a signal when the Right in the new party programme chooses to promote cooperation with exactly Israel, as the only country outside Europe and the United States. What is the basis, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the change in the formulation of the programme by the Right Programme Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e629	I might have addressed that question to the Right Programme Committee. But the reality is exactly the same: our Middle East policy is firm. It's balanced. I am also pleased that Huitfeldt's representative is highlighting the importance of cooperating with Israel. We have good cooperation in several areas, which is not about the Middle East conflict, but among other things. on health technologies, which are a growing area, and where Israel also has technologies that are important for both Norway and other countries. I am also very concerned that the balanced attitude we have in Middle East issues concerns criticism on both sides. We have criticized the Palestinians for refusing to accept the money that the Israelis have collected on their behalf because it has contributed to a further strengthening of the economic vulnerability of the Palestinians. Similarly, we have strongly criticised the Israelis for both the settlement policy and the recruitment plans. This line is recognizable and it is stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e636	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e641	It's strange to hear this poorening of the Palestinians. You'd think they were people who couldn't take care of themselves, and they needed support from all over the world to survive at all – and it actually looks like that too. The American President has a slightly different angle of incidence. In the four years he has tried to make this an agreement that includes several countries in the Middle East, so that the Palestinians too can join. Donald Trump has also said that he wants his own Palestinian state. Norway and Europe have been doing this for 30 years and have had no peace, but they have received very many peace prizes. The Abraham Accords, as it is called, has been committed to their own contribution. They have invested in jobs and economic growth, so you have the opportunity to manage yourself. This has joined many countries, and finally the Palestinians will do so, because the pressure from others will not be as great. The Foreign Minister has been absent in the debate. Why has the Foreign Minister been absent in the debate? And does the Foreign Minister agree that Donald Trump has done a good job in the Middle East?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e652	Norway and I have certainly not been absent in this debate. On the contrary, we have been out signalling that we are very positive about these agreements. It has also been the theme of my dialogue with the Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs. Foreign ministers have also been involved in the countries which have concluded normalisation agreements. And we see that there's a new dynamics in the region. It has many different reasons, and I think it's too early to say that this will now lead to the situation for the Palestinians changing dramatically. What we have been very clear about and have said is that while we want to welcome these normalisation agreements, and that it can contribute to a new dynamic and new cooperation in the region, the outstanding final status issues in the negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians need to be resolved through just negotiations. For these normalisation agreements, the question of borders does not change, they do not change the question of settlements or the capital question, to mention anything. It must continue to follow the lead of the negotiations, and Norway, as leader of the AHLC, has an important role to play with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e659	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e664	Thank you for the answer, but I've only seen one example from the Foreign Minister that it's good with all the peace initiatives in the Donald Trump administration and his initiative. You also use the old way, which has not led to peace, rather than bet on what actually works, and which will also bring the Palestinians with it gradually. I want to take a question with a different angle: Palestinian textbooks are full of hatred, hate communication against Israel, and they support in terrorist acts against Israel. On my written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said she would do something about it. She also said that two years ago and three years ago, but there's absolutely nothing happening. Support comes, and it is said that support will be given to something else in relation to Palestinian self-government, and not exactly to the school sector. It won't last. It is now going to be reviewed by something called the Georg Eckert Institute, and there are a number of errors in the conclusions. There are wrong books, and the hate just keeps going. Will the Foreign Minister now take this seriously and instead of listening to the Workers' Party, who will have even more transfers of money, actually tell the Palestinians that this is unacceptable, and that there will be no money if they do not remove the hatred of Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e673	Of course, we're taking a sharp distance from any hate expression or anti-semitist statement. But I have to say I react a little bit to the way the representative Tybring-Gjedde makes it, as if there were no things happening. Point one: We have withheld more than half of the aid that goes to education — not school books, but education — pending the results of the report. I think it is alarming if the representative Tybring-Gjedde is now able to produce results from the report, because it is still not finished. We're waiting for the results of it, and pending that, I've made a decision that we won't pay out any of the support this year, until the report is completed, and until we see the results of the report, in order to follow up those results. This is also a topic of countless meetings I have and our ambassadors and others have with Palestinian self-government authorities, and we work closely with other European countries at the same time. I think everyone has an interest in unlocking what is problematic in the Palestinian school curriculum, but I think at the same time we all have an interest in Palestinian children going to school, and also with it contributing to less radicalization and better living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e680	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e685	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Unfortunately, more and more parties appeared to be more and more concerned with symbols than with the results of climate policy. Unfortunately, after the Progress Party left the government, it seemed that this too is beginning to reproduce far into government circles. It can no longer be that it is more important to mean good than to do right. A good example of this is the debate on electrification of Norwegian pedestal. On a budget question from the Advance Party, the Ministry of Oil and Energy answers that estimates show that electrification of Norwegian pedestal costs between 1500 and 8,000 kroner per tonne of CO 2 emissions. For comparison, 1 tonne of carbon bond increases by afforestation of about one fifty-fold, according to Climate Change. $8,000 and $50 for the same result! What is the reason why the government so strongly prioritizes the provision for electrification of the socket to NOK 8 000 per tonne, when one will not use as much as a 50-fold of effective reforestation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e698	I and the representative Dale have now had the pleasure of having this debate for several rounds, so it's nice that we also have the opportunity to have this in Stortinget. And then it also gives me an opportunity to continue to believe the same thing that I have meant to now, that this is a right and good action – in some cases, not always. Then I guess I don't agree that it's necessarily the government's policy that has changed since the Progress Party left the government. It is probably the policy of the Progress Party that has changed, because in those years the Progress Party put in government and had the Minister of Oil and Energy, this was precisely something that they themselves highlighted as an important part of the transition that is also taking place on Norwegian soil. And the electrification on the Norwegian base is a direct result of the climate policy that we have been bringing together for several years just with the CO 2 tax as the main instrument together with the quota obligation. It triggers electrification. It's not something that's government driven by that we push it on the companies, they often want to do it themselves because they see that it pays off instead of paying expensive taxes either on CO 2 or on the quota. Then I also register that the Progress Party was present at the latest this spring, just before the summer, in the context of the oil tax package, and voted through a proposal that the industry should reduce its emissions on the base by 50 pst. They themselves had a plan and an ambition of 40 pst. The progress party helped to strengthen it to 50 pst. I'm not so sure that betting on forest is going to solve the challenges on Norwegian base. We're going to have to take action there as well, and the industry wants it itself. The industry will also point out that this actually contributes to strengthening their competitiveness, knowing that there will be a stricter climate regime in the years to come. Then this will be something we can save money on, which will also make it more profitable to produce oil and gas here than elsewhere. You don't have to do it at all times. Just as in the report that Dale also refers to, which was actually ordered by a Progress Party State Council when they were in government, Power from land, we see that there is a great deal of tension in what the cost of implementing such a measure is. There are examples of measures of electrification where costs have been down to DKK 800 per tonne. 1500 kroner is significantly more expensive, but nevertheless, it may be of all the different measures we need to take to bring down emissions, not always among the most expensive either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e715	It is not surprising that parts of the oil and gas industry are willing to electrify the socket, because it is not the ones who have to pay the bill. It is the mainland industry that gets the bill through increased electricity prices. But what is the question, which the Council of State does not answer, is the fact that this is not an effective climate action. Then I will do something as rare as referencing from the Oil and Energy Department itself to answer written questions. They say the consequences of electrification of the socket are: ‘The gas released by shore-side power must be expected to be sold on the gas market, while the increased use of electricity from the grid will affect the power market. Operators in those markets are largely covered by the allowance system. The impact on global emissions of these second order effects of increased use of power from land is uncertain.’ In other words, there is no demonstrable effect that this is an effective climate action. The government in particular, which is busy cutting emissions, should have a faith that was busy with results, not just symbols. Then the question is, why does the government insist on climate action that does not work, which increases the price of power for industry, and which in addition costs the shirt?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e729	It is true that it is demanding to refer to concrete emission reductions from one concrete electrification of one specific Norwegian field, precisely because the power system in Europe is complicated and because the quota system is so large. But I don't agree with that story here about the quota system. Yeah, that's the way it used to be, but now it's no longer like that. EU climate policy is also being tightened up. A deletion mechanism is now in place in this system to effectively reduce emissions. So now we're no longer just moving emissions from here to somewhere else, because there's going to be all the less allowances, and it's tightening in to achieve the goal of a 43 pst reduction. by 2030. It's going to have an effect. In addition, yes, the gas released here will be burned in Europe, but will burn more effectively than it will burn in our fields through the gas turbines that stand there. I agree that it's a complicated calculation, but that's why I think it confuses the debate a little bit. I am no doubt a second that this is an important climate action for the future as well, provided that our climate policy and the main instruments, the CO 2 tax and the quota obligation actually trigger the investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e741	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jon Georg Dale.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e746	Governments may disagree with the reasoning behind this, but that's not my reasoning, it's the oil and energy department's reasoning. So then the ministry has actively misinformed questions from the Stortinget, or the government is now trying to talk about the fact that these are the stops that come to light when the Stortinget is asked to document the impact of the policy. But then the question, as a natural follow-up of it, is what this will mean for the mainland industry, because it will give rise to electricity prices. However, shore electrification will require an infinite amount of power, and consequently it will require large-scale expansion of wind power. It's worth noting for a batch that's for electrification of the base, but against the expansion of wind power. How many new wind turbines on land will we have to build to electrify Norwegian base, and what is the realism of getting this out now when the government has been with the Progress Party to give room for local veto in the wind power message?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e755	That I disagreed with the representation of the fact that Dale came along, I still believe I stand. I mean, there's a story told that at least it's very pointed. For example, claiming that even over automatically it will only lead to much higher power prices is not correct. NVE has also looked at this. NVE has looked at what development will be like if you get to the grandest electrification we know we're going to need also to achieve our climate goals. The NVE says that it is possible to achieve without prolonged periods of high electricity prices or shortages of electricity. But of course this is a development we must closely follow. I am as concerned as the representative Dale is of the mainland industry and that the framework conditions they have must be good. Of course, one of the most important is access in a reasonable and predictable way. It is a competitive advantage that we need to preserve for the future, so we need to facilitate to also produce more renewable energy in Norway. That's why I think the agreement on wind power communication was so important, because at least it takes us on that track. But not only does wind power provide it, so we also come up with proposals to build more hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e762	Jon Georg Dale – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e767	This was an answer to everything other than the question. The question was, How much wind do we have to build up, and what is the expected impact on the electricity price? That's the whole problem, because we've already discovered that this is not an effective climate action. This means that there must be other reasons for doing so, and then the question is, What is the consequence for our mainland industry, which is now facing uncertain times, for several different reasons? The Council of State must then be able to answer the simple and transparent question: how much wind power must be built up to electrify Norwegian Socket, and what will such expansion and electrification from Norwegian Socket Land do with the Norwegian Power Price?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e774	It is not that I do not answer the question, it is that the representative does not want to relate to the answers, and it is perhaps because it is not as black and white as the representative tries to present it as. Like, for example, Just how many wind turbines you have to build to electrify the socket: it will depend, of course, on how much more we get out of our hydropower, how many others want to connect and establish new industries on the mainland it will come. Of course, we don't have exact numbers on this. I don't know if the representative Dale has a crystal ball that tells the exact answer to this, but I don't. These NVE reports, which I pointed out instead, clearly say that it is possible to obtain the large electrification we want, with the power demand it will provide, without giving large, long periods of very high power prices, for example. There is a concrete answer to the question the representative asked about power prices. Again, here we have to think about the overall framework conditions. We need to make sure that it is attractive to expand new renewable energy in Norway within water and also within wind, with the new regime, so that it is done in a more sustainable and acceptable way for people and neighbours and all who are affected, and that we also facilitate the use of that power for something sensible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e783	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e797	There are no changes to the configured question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e805	«The Sorenprinter in Upper and Lower Romerike writes in his answer: «Our experience of joint management for ten months is that this is not a satisfactory solution [[...]] Why, then, will the government give him responsibility for three courts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e812	I fully agree that joint management is not a proper solution. As I have pointed out several times, the instruments of the Court's law are not sufficient to increase efficiency, reduce vulnerability or increase quality. That's exactly why the government has proposed extending the legal systems. Let me make it very clear: Joint management does not change the legal structure, and the courts that are subject to the arrangement are independent entities. There is, of course, something quite different about managing two or three independent organisations than one joint organisation located more than one. For the sake of order, I would like to add that the two jurisdictions of Rome's wishes are aggregation, even if it involves several courts. Let me quote from the hearing response: ‘Our starting point is that the court structure of today is outdated and over-mature for changes. We are positive that larger units are established. This should be done by bringing together and co-location courts. Maintaining all courts in the country appears to be not cost-effective. We agree with the Riksrevision's conclusion that today's structure, with many small legal circles, leads to structural inefficiency. We therefore support the Commission's proposal, but at the same time we see that in some jurisdictions with large distances and low population density there may be a need to maintain more offices. Subsidy, we support the Government’s proposal, which is considered to be better than today’s structure.’ The request for aggregation is retained in letters to the Judicial Committee dated 11 September of this year, where the Court of First Instance indicates that it: ‘in our two courts there is a broad consensus that it is desirable to merge the courts. [[...]] It appears counterproductive to stop a merger which is sought by both management and trustees in the two courts, and which has been planned». I therefore believe that the government's proposal, which does not fully comply with the sorenic, will provide a better basis for joint management of more courts than the current situation with joint management of independent entities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e833	I thank you for your answer. I have been attending a meeting with the soren-taker at Eidsvoll, a meeting which was attended by both the trust-elected and the rapporteur in Eidsvoll. There, the sorenic tried to present the same description of reality as the Council of State now refers to. Thus, there was a great deal of concern expressed by employees as a result of a merger into a common right of way. A clear concern was also expressed by the community, represented by the rapporteur, and the rapporteur would have been asked to be taken to the income of a merger process. What is specific about my question is that, on the part of employees, you fear culture when a leader cannot be present at all the different places at the same time. Why would you suggest merging instead of making sure that you have independent courts where you can have a filthwriter in each place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e846	I believe I have answered that question. Managing autonomous units is quite different from managing an organisation with several offices. It is quite common both in public life in Norway, in organisational life, in academia and in business. That's two completely different things. The representative refers from a meeting I have not attended. I hope the representative understands that I cannot answer that. I have quoted from the hearing response, and that is what was sent to the Judicial Committee regarding the hearing of the Court of Justice. I am very aware that the rapporteur does not share that view. The rapporteur does not work in the Court of Justice, nor is he responsible for the execution of legal proceedings or for bringing down the queues in the Court of Justice. But we have, on the basis of, among other things, this case said in the case of local consensus, that you should also listen to local authorities. This is also local policy. It's district policy. So even if in this case the rapporteur does not accept the answer, we should also listen to the rapporteurs in terms of mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e855	This will be a great canvas, extending across several counties – from Finnskogen to the borders of Oslo. In the hearing response, it is just described: Employees feel that the sorenner is less present than before. It's a situation where you have common direction for Upper and Lower Roman Empire. Now you also have to include Glamdal thing right, which has a place in Kongswinger, which is even further away. In addition, it is said that there will be negative both in the daily and for the culture of the court. The sorenist experiences that he does not have enough time in one place or the other. That will be the same challenge in the future. It'll get bigger with three things. Why do you not want to go in the opposite direction and make sure that you still have well-functioning tracts in each place, which can be close to the employees and not least to the area to be served?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e860	We want to do something with the findings of the National Audit Office. We want to bring down the queues. We want equal treatment. We want to increase legal certainty for all citizens of this country. So we have courts and courts today that are very vulnerable. We also have courts that don't exploit their capacity, actually not more than 50 pst. We want to do something about that. We accept that the Centre Party has complete refusal of any change. Well, it's got to be. What we argue for are fewer leaders, more judges. That'll be good for everyone in the new court. So there will be a shorter procedure, a better job for judges, and then there will be one joint leader. There is a great difference between managing autonomous entities and independent organisations and managing a common organisation with all the opportunities it provides within the wider legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e870	‘In the Lister region, the Lighthouse Lister Health has initiated lowthreshold treatment for addicts. It is good to get treatment services closer to where people live. Previous specialised treatment is increasingly transferred to the municipalities, without the reimbursement schemes taking this into account. Patients receiving similar treatment in hospitals receive reimbursement of travel expenses, but not those participating in municipal treatment. Will the government do anything to adapt the arrangements to the treatment and not where the treatment is given?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e877	The Patient and User Rights Act and the Patient Travel Regulation regulate the right to cover patient travel. It follows from the statutory provision that the patient has the right to cover the necessary expenses when he or she has to travel in the context of a health service covered by the Special Health Service Act and covered by an undertaking under the Health Business Act. The same applies to health services covered by the provisions of the Law on Social Security for Health. As a result of the interaction reform, provision is also being made for patients under municipal authority. Tasks are transferred from the specialist health service to the municipalities. An example of this is municipal day-care services for patients and users in need of immediate assistance as mentioned in the Health and Welfare Act. Municipal dialysis offers are another example. When such offers are made in the specialist health service, travel expenses are covered in accordance with the health transport regulation. Where the same offer is made under municipal law, travel expenses shall be reimbursed only if the services referred to in Chapter 5 of the Code are provided. In order to prevent patients from losing their right to travel expenses in such cases, the Ministry is empowered to provide that the right to cover necessary expenditure may also apply to travel to and from healthcare covered by the Health and Welfare Act. The Ministry has granted patients the right to cover travel expenses for daily community services and municipal dialysis services in the Patient Travel Ordinance. We do not now have any concrete plans to extend patient travel legislation to all healthcare services provided by the municipality, which are not funded by public funds. The important thing for me is that patients do not lose their rights when tasks are transferred from the specialist health service to the municipalities. The statutory home that is in the law today helps us to avoid this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e890	Thanks for the answer. The lighthouse of mental health and intoxication in Lister provides treatment to drug addicts closer to where they live, and they have competent and competent staff. That's good. But many drug addicts have more illnesses, and addiction affects relatives, children, parents, and boyfriends. The right hand thing makes it more expensive for these to be sick. Self-esteem is increasing. In a time of pandemic, the government requires one million Norwegians to pay over 700 kroner more in cash. The working party believes it is deeply unfair. We don't want to limit the amount of gift cards 1, and we want to combine the two free cards, which will reduce the cost of treatment and rehabilitation for people with chronic diseases who use both cards. Why does the government give priority to making it more expensive to be sick for so many?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e897	Neither does the government. It is, of course, the government's initiative and proposal that the two commercial cards should now be merged, so that those in Norway with the highest percentages are significantly reduced in proportion. I am pleased that the Labour Party has come to support the government's proposals on this point. In the case of persons such as: In addition, the government of the State budget for 2021 has committed some 60 million. kr to the municipalities in order for them to be able to establish similar arrangements as they have in the municipality of Oslo, namely that the municipality buys free tickets to the inhabitants at the beginning of the year, and thus one will have free healthcare throughout the year. The draft budget envisages that all the municipalities of the country can act as the municipality of Oslo, and that will then be compensated in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e904	It is clear that the government's policy is transferring expenses to patients. We see that the patient group we're talking about here often has a marginal relationship with the world of work. We have been cut off the commuting allowance, the holiday supplement has been removed from the daily allowance, and the children's supplement has been removed. Some people have families, and they feel that the spectacle support is being cut, that the nursery prices are being increased, while the permanent crisis in the districts gets stuck, and the centralization and commercialisation take resource people out of the districts. It's an unsocial and unfair policy, and it hits some of those who are being treated on the Four Towers of Mental Health and Drug Abuse in Lists. We strengthen, among other things: the permanent medical scheme and the local economy. Does the Council of State see that right-wing policy makes it more difficult to be a patient in the districts and that the increased transport costs that patients receive in this context may be what makes it impossible to accept treatment locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e911	No, the right-hand government has not proposed any changes involving increased transport costs for patients. The fact that several offers are transferred to the municipal health service is part of the interaction reform, as the Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen suggested. So it's a development for which the Workers' Party took the initiative and was the proponents. On the contrary, the patient group that needs this offer has been significantly strengthened as a result of the fact that it is the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Progress Party that now governs Norway, as opposed to the Workers' Party. We have had a separate escalation plan for the offer to drug addicts in Norway where significant amounts have been transferred to the municipalities to expand this type of offer. We have built up the specialised treatment facility, which means that the waiting times are now shorter for this patient group than they have ever been. In particular, we have introduced free treatment choices, against the votes of the Labour Party, so that is among other things. drug treatment institutions in Agder that would have been closed had the Labour Party policies been pursued in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e922	‘New Oslo University Hospital involves the largest reconversion of the hospital structure in Norway. In the state budget for 2021, the government allocates 102 million. kronor of the agreed loan framework for the project. Can the Council of State ensure that Health South-East and Oslo University Hospitals will have the financial capacity to withstand the large investment of New Oslo University Hospitals, is it appropriate to grant funds for the most expensive investment in mainland Norway without a regulatory plan, and does the Council of State consider that the closure of Ullevål hospitals and the sale of land will provide better health services to the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e929	The answer to the last question is definitely yes — with exclamation marks. The majority adopted an upper loan framework for the expansion of Aker Hospital and the Rikshospitalet in the treatment of the State budget for 2020. The decision was based on external quality assurance phase studies. The development of Aker and the Rikshospitale is part of the new Oslo University Hospital, which also includes new clinic building at the Radium Hospital and new regional security department. Health South-East has saved money and has a solid economy. Like all hospital projects, the loan framework for new Aker hospitals and the new Rikshospitalet was assessed and adopted after completion of the concept phase. This means that the final phase of the plan — the pilot project — remains. The loan granted for 2021 will co-finance the cost of the project. I would like to remind you that the appropriation in 2021 is loans to be repaid by Health South-East. In new Oslo University Hospital, the Rikshospitale will become a highly specialised hospital with a trauma and emergency environment, becoming the country's most important emergency hospital. The collection of specialised functions at the Rikshospitalet will provide one door for the patient groups concerned and provide better use of valuable competences and valuable equipment. New Aker Hospital will become a major emergency hospital and will in the long term include: take over the responsibility of the inhabitants of the three districts of Oslo who are being offered today at Akershu University Hospital. The expansion of Aker and the new Rikshospitalet is undoubtedly Norway's largest hospital project measured in dollars. The project is planned with a structure and solutions to ensure that all citizens of Oslo have a specialist health service offer, including those districts that are currently offered at Akershu University Hospital. In addition, a collection of specialised regional and national services is ensured, which will facilitate better use of health professionals in the capital. This is important, given that there is a great need for this type of competence also in other parts of the region and not least in the country. New hospital buildings are needed in Oslo. There's no doubt about it. A significant part of the buildings in Ullevål hospitals are old and inappropriate. They are in very poor technical condition and not suitable for modern hospital activities. The hospital buildings now planned at the Rikshospitalet and Aker will be replaced by the buildings on Ullevål. The plans will provide modern hospital buildings and ensure increased capacity in Oslo, providing the population with better health services. This is high time and very important in order to ensure that the population of Oslo has a health service in line with the rest of the country, as a result of this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e942	If that's so good, it's strange that seven out of ten Oslo people are against laying down Ullevål hospitals. There is a majority against the closure of all parties' electoral groups. Recently, four professionals presented a report on the health plans in Oslo. It concludes that the planned new OUS is not economically sustainable, and that the continued development of Ullevål Hospital will be 20 billion. it is more reasonable than to lay down and build on Gaustad. It will provide a faster and better solution for patients. It will allow Aker to become a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen and ensure a better economy in Health South-East. The economic risk of new OUS is significantly higher today than that described in the 2020 budget. Health South-East has therefore drawn up its proposal for a regulation plan for new OUS at the Rikshospitalet because plan and construction in Oslo could not recommend the proposal. Now the project is undergoing full reworking. Does Höie think that there is at all economic sustainability in, and not least the area to expand what's going to be new OYS?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e951	The answer to that is also yes. The alternative for which the representative stands is more expensive, less expensive and will take much longer. This will mean that the population who has voted in favour of the Stortingen population is at risk of standing without absolutely necessary health services, at the level of what is in the rest of the country, if the representative had been able to make an impact on his position on this matter. It is serious, for this matter has taken too long already. It is time-critical that good progress is now being made in this matter. The investigation to which the representative referred is incorrect. There are good investigations that show that such an alternative will cost more money and take longer, thus weakening and not being sustainable for Health South-East. It is the opposite conclusions that are correct. Now development is working very well, looking at the possibility of transferring part of what is planned at the new Rikshospital to the new life sciences building. It will also ensure good progress for the establishment of the life sciences building, which is not least important for the University of Oslo, the development of the health industry in this region and the development of Oslo as a city.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e960	It is documented in the report last week that the so-called Ullevål lighting from last year was based on both reconstructed and misleading premises. It will be cheaper and better to build Ullevål than to lay down the hospital. In addition, the current pandemic illustrates that infectious diseases should be an important element in the planning of future hospitals. No assessment has been made in the ROS analysis of new OUS on which building solutions are most suitable for pandemics. Ullevål hospital was originally built as an epidemic hospital. A sale of the land will be an irreversible act, which will deprive the OYS and the Oslo population of a land reserve of great strategic importance for future development, both due to infectious and task growth. Does the Council of State see that building on the largest hospital complex in northern Europe – i.e. on Ullevål – makes it easier to get lower risk of infection than to build compact, high-block, on a narrow plot in the Rikshospitale?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e969	No, on the contrary. Building on the Rikshospitalet will give us modern building. We also need to use new knowledge and technology to get a good way of dealing with a pandemic. Fortunately, much has happened in this area since the time of Christian IV. Although the Ullevål buildings were modern at the time in view of a pandemic, they are not necessarily so today. The conditions relating to the protection of infectious diseases will also be adequately addressed in the new development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e977	«Hallingdal infirmary on Ål provides decentralised specialist health services to locals and tourists in Hallingdal. In emergency situations, a good air ambulance base with access to fuel facilities and landing sites in the region is dependent. How will the Council of State ensure good preparedness for Hallingdal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e984	First, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to decorate Hallingdal's nurse. I know it very well because I have a family that belongs to Ål, and parents-in-law who have received great offers and care there. I just want to complete them. Hallingdal Sickestugu offers several decentralised specialist health services to the local population, but also to tourists in Hallingdal. They have somatic bedlinen, outpatient clinic, dialysis department, heart school, and learning and mastering centers. In addition, visual diagnostics, laboratory services and psychiatry are also located there. Hallingdal thus has a very important emergency role in Hallingdal. West Viken has stationed a car ambulance there, and the air ambulance service has a helicopter base in connection with the operation. I have seen that the representative of Gharahkhani in the media is concerned with the new rescue helicopters and landing possibilities in the Drammen. That is not what the representative has directly addressed today, but it is a theme that has engaged the population in Hallingdal, and the rescue helicopters are of course part of Norway’s total preparedness. Today's rescue helicopters, Sea King, land at most of today's emergency hospitals. However, only a small number have adapted landing sites. In many cases parking, sports and nearby airports are used. The new rescue helicopters, on which the representative is involved, shall be able to land in the same hospitals, possibly elsewhere in agreement with the health establishments. However, there is ongoing work here and the need for adaptation has not yet been finally concluded. The new rescue helicopters, the SAR Queen, will have far better reach. They can fly directly to the target instead of flying around the coast. It's important. Health South-East has experienced that the helicopter base on Ål is in continuous standby throughout the year. A fuel installation related to the landing site is in place and the air ambulance doctor at Ål may, if necessary, move out by car to Hallingdal Sick Bay. Vestre Viken believes that the established setup of Ål provides a good preparedness for Hallingdal. Most of the emergency air ambulance services are handled by the normal helicopter, similar to that on the base of the Eel. Thus, there will be no change in their ability to operate and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1001	A short time ago, I asked the Minister of Emergency Response the question about the new rescue helicopters can land attached to the new hospital in Drammen and at Ringerijk Hospital, and the answer was surprisingly no. So we're going to build Norway's most modern hospital in the Drammen, which is going to provide health and preparedness for the people from Hallingdal to Bærum, without the new rescue helicopters landing there. In an emergency, we all know that the seconds count. For the inhabitants of the districts, this is bad news, for one thing that has not received attention, is that in the Western Week health region there is a lack of a fuel plant for helicopters at Ringerijk and Drammen. When you drop a new landing site, you also drop building a fuel plant. It means less capacity for helicopters taking off from Ål, because they don't have the ability to fill fuel in the Drammen. Does the district minister think this is good preparedness for the inhabitants of Buskerud and Hallingdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1008	Now I have come here to answer for the situation on Hallingdal Sick Bay, so I choose to answer it. I think it makes sense for the representative to ask the Minister of Emergency Response or the Minister of Health about Drammen Hospital and Ringerijk Hospital. As Minister of District and Digitalisation, I do not know the details there. But what I know is that in the case of Hallingdal Sick Bay on Ål, today's helicopter can land as normal. Even when there are rescue operations, they can take advantage of Sea King, they can land at Hallingdal Sick Bay on Eel. I understand that there are some challenges that you might have to amplify some windows and some things like that, but I think there are things that can be solved. However, the preparedness of the Hallingdal population is well maintained with the air ambulance capacity and the landing conditions that are there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1013	Let me explain, so that the district minister understands the seriousness. There's an accident. The patient is transported with the state air ambulance from Hallingdal Sickestugu at Ål to Drammen Hospital. It is not possible to fill the tank of the helicopter at Norway's most modern hospital to be built in the Drammen. On the return trip, you'll be notified of a major car accident in Flanders. The helicopter must then inform us that due to low fuel, you must first return to Hallingdal Sick Bay on Ål before you can go on a new assignment. Does the district minister think this is a good response for the people of Hallingdal? I mean no. They deserve better. And so do the employees. Will the district minister – for this is district policy – take an initiative with me to ensure that the new Drammen hospital has a landing place for the new rescue helicopters and a fuel facility that ensures good preparedness for the districts of Buskerud?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1020	I think the vast majority of politicians are concerned with preparedness and people's health and security, including in the districts of course, not least in Hallingdal. I am asked to answer for the situation at Hallingdal Sick Bay. The helicopter base at Ål in Hallingdal is used only by standard ambulance helicopters. They will not be affected by the acquisition. The question Gharakhani is now asking is about the new rescue helicopters and the possibility for them to land at the other hospitals. It is a question that the representative of Gharahkhani should ask the Minister for Emergency Response or the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1030	My question to the Council of State is as follows: ‘28. October 2019, Minister of Culture Trine Skei Grande and State Secretary Frida Blomgren held a recording meeting on a media policy toolbox with a number of representatives of the media industry. The need for such a toolbox was evident in the treatment of media messaging in the same year. What is the government's status on this toolbox?»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1039	Maintaining and further developing a diversity of high-quality media is an overall media policy objective, because the media diversity is a prerequisite for freedom of expression and a well-functioning democracy. In the process of securing and developing the Norwegian media diversity, the Media Authority is central. Over a period of time, supervision has worked on a new, ambitious project, the Media Diversity Accounts. The aim is to monitor and regularly update the status of three important media diversity dimensions, namely sender, content and use. The first interim report was presented in February 2020. The next one comes as planned in December of this year, taking into account the diversity of use, while the third part of the diversity of content is expected in 2021. Media diversity accounting is an important tool in adapting media policy objectives and instruments to current challenges. The aim is that we should be able to catch up early on whether there is a need to put in place concrete measures. Two of the main findings of the first interim report was that Norway has a variety of editorial media, and we have a few geographical blind zones, everywhere, with a lack of coverage of local and regional conditions that affect citizens. The question of the need for adaptation of existing media support schemes, possibly establishing new schemes, is a matter of course to be addressed in the context of the review of media support. The government has announced in the Media Support Communication that it will carry out such a review every year after the roll-out, as proposed by the new Media Support Act. Such a review will be submitted for the first time in 2022, followed by a similar review every four years. Here we will see media policy objectives and instruments in the light of developments in the media sector and propose guidance signals for media support for the next four years. In this work, of course, we will also gain views from the media. It must also be said that it is, of course, challenging to create tools without knowing exactly what tasks await. The Covid-19 situation illustrates that. Both media and a wide range of other businesses have lost their turnover, and in other industries many have had to shut down. The government has made extensive efforts to make compensation schemes for different industries, including the media industry, and for periods my department and the Media Authority have had almost daily contact with individual media and media organisations. In our further work, we want to ensure that we have a diversity of high-quality media. In order to ensure that media pluralism in Norway can develop further, the Ministry will assess the proposals made by the media organisations for action in the light of the developments identified, inter alia. through the media diversity accounts, other media market reporting and other sector inputs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1056	Thanks for the answer. A media diversity account will probably be useful, but there was an investigation of various tools in the toolbox that the Committee wanted. I find it regrettable that this investigation has not started, because it will always be useful. It would have been quite in place when we notice that the media are challenged, then also our democracy, as under the covid-19 pandemic. In particular, our local ways are now affected. Their finances depend entirely on advertisements for events, which have now been cancelled. Not least for the smallest local modes. They have major problems, because they have fallen far beyond the corona support of the media as well. If the Council of State agrees with me that since many fall outside the corona aid, would it help with other measures, which were more general, and which would have captured them, such as the temporary deduction of the employer’s fee for editorial posts or the new measure in Canada, tax exemption for the share of editorial costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1063	We created a media package to meet the challenges the media industry faced as a result of covid-19. It had a liberality of a total of 300 million. kr. The device on it also made it easier to get in than the packages for the rest of the business. I think for the rest of my business, it was about having 30 pst. sales cases in order to participate in the corona packages, but because it was so important for the government to take care of the media diversity and to ensure that democracy and freedom of expression could be guaranteed, we put a device on the media package that made them need a market drop of only 15 p.m. to participate in those funds. I believe it was a proper package to make. And the funds in the package have been paid out upon request in that period. With regard to the issue of tax deductions on editorial costs, there is one of the proposals in the toolbox. If I get a follow-up question about it, I'll go deeper into that subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1070	Thank you for your answer. Because it's pretty precarious in the media after a new shutdown, we get to dig in that tool a little bit later, because right now the message from the media industry is that it's not just the smallest locals that bleed because of covid-19 and shutdown. It is now also insensitive for local viewers with up to 15 000 in circulation. There is a need for immediate support for these of around 50 million. kr. It is an expectation from both the desperate editors and us in the Central Party that this is quickly taken seriously by the Minister. Although he boasts of the package that came to the media, there are still 208 million. kr left by it, because the device was so rigid. Since there is money there, I hope that the Council of State agrees with me, and that he – now that society has shut down again, and there is a great deal of ad failure – is ready to assist the local media that has the worst of it now, with immediate financial support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1075	I do not agree that it was a rigid arrangement. On the contrary, I would say that it was a liberal scheme, and that it was a lower threshold to come under that scheme than the one that applied to the rest of business. The rest of the business had to document a loss of 30 pst. of the turnover, while the media had to document a decrease in turnover of only 15 pst. to be able to participate in that package. I would thus say that it was not a rigid arrangement. We're very busy spending this money in a reasonable way. We need a fact-based approach to the different policy packages we make, not based on rumors and myths. The annual assessment of the media economy by the Media Regulatory Authority will be made on Friday. We should wait for what it says, but at the moment I want to show that this government has done an incredible amount for the breadth of the media – everything from VAT exemptions for digital media to subsidies for local audio and video media, increased production subsidies for the media and re-allocation of 30 million. kr for small local viewers. This government has done a lot for the media, and so will we.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1086	‘The reason for the establishment of the Nordland National Park Centre in 2005 was that the Centre should base its operations on a double basic grant because the Environment Directorate’s authorisation applied to two national parks: Saltfjellet-Svartisen and Junkerdal. As of 2016, the Centre has received only one grant, which means that writing applications has become a disproportionate proportion of its tasks in order to fulfil the role of nature information centre. There will be more bureaucracy and less natural information. Can't this be a wild policy?'
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1093	I would like to begin by referring to the answer given by Mr Ola Elvestuen, Minister for Climate and Environment, to two similar questions from March 2018 from the same representative of the big business and state that the situation is probably the same now as it was then. Visitors to nature shall disseminate knowledge of high quality on national parks, wild reindeer, wetlands, predatory game, bird and wild breeds to the local population and its visitors. Children and young people are particularly priority. The Centre has received funding from the Ministry of Climate and Environment. As reported in March 2018, the double base rate scheme was completely changed back in 2013. The background was that there was little connection between which center got double the base rate, and how expensive it was to operate the current center – or how many guests they had. This was also pointed out by the Committee on Energy and the Environment in the budgetary position for 2013. A total of 1.6 million in 2013. kr for the relevant centre, inflation-adjusted it would have amounted to 1,86 million. kr in year. In 2020, the Nordland National Park Centre did not receive 1,86 million. SEK, but SEK 1,91 million. kr. This means that they now receive more solid support than they received in 2013 – and today they would receive double support. By comparison, most other national parks that do not receive specific natural guides receive fixed funds in the form of a base grant of 1.06 million. kr. The base rate is increasing beyond inflation adjustment compared to 2013 to strengthen the centre as a knowledge intermediary. In addition, individual centres may search for project media, such as: to renew exhibitions. This year, the Nordland National Park Centre received project funding of about EUR 10 million. One, eighty-five million. kr. Overall, in the last three years, Nordland National Park Centre has received more than 10 million. the various contributions from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the budget, including: Big contribution to a new exhibition. I think that Nordland National Park Centre has good economic conditions. Project tools are designed to meet non-fixed needs. I think it's important to have the opportunity to also give such support even if it means that one has to write a good application, for example. because there are a few years between each time an exhibition should be renewed at a centre. Project tools require an application – absolutely – but there is a wild policy. I believe that the representative should actually agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1110	In order to clarify the situation, I can tell you that in the Nordic Visiting Centre case, 36 applications had to be processed by the Environment Directorate to maintain the activity to which the Minister refers and for which the Centre is rigged. They have lost one of the basic subsidies for two national parks, and these are large national parks. The Centre also has information responsibility for the national parks Làhko, Sjunkhatten and Rago as the national park managers for the five national parks are established at this administrative hub. Everything facilitates large synergies for nature information. Doesn't the Council of State see that more of the funds have to go where the values are, especially in view of the new strategy Welcome in! ?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1117	First of all, the original question and the follow-up question is based on a premise that because you don't get a double base, you get a smaller amount of money. It just doesn't match. As I did well in my answer, it is so that if one had continued with double base rates and only restated what this center got back in 2013 and until today, they would get less money than they actually get. They get more, they don't get smaller. And that's good reasons for that. That's because this National Park Center, like other centers, is doing a very important job. Nor is it unique for the Nordland National Park Centre that they have a responsibility for several national parks. There are several of the centers that have, and I think that's wise, because we have a lot of national parks, and that's really great. Several of them were created under this government, and I hope that we will create more protection areas in the future. It's usually not a hope shared by the Center Party, it's my experience, but you can turn it around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1124	Does the Council not see that more bureaucracy and considerable uncertainty from year to year with application letters make it uncertain for employees and that it is easier to lose people with good skills? I want to say a little bit about what this really is. Central Nordland National Park Board manages the equivalent of 100 pst. of the area in Eastfold and Akershus and 200 pst. by Westfold, and that's 12 pst. of the area of the Nordic region, i.e. 4,642 km 2. They have a permanent position as a nature guide. They should have three. National park managers have 500 hours of overtime but have nevertheless had to postpone important work on visiting strategy and management plans. Is this center punishable for being a large node, seen in relation to the funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1132	No, I'd rather say the opposite, because, as I said, Nordland's National Park Centre gets 1.91 million. kr in base cost, while most other national parking centres receive less than that, i.e. 1.06 million. kr in the base bill. So this center is being severely punished, it's hard to see. The situation is rather the opposite. So I share the representative's commitment that we should not have too much unnecessary bureaucracy. I totally agree with that, even when it applies to the operation of the National Park Centres. But at the same time, I think that when you've seen funds that are supposed to be extra funds for these centers, and that they can search for as needed, for example. when creating a new and important exhibition, which one does not do every year, one must be able to demonstrate the need for competition with other centres. It may be considered bureaucratic, but the feedback we get from the National Park Centres is that they live well with today's arrangements. They write good applications and also receive a lot of funding, and so does the National Park Centre Nordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1139	That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-25.ana.ud200e1153	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
