ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e62	For the sake of infection, the President would like the public gallery to be closed even during today's meeting. - It's a note. The representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are filed: by the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative Mona Fagerås from 24 November onwards and until further notice by the Radtts Storingsgruppe, on behalf of the representative of the Bears Moxnes, on Tuesday 24 November by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on welfare leave for the representative of Une Bastholm on Tuesday 24 November The President will propose that these applications be dealt with immediately and be accepted. - It's a note. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Nordland: Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold For Oslo: Seher Aydar and Kristoffer Robin Haug
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e114	Marius Meisfjord Jøsevold, Seher Aydar and Kristoffer Robin Haug are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e121	The President recommends that a seat president be elected for the meeting in Stortinget this week. - It's a note. The President proposes Svein Roald Hansen. – Other suggestions are not in the lead, and the president considers Svein Roald Hansen to be the co-conspirator of the election as the seat president of the meeting in Stortinget this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e134	Case No. 1 to 5 processed as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e196	Case No. 1–5 is the second time the law and liability are handled by law decisions 16–20. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e212	The President will organise the debate as follows: it will be given up to 5 minutes speaking time per party group. In addition, lines are not allowed, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e219	In this vote, the Presidency of the European Parliament promotes proposals for amendments to guidelines for the use of grants to the party groups, which were last established on 20 June 2013. The Presidency decided in February 2019 to carry out an overall review of the grant granted to DGs and independent representatives of the Stortinget and to assess the need for changes to the scheme. Some of the background to the review was also a public debate with critical searchlights in front. A thorough review has been carried out. The overall review has assessed whether there is a reasonable correlation between the size of the group grant and the purpose of the grant. The purpose of granting grants to the pooling groups in order to enable them to operate in such a way as to enable the pooling representatives to exercise their responsibilities has been established. Furthermore, it is assessed that the size and structure of the grant are appropriate following the changes made in the 2013 calculation model. The overall objective of the review has been to ensure that the system of group grants is designed in such a way as to serve its purpose and to ensure the confidence of the Stortinge trust in society. The Presidency believes that there is a need for major changes in the areas of transparency and equity, and a single presidency is behind the proposals in the vote. We believe that these are changes that will last over time. A separate provision regulating transparency and transparency is proposed. The Presidency considers that the use of public funds should be as transparent as possible and therefore proposes the introduction of a right of access to the information of the large-scale groups at the detailed level of the accounts and annexes after completed and audited accounts. The protection of the privacy of representatives and the employees of the groups and the competitive positions of the groups is ensured by some exceptions to the general rule of transparency, but the Presidency also shows that there is no obstacle to the transparency of the individual cases by the large-scale groups. The Presidency proposes further limitations on the ability to build up equity. The proposal implies that the pool shall continue to have access to own funds from the group grant but that the stock as of 1 July of the year following a capital increase may not exceed half a year's grant calculated on the basis of the last year's grant and the excess shall be repaid to the Stortinget. The Presidency also proposes to remove the grant granted to the Group of Presidents and to include in the guidelines a standard for the allocation of land to the groups in the building mass of the Stortinge. The Presidency also needs clearer guidelines in areas where there may be confusion today, but these changes are not intended to change current practices. The Presidency proposes that the guidelines enter into force on 1 October 2021, except for Section 11, on transparency, which is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2022, and Section 5, on equity, which is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2026, following the default of 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e244	It is essential for democracy to ensure that elected representatives perform their duties and that they do so in a way that guarantees popular legitimacy. We have seen a number of issues in the media that have not exactly contributed to this, both on how group grants go to high price fixing, on wealth building in the equity of the parties and on lack of transparency. Red is therefore pleased that there are proposals for tightening up and more transparency on the use of the group grant. It is a major step forward, which Red has also worked to propose transparency in the accounts of the large-scale groups at the level of the annex. At the same time, the rules allow for very large exceptions. Red will have the greatest possible transparency and therefore proposes that the groups should consider full or partial transparency even when the proposed provisions allow for omission. We propose that consideration for the public should weigh more heavily. Such are the rules of general government. The party groups are not government agencies, but we can follow this point. We also believe that the guidelines should come into force more quickly. Accounts should be made transparent from New Year’s onwards. The large, established batches that have not been granted access to them now have all the possibilities to recapitulate them in time. This should not wait until after the potting choice. It will also be too long to wait until 2026 to tighten the equity rules. The frameworks proposed are, after all, still very liberal. In 2013, the Group grant was amended from the fact that all parties on Stortinget, irrespective of their size, could provide their representatives with the necessary support. The allocation of jobs should follow the same model as the group grant. The proposed land-disposal model provides for a special discrimination between size groups and is, in our view, contrary to the purpose of the group grant. Red is for increased openness and strengthening of democracy. Now the size goes in the right direction, but we'll go a little bit further and a little bit faster. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e261	The representative Seher Aydar has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e266	I would like to give tribute to the President of the Grand Duchy, who has gone ashore this work. It is a tremendous advance for openness and transparency, and the presidency has done a formidable job of cleaning up the legislation that has been in place, because it has been so little openness and transparency, created the basis for doubt and suspicion about the work of the Storting. This takes a big step towards much greater openness, which is a project that we in SV have been on the barricades for a long time, but which we now think has come a lot, much longer. A little about the proposals from Red: As I see them, they will not give any change to the very basis for transparency, but it must be a little bit closer to the party groups if one is to be transparent or not. So there won't be any change. For SV's part, we want to practice a very high degree of transparency. When it comes to transparency from different types of actors, we will go very far in being able to meet them. There should be very different reasons why we shouldn't. Others might want to practice it in a different way. It'll be time to show. But the proposals from Red are primarily about a requirement to consider it a little bit closer. Could we get a comment from the case spokesman for that? For proposal No 2, from Red: As we read it, it's about the fact that the ownership of the groups has to come down to that level faster – from 2026 to 2022. Here we talk a lot about the Right and the Advance Party and that they have to spend a lot of money in a very short time. Is it correctly understood, and is it practically desirable – now I ignore the political – that one has such a race?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e275	At the clear invitation from Knag County, I take the word to comment on just that. I said in my first post that the presidency clearly underlines in the preamble that the parties should consider transparency where it is of public interest. As you can see, it is in line with both the SV's representative here, and what Red's representative said. We have also made a careful assessment of the relationship with public law, but the party groups are private legal entities, not public ones, which are almost fully financed by the government budget through the group grant. It would require a completely different type of bureaucratic work in the party groups if you were to comply with public law. Our assessment is that the rules that will now apply for transparency will meet precisely the need for transparency in the use of funds, with the few exceptions mentioned in the legislation. But I stress again: the presidency shows in the attitude that it is encouraging to provide transparency where the parties consider it appropriate, provided that privacy can be ensured, and that there is full understanding that competitive positioning for lots will not be information that is natural to provide transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e282	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e299	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e306	Thank you to the Committee for good cooperation. This message was supposed to have been in Stortinget in April, but was postponed, and we have therefore had additional consultation rounds in the case. In addition to that, I expect the various parties themselves to present their views in the debate that is coming. For the Workers' Party, district policy is one of the cornerstones of the development of Norway as a welfare society. We need to have a district policy that takes the whole country into use, which provides opportunities for education, work and residence throughout the country. Then there are a number of prerequisites that must lie at the root, and we will change the course of district policy. We will launch new measures to create development and confidence in the future across the country, and we will step up efforts in areas that the Right-Registration has neglected. In a Labour Party-led government, every state council will have marshalls that the policy we are pursuing will benefit both city and country. We're going to replace the district minister with real district policy. In this document, we refer to 60 points for a better and more comprehensive district policy. This is the greatest promise for rural policy since the 1970s, and it is absolutely necessary. After seven years with a government that has centralised and privatized, it is time for a new course of district policy. I'm going to mention some points that individually will give District Norway better opportunities to maintain and create new jobs in order to attract residence. We need to continue with the regionally differentiated employer tax scheme, which may be one of the most important district policy schemes. It's proven to be working. Then we have to bet on new industry, based on e.g. on the forest resources we have, and we need to ensure that more fish can be landed along the coast and processed so that a greater part of the value creation in the fishing industry remains in Norway. We need to address regional development funds, so that counties and municipalities can again carry out sensible business development work, usually in collaboration with private individuals. That's how you had a great opportunity before, but there's been a rough cut in those funds. We have to, as an example, improve the commuting subtraction. We have to have a better commuting allowance, so it makes it easier to live somewhere and work somewhere else – make it cheaper for people. We also need to ensure that communities are guaranteed a fair and predictable income when they make natural resources available for the benefit of the community. We need to change the structure of large tenders so that local and regional entrepreneurs can be able to participate in the fight to win these tenders and get the value creation regionally and locally. It is, of course, about the level of income of municipalities and counties. The last year was the worst for the municipal and county economy in 15 years. The proposal for 2021 does not look much better. It's a minus-budget proposal for 2021 from the government. Then it's about education. It's about decentralised education as an important step in enabling people to continue living in the districts and drop long journeys to educate themselves. In this respect, training institutions should be given greater opportunities to develop distance learning and so-called modular online training. The subsidiarity principle of State governance will also be an important tool. The state cannot leave the districts, as we hear that the Right rapporteur in Bø in the Westålden says: 'The Member States have left us'. The state has left Bø in the Vesterålen with the Right at the rudder. These points and the others that I have not mentioned, but which are described by us in this document, are examples of a better and more forward-looking district policy, a political direction and commitment in the districts that will raise the quality of the districts, help us to have housing and business throughout the country, and enable us to develop our welfare society so that everyone can participate, regardless of whether they live in the city or the countryside. That's why I'm going to make sure to round off saying that there's no contradiction between having an active metropolitan policy and an active district policy. It is city and country, hand in hand that constitutes the whole of Norway. I look forward to the debate today, for we see clear differences in policy and priorities here. Then I will address the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e335	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has drawn up the proposals of which the Labour Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e340	Good communities are formed by the people who live there. Safe jobs and good welfare services are important wherever you live in the country. No one settles in a place where there is no work. Therefore, it should be easy to create jobs across the country. District Norway is privileged with natural resources and areas that can be used to develop new industries, and many of the new, exciting jobs in the future will be developed in District Norway. The District Communication points to two major challenges: demographics and an increased need for skills for the labour and business sectors in the districts. We all need good welfare services and security in everyday life. A good school is essential for all children to have the opportunity to survive. Health services that provide assistance when you need it and that older people can live longer at home are just as important in the districts as in the city. The same is a police force that is clear when serious incidents occur. That is why the police are also heavily staffed under this government. The most important thing we do for growth in the whole of Norway is not about increased taxes, more subsidies or more regulation. It is about access to skills, about business-oriented tax cuts and about the access of businesses to markets to which they can sell their goods. Under this government, our country is being built together by a historic effort on the road and track. With a doubling of the transport budget, we now see a road development in the countryside and the city that lacks a parallel. At the same time, digital Norway creates entirely new opportunities for living and working in districts. With the digitisation of the public sector, a less frequent public service need to be physically sought. They can be reached with a keystroke on your mobile phone. Public digital services make everyday life easier and services better, and the digitisation of the public sector and the massive involvement of governments in broadband are also linked. The trend in the last 60 years — yes, in fact, since the 1800s — has been that more people move in towards cities. It's a global megatrend, regardless of government constellations. As politicians, we cannot decide where to live, but we can facilitate growth, attractiveness and increased housing in the districts and develop the small towns and the larger agglomerations. The combination of our enormous natural resources, a population with a great deal of competence and digitisation at the world summit, means that we have great opportunities for new, exciting jobs across the country, and we have to use them. The year since this district message was written has been unique. The pandemic has rocked the security of many, and 2020 has been a challenging year for both business, services and private individuals and families across the country. Fortunately, Norway has had a strong economic backbone and a political will to put the necessary measures into this difficult situation. Now we see a hope that effective vaccines can help reverse the pandemic. Before the pandemic occurred, the unemployment rate in District Norway was record low. There was a lot of investment in the industry. Travel and breeding went on so quiet, and the seafood set export records. The value creation was high in the district industry, and the scare we often hear the opposition is trying to draw, rhymes poorly. No single action or subsidy can solve any challenge and reverse global megatrends, but without job opportunities, people do not stay in our districts. That's why this government has focused on what works the most: it's reduced the lag from the red-greens with a historical commitment to transportation, and a doubling of budgets has made the city and the countryside link more securely and faster. It has been committed to playing with local business, lowering taxes and removing regulations for job creators, ensuring the important, differentiated employer fee and, in particular, ensuring the important export market by suspending the EEA Agreement. We have made a broad effort to develop skills because we know that access to skills is the most important challenge for districts. We have focused on digitisation of technology, which provides modern welfare services across the country, and agreed to the local initiative. We need a district policy that binds the country together and makes it easier to create new, profitable jobs – a policy that is good for people and good for business. It delivers this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e363	Spokesman of the Labour Party, Lauvås, led by right-wing spokesmen in Bø, Sture Pedersen, with the quote: ‘The States have left us’. I had a suspicion that that quote was going to be used in the hall today as well, as it was done in Political Quarter today. I've been to Sture in Bø, and I've been looking for the dictators of their inhabitants for a long time. I disagree with him at one point, and that is that the state has left him. The state, through County, has by no means left neither Bø nor other district municipalities. The state is in place so that it is successful, in producing contradictions, objections and making it difficult for local politicians to develop their areas. The state is absolutely present. My commitment to district policy is more about the state leaving several municipalities when it comes to piercing their homes, allowing municipalities to exploit their land and to create the jobs they want to create. In fact, I think that the Right Spokesman and I in Bø are quite a few things about, that we need a system that allows local politicians in Norway to focus on creating activity and jobs, more than getting transfers and mild gifts from this hall or government. That's what's at the heart of district policy, that we have to have spokesmen who get up in the morning and think: how do I get more inhabitants for my municipality, how do I create more jobs?, more than they get up and think: how do I get more transfers and more generous gifts from this room? Therefore, we need a district policy that recognises that local democracy should be allowed to function and allowed to decide for itself. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Progress Party has received the government party on a proposal that says that the county officials will receive a new letter, where they will be told that they should give greater emphasis to local self-government than they do today. There is a strong recognition that we are not happy with what we in those parties have done in seven years in common. We still have statesmen who stop too many sensible things. Therefore, we are forced to express from Stortinget, by a decision today, that it should be more important than today. It will be the most important district agency we can provide for the districts to be allowed to develop further. I am also pleased that both the government party and the Labour Party are part of our proposal to create a guide to take care of old buildings. It's a fact that very many buildings are built for a different time from what they are today. Nausta along our coast, different buildings linked to agriculture that are no longer in use in the same way – we are forced to give them a new content, make sure that they can create values so that they are taken care of. It's an important part of our culture, our coastal culture. For this reason, we are very pleased that there is a number that asks the government to create a guide, so that the municipalities get a recipe for how to use them, create a travel product, create accommodation and really give the districts the opportunity to be offensive in district policy. The progress party is very happy that we got multiples for the two proposals. This will be the most important contribution we can make from today's debate to local democracy and to the districts. Furthermore, district policy is about mass. When I travel around the district, there's almost one thing they're asking for, and it's transportation. I never hear local politicians or business people talk about regional development funds or that county municipalities need to become stronger in their food departments. What they're asking for is money. What they're asking for is better ferry services, better infrastructure, more broadband use. Therefore, it is important that we continue the line we have had for seven years, together with the government party, to strengthen the budget for transport. That's what matters to District Norway, that one actually has a mobility that allows one to get to and from the districts quickly. Ferry policy is another area that is very important to the coast. I now register that the government will bring something new today. They're going to split rural policy into two, coastal and mountain areas. If one then focuses on the coast, ferry services are extremely important. I record that the government one year ago, when it was a holiday riot, was very eager to travel around, but once the ferry uprising is not as strong in the media, one has forgotten this important part of the transport policy. One has forgotten to follow up on the state budget, one has actually cut as well. We're critical that the government is one year busy with this, but the next year is cutting. Transport is important. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e386	The representative Helge André Njåstad has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e391	We are currently processing a new district message, only a few years after the government presented its last. A society with small differences is better to live in for everyone. A successful district policy has historically been crucial for Norway. Widespread housing has been a key to the welfare development that Norway has had. There is no evidence that the need to use natural resources will be reduced in the future. To use these resources for jobs and value creation, we depend on people still seeing opportunities and using them throughout the country. Most of Norway are different districts. Then the policy must have faith in all of Norway and facilitate people's living, working and living their lives throughout the country. With the policies of the government and the supporting parties, many basic services and jobs have disappeared, and security and preparedness have been weakened, both in urban and rural areas. Municipalities and county councils throughout the country provide the basic welfare services to people. The money for the municipalities and the counties goes to run good schools for our children, provide good care for the elderly and provide good services to people and businesses. So the money for the municipalities is money for the basic services people need in everyday life. More frequent economic times for municipalities and county municipalities mean less services for people. Population and travel distances cannot be decisive for the financial assumption that municipalities will provide the assistance people need in care for the elderly, in kindergarten or in school. The central party believes that social and geographical differences need to be balanced across large and small municipalities, between towns and cities. Despite what the government believes is the municipal economy of the time, all budgetary studies show the opposite. It is difficult to be local politicians in districts, especially in small and medium-sized municipalities. People and businesses depend more on a good flight offer than the government is willing to admit. Responsibility shall now be transferred from the State to the States, in the midst of an aviation crisis. Nutrition and transport policies should contribute to the organisation of the natural resource-based value creation, which is mainly carried out in district municipalities, both along the coast and inland. The centre party believes that the state must enable the county councils to upgrade the road network, reduce ferry and boat prices, provide good training and provide a proper collective service. Everyone in Norway should feel safe, no matter where you live. This means being sure that police, ambulances and fire services come when you call, and that the time it takes to get help is as short as possible. If Norway is to achieve the objective of continued decentralised settlement and of using the whole country, we as countries must have the capacity to have a social and geographical balance of power, jobs and capital. Housing policy is an area affected by centralisation in other areas. Government policies make it more difficult for young people to enter the housing market, especially in cities. In the districts it is a well-known concept that the house is worth half when the key is put in the door. This has to be solved. The government's lack of understanding of local conditions is expressed by restrictions on areas such as land planning, motor traffic, predatory fallowing, housing and industrial development. The government creates serious uncertainty for businesses and employees who currently benefit from the differentiated employer’s fee scheme. Differentiated employer’s fee is Norway’s main means of regional policy, says all reports. This means that the country has a different fee for a job in Oslo and in Finnmark to balance the company's ability to have employees. It is a tool that needs to be further developed to strengthen the whole country. This is what the government has put in game. The government parties with supporting parties have repeatedly introduced tax reinforcements that have adverse effects on district policy. The commuters have had strong fiscal austerity in time with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. The central party believes that everyone should make a contribution. Those who extend extra long and have a long journey to work will receive reasonable compensation for this. The reduction of opportunities for people and businesses in the districts, which is, after all, the majority of Norway, reflects the political objective of the right-wing government with the support of the Progress Party. Many parts of the business in the districts are doing well. Let's build it up and not down. Negative developments in several areas may be modified by policy decisions. It's about will. That is the will of the Senter Party. With this, I take up the proposals from the Center Party and the SV and the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e429	The representative Willfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e434	People have to live where they want to, but it's a political responsibility to make it possible. Centralisation is an international trend. It's a choice of its own, but it's not least a result of politics. The government has put forward a big message saying that it is going the wrong way, and they will continue even more with the same policy, which will depopulate the districts. There's an SV completely disagreed. The only proposals that seem to come from the government are that they should have more release for the destruction and privatisation of the beach zone and nature. SV wants to build on community and workplaces. We'll look forward to looking at what's renewable. We can do that – and have a very good district policy, to take care of and use natural resources rationally is good district policy. The Community first: then we have to look at what we do in the municipal sector and in the state sector. The municipal sector is exposed to a saving campaign by this government. SV is the party that will bet most on the community of municipalities. Telemark research has produced a report that shows that the state centralises the most and that most jobs have been centralised in the last three years. So when representatives of government parties go up here and say that work is important, it is important to stop centralisation, because there are important skills jobs around. The second is that it's about important offers to people. That is why SV has proposed a closeness reform, and we are pleased that we have got the Workers' Party and the Centre Party on it. We are also promoting proposals to ensure that government jobs are left outside Oslo and the other areas of the press, and that the impact of district policy on all matters and reorganisations must be explored. And we've seen enough of that: Nav, tax, higher education, the Coastal Works, the House Bank – just to name someone. And it's workplaces, it's! Furthermore, SV is engaged in creating the new jobs. While the government is committed to sticking even more firmly to the oil industry, where we know we need to step down, SV proposes strong measures to build jobs on local resources, ensure that both jobs and money are served and benefit the districts. Then we need to shift the risk burden to renewables for both small and large players to start business development, and it suggests SV. Among other things, we have a proposal in this position to which the Workers' Party and the Centre have also joined, and that is a legal measure within the EEA rules as they are today. It is to provide direct support, unbureaucratic automatic support, for the start-up of small and medium-sized enterprises, for start-up costs, investment costs and marketing costs, for example: during a five-year period. It would have been very important now that the tourism industry and tourism are located in so large parts of District Norway, and when then they dare to bet. Let's do this, let's use the space we have within the EEA to establish this now. In addition to that, we also need local skills opportunities. There's a good offer for the study centers. Some states have organized this differently, but they live from hand to mouth. They do not have fixed State grants that enable them to coordinate the efforts to be made. I appeal most strongly to everyone that they support the SV's proposal in this matter, because it must be done in place. For private businesses and for public enterprises, it is absolutely essential that people can learn their whole lives, take education, from the basics and to higher education locally, and do so while in work. Furthermore, it is important now to put in place both broadband and 5G in the districts. Those who don't get it will be disconnected from the development. That's why we have to start at the other end. We can't start building up first in the center, and then, finally, get the districts. Then there goes the popular road, and then the districts get disconnected. Furthermore, SV wants to move on to the transport appropriations, money from central motorway projects to good district roads. I refer to the suggestions from SV that are in the setting. Then I'll ask for the word one more time to complete my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e453	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e459	The debate today is really a debate we should have had in ours, but now it was a break. However, we have had time to get to know the content. It also gives good reason for optimism, because several arrows actually point up. Before the pandemic, unemployment in District Norway was record low, business was growing, travel and farming went so far, and the government has granted several billions to ensure that these industries will also stand strong after the pandemic. The district message also tells us that things are going a lot better in District Norway than some parts in this hall want us to believe. Representatives of the districts have spent a lot of time traveling around talking to people, entrepreneurs and business managers in the districts. According to what I have heard and seen, the district message is not surprising reading. Despite positive prospects, some parties want to create the impression that Stortinget and the government are working against the districts. This has led to a seemingly stronger urban - country conflict today than it has been for a long time. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to take it down a bit. I think we are all served by a frankness in the debate on how things really stand in our country. It is not expected that the district message will give cause for optimism. It describes a reality that stands out well in relation to what the red-green government achieved in eight years. It's important to notice. In 2019 alone, 40 000 jobs were created in rural and urban areas. State employment is in almost all countries higher today than in 2013. Over the last seven years, more than 1,500 police stations have been established in the police districts. Transport budgets have more than doubled in recent years. And numbers from the SSB show that about 80 pst. Exports of goods and half of service production go to the EU. The EEA Agreement provides us with valuable access to a crucial market. The total Norwegian export volume was over 1 300 billion. kr in 2019. Much of the production takes place in the districts. The autumn report of the District Industry Committee tells us that the industry in the districts is going well and has good prospects for further growth. Furthermore, the government is linking the country with a historical commitment to broadband and digital services. In 2010 the district committee delivered a report to us where we could read that 8 pst. high-speed broadband was available by households in Norway. Today, ten years later, has 89 pst. offer of high-speed broadband by Norwegian households. Norway, together with Denmark, has the very best mobile and broadband access in Europe. We're used to the contrast between the city and the country marking the debate. Stein Rokkan gave us the state-scientific concepts to understand that contradiction between center and periphery, and political parties do not throw away the opportunity to keep them straight. But I think it's more than ever important that we move in the same direction. It is not to conceal that our geography poses challenges, but I believe that this government's policy is helping to break down important barriers. The divisive rhetoric that builds up in conflicts between cities and towns benefits neither the districts nor the cities. This hall represents all parts of Norway, and it becomes too easy to point out that individual parties, even the government, attack them in their alleged undermining of the districts. None of us is pursuing a conscious anti-diversity policy, and it must be allowed to ask that the polarising rhetoric that is spreading be gradually abandoned. There is no point in saying that the current government does not facilitate a good rural policy. I believe that the red-greens had eight years of just as good intentions with their district policies as this government has. It is important that we do not impose false needs on our political opponents. Split rhetoric leads nowhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e476	I've tasted a little bit about the concept of district policy. It's a very strong and symbolic word in our small but long-range country. I don't know when the term arose, but everyone understands about what it is, even though it is sometimes abused and narrowed down. I think we're good at getting close to district policy without any cuts. Good district policy is the sum of many policies that work together to facilitate housing, business and well-being across the country. Both the overall industrial policy, competence policy, cultural policy, health policy, transport policy and the framework for the county and local economy are essential for housing and growth in all parts of the country, especially those parts that differ in the district concept. So also in environmental policy, which is crucial for both well-being and nutrition, not to say the whole basis of our lives. People live their more or less busy lives all over the country. So I remember family politics, respecting families whether they live in Kristiansand or Hattfjelldal, knowing best how they want to set up their everyday life. It is also a framework for the good lives of the city and the country. It's only if we think broadly that we can define good district policy. If we narrow it down to a few tools, it can be a good media play, but not a whole policy. In that statement, there is some frustration that we in this room seem to be at the top of simplified playback rather than conducting good social management. All the political debate is now corroborated. This is a new seriousness and a new understanding of the crisis in the country. It's a difficult exercise to distinguish dirt and cinnamon in these times, but I think we have to try. It is a long-term underlying policy, and it is hopefully a time-limited policy that is about dealing with the crisis. The cinnamon in this context is that before the pandemic occurred, the unemployment rate in District-Norway was record low. There was great investment in industry, travel and farming went so far, the seafood industry had set export record, and the lowest unemployment count was Trondelag, Troms and Finnmark, Nordland and Inland. There is a bad deal with the scare image parts of the opposition are trying to draw from the situation in District-Norway. That's what's normal, that's what we're supposed to go back to, but despite high value creation in the district industry, the trend in the last 60 years has been that many people move from town to city. There's been an underlying centralization of people in the last 50 years. All of this is not because of decisions, but something we see all over the world. We cannot or should not control the choices and behaviour of individuals and families, but we must make it possible to choose in family policy as in district policy. It is our task on the part of national authorities to facilitate a living business, good and predictable welfare services and good communication solutions. There's no need to talk the districts down. Nor is there any reason to explain that small municipalities with far between houses have other challenges than Oslo and Drammen. When I talk to people from parts of the country with major district challenges, like the municipality where I myself was rapporteur for 18 years, there are three messages left: broadband, competence and access to skills and transport. I am proud that in the 2021 proposal, the budget for transport has almost doubled in the period and the broadband subsidies have been systematically increased. The Government proposes to continue to invest in the draft budget for 2021. Appropriations for broadband expansion have increased year by year with the current government, and that is what is needed. It is now in the final phase, and the public has to feel extra bored when the market becomes so small that it does not drive itself. Nevertheless, the country and its districts face several challenges. There will be fewer young people working behind each pensioner, both business and public, struggling to obtain the right skills, and the country will carry out a green shift. Recently, we got the position from the district industry committee. The committee was asked to describe good local and regional industrial policy and to make visible what promotes and inhibits profitable business activities in the districts. The purpose of the sample was to assess the importance of business to achieve district policy objectives. Let me mention last of all the regional reform – excavated by some, but wanted by many of the parties that have seen it opportunistically to suture and congeal. Once fully implemented, decisions and instruments will be much more managed by elected regional politicians. It provides a basis for significant regional policy gains as county municipalities can develop their regional advantage and compensate for regional challenges. Everything alive is changing. That's the way it is in nature, and that's how we organize human interaction and the framework for society. It sounds as if some in this room deny the fact and glorify structures and patterns that have existed since I was young. It's not a good recipe for forward-looking district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e501	Norway is an all-round country with different opportunities and challenges. It takes the government into account in its district policy. We believe that a broad effort in the districts is the best we can do, and our main contribution is to make opportunities in the districts real. This is why the government has invested heavily, among other things: by almost doubling the appropriations allocated to traffic. The government’s prioritisation of infrastructure provides opportunities for regional development, strengthens the basis for housing, resource use and industrial development and binds cities and countries together. We have a record high coverage of broadband in Norway, and the proportion of households in scattered districts with high-speed broadband access is fivefold under this government. The government is making great efforts to improve the framework conditions for businesses, creating jobs, incomes and housing in the districts. This is done by reducing taxes and simplifying everyday life to thousands of businesses across the country. Overall, Norway spends around 46 billion. on direct regional policy instruments. 46 B.C.E. NOK is a lot of money. That's almost 10 billion. kr more than when we took over the government power. There is also a low or no employer’s fee that saves millions of dollars for employing staff in the districts instead of in the central districts. In March the world was hit by a pandemic that has put both the building and the city to the test. The district report that was presented before the virus outbreak pointed out that the industry in the districts was doing well. Wage-earning private jobs provide a basis for growth and progress. We see that our tools for industrial development and innovation hit the district industry very well. For example, in the districts, over half of the total grant appropriations of Innovation in Norway for industrial aid were triggered by industry in 2019. That makes us, among other things. is able to support several of the world’s leading industries in the districts, such as: green shipping, and contribute to the development of new industries and new exciting jobs around the whole of District Norway. The government contributes to the creation of good welfare services and security wherever you live. Income increases to municipalities have contributed to good welfare services also in districts. We have also raised the level and quality of state health services, education and not least the police. The government has, for example: so far invested and decided to invest around 157 billion. kr only in health buildings. In addition, the government has strengthened the police so that we reach the target the red-greens set for two police posts per thousand inhabitants divided into 225 posts. The government is putting a heavy strain on education and skills. Strengthening the provision of decentralised education. We have e.g. launch of the competence pilot scheme, focusing in particular on the competence needs of small businesses in the district of Norway. An important key for rural development lies in digitisation and modernisation. Digital solutions increase the availability and quality of services. Before that many had to travel far to have the vehicle reregistered. Today you can do it from your own living room on your PC. In addition, digitisation opens up for new jobs, such as data centres and battery factories. The districts have places, districts have renewable energy. All residents and businesses will have access to the Internet regardless of where they live. The level of broadband payments in districts has increased sharply, and now we are also going to have national 5G in place. Then we start both in the big cities and out on the smallest islands. Soon, in addition to the location of the district industry commission, we will have an investigation into demographic challenges in the districts, with which Victor Norman is leading. There we will look at how to address the challenge of fewer young people behind each older person in the districts as well. For the government, it's about the opportunities in the districts. It's important to raise them up. I see that someone is more concerned about fighting modernisation, change and better services. There is a wrong way to present the districts. It doesn't make the districts more attractive. We need to make visible the opportunities and potential that lie in good life in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e534	The Council of State set out to divide Norway into two district policies in the Political Quarter this morning early. Now it's only a few days since we left the setting that we're dealing with here today, and in that setting, it's not a clue to find out about this grip that the Council of State talked about in the morning today, and that it was really very difficult to get a grip on what was. Why is this not mentioned in the setting, and why is there no proposal from the Right or the other government parties about this in this setting? Or is it, in fact, that the Council of State is working after what we call the approach to entry in district policy, because no one has heard about this before, and it is not mentioned here today at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e539	That's how, as the representative may know, when the government comes up with strategies, it's not going to be sent to the Stortinget. It's the government's privilege to present. Then, the district message that was presented is an overall starting point on what the stand is like, but also on how the course is going on. As a district minister, I want us to put more concretely into the challenges, but also the potential that lies in District Norway, and then it is wrong to define every little western and small coastal community as if they have exactly the same needs and the same opportunities, because we see that there are great differences. On the coast you have the sea, which provides enormous opportunities for value creation, and in mountain regions we see that, among other things. Travel life, mineral industry — other activities — provide jobs. The government wants to work more concretely, and that is why we want to put forward a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e546	After this answer, it did not become very clear. On the contrary, it became even more foggy. It's very hard to understand that a government can't get such a kind of innovation, which is supposed to be very important and rewarding, when you had the opportunity in a district announcement, in Stortinget today. And as I said, we made this setting just a few days ago, so this must be something that the Council of State has just thought about a random morning, and it's really not good for district policy that you're working on that kind of approach. But I get to ask the Council of State a different question, which is a little more concrete: now it is proposed to put down the traffic station at Wiesen, which is important for business, and which embraces 50,000–60,000 people. Now it's going to be put down and moved many, many miles away. Why is this good district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e553	First, I have to comment on the statements made by the representative – almost – that this is something that has not been dealt with by the government. The strategies have been chosen by the government because we want more concreteisation – not least after we saw the Workers' Party's biggest regional political upswing since the 1970s, where no mention is made of the industry, Norway's largest industry, which contributes to most jobs and industrial activities throughout the country, namely the oil and gas industry. Then I can't take responsibility that the representative doesn't understand what the government means to put forward strategies to make more concrete, to help create more jobs in the districts. The start shot went on today. I promise that when they are drawn up, I will send the strategies to the representative, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e560	I guess now was the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e565	Interestingly, the largest opposition party uses two lines on the issue of mountain and coastal differences, and that is the big challenge in our country. I can verify that there's a big difference. The coast has sea, and many coastal communities depend on ferries. It hires me on the question that I have. I registered that the district minister was in charge of the Minister of Transport on a ferry trip before Norway shut down. They drank coffee and ate food, I looked at the pictures. They brought some money into the revised budget after they were on their way. Now they brought the state budget, and then they cut the money. So I wonder, when the government is busy distinguishing between inland and coastal, why don't they recognise the need for cheap ferry tickets for business? Why did one do it cut in the state budget for 2021? Do you need to take a new vacation and eat more food to make more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e572	It could have been nice to be on a ferry trip with the representative Njåstad and eat savoury. I would like to start by stressing that I am very pleased that the Progress Party also has a broad approach to district policy, that the Progress Party does not – as some other parties in this Chamber – believe that it is the narrow regional policy with subsidies and individual measures that will solve the major challenges, but for example. a great effort on the part of the Party of Advancement and this Government. The government works for a simpler and cheaper travel day for those who use ferries. It is absolutely vital that you can live around the coast of Norway. As part of the financial measures in response to the outbreak of the virus, the government granted 285 million. kr for the operation of ferries on the national roads. We have also received feedback that there are major challenges with the AutoPASS system. It took hold of the government and worked on deposit claims to reduce it. [[The President clubs.]] We're busy... I have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e580	Time's up. Governments must try to be faster in their answers!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e585	With today’s technological developments, state jobs can be located anywhere, only if broadband capacity is sufficient. The government has created approx. 21,000 new state jobs since 2013 and trying to create the impression that they are evenly distributed across the country, and that this is good district policy. However, statistics show that 13 000 of these were created in the four largest cities – 4 500 in Oslo. This is at the top of the violent internal centralisation in the regions. In Trøndelag, 3,190 of the 3,200 new state jobs are created in Trondheim. Does the Council of State think it can be called good district policy to add all new state jobs to the big cities? If not, what will the Council of State do to ensure that this development reverses?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e590	First, I have to correct the representative, because the increase in all government employment has been falling in the four largest cities since 2013. We will continue to dampen the growth in the number of state jobs in the big cities. That is why we are locating state jobs across the country. The Government has adopted new guidelines for State employment. This means that all state workplaces established and relocated shall be established and moved outside the Oslo region. All major entrances shall include an assessment of what can be moved out of Oslo. State employment is higher in almost all counties today than it was in 2013. This government has moved beyond twice as many state jobs as the Senter party was able to do when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e595	It must mean that the Council of State rejects the report of Telemarksforskning, which shows that it is the state that has centralised most in the last three years. I don't think the Council of State really understands that, but maybe the Council of State should realize that small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts now need the courage to get started. Then there is a need for the state to relieve risks, and there we have experience that the State instruments have worked very well. It's in the government's own documents. Therefore, SV now suggests that we can do what is allowed under the EEA Agreement, namely to provide direct support for start-up, investment and marketing to small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they dare to establish themselves. Because after the Korona crisis and so much decline in travel and tourism in particular, it is very few that are dry. What's the reason why the government won't be aware of it, but it's a good thing that it's risk-absorbing hard companies like... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e602	Firstly, we are committed to facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises by having predictable framework conditions. What they need is what is SV's answer: increased taxes. So we know that the instrumentation, through the SIVA, through the Research Council, through the business environment, and not least through the support that has come to small and medium-sized enterprises through conversion funds in the context of the coronary crisis, is important. But for those who want to establish themselves, accessing capital is crucial. Then it's about that we're also making provision for private capital. We see this as a lack of space in the districts – it's centered on the larger cities. It is the combination of all the foreseeable framework conditions that makes more enterprises establish themselves, and we also see that the district industry committee concludes that... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e611	Time's up, line change's over. Those who are given the following word have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e618	Transport policy is one of the most important means of creating growth and development across the country. This is the best district policy we can have. Buildings and cities are connected more closely, we are building more roads and more paths – that is good policy. This government has reduced the slowdown from the red-greens with a historical commitment to traffic. We have almost doubled the travel budget from 2013, and when we set up New Veger, we build faster and get more money back. That's what the opposition's gonna do. I understand that they will then spend more money than is necessary to build new roads. In my own home state, we have a story about the Ringerix Railway. It had to be a non-socialist government to cut through a project that had been stamping for decades. New road and path will now open up for development across the Ringeriks and Hallingdals region. It's district policy. And: This government is playing with business. We lower taxes, we remove regulations for job creators, and we have reduced the wealth tax on working capital, removed the machine tax and made changes in the power tax. We honor those who will invest in their own and others' jobs in their own community. And not least, we guarantee the export businesses in the districts their main export market by suspending the EEA Agreement. This one will also scrap the Center Party. It's not district policy, is it? Before the pandemic occurred, the unemployment rate in District Norway was record low. There was a lot of investment in the industry. Travel life and breeding went so quiet. The seafood industry set an export record. It's not right with the scare images the opposition is trying to draw from the situation in District-Norway. The reason why people can live and thrive throughout the country is because you have a job to do. The government has therefore also moved out and established 1, 230 jobs outside the Oslo region. It's actually twice as many as the red-green claws. The relocation of state jobs is important because it contributes to creating environments of competence outside cities, which in turn increase the attractiveness of the site to families with children and not least to investment. But we cannot live on state jobs alone. It is primarily the jobs in the private sector that create opportunities and activity in the community. That's why we have prioritised good conditions for the job creators.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e635	Everyone wants development – and not liquidation. Centralization must stop. The government believes it is important to spread power and build society from below. A strong local government gives peoples and communities freedom and the ability to control their own everyday life and social development. That is why coercive decisions were taken to merge Finnmark and Troms. There hasn't been any great success – has there? The number of people in the districts is increasing in age, and more and more municipalities have a decline in population. No matter how we choose to live our lives, we have to have the same opportunities in life. Major and minor forms of nutrition must be heated. Different societies must have the same benefits, for example: police, health services and schools. This should be a matter of course. In Gamvik one now has a complete review of the municipal economy, and one has to make significant cuts. A review may be healthy, but when the reviews take place as often as now, it leads to uncertainty for the population. Most recently, some will have rated the Gamvik school together with Mehamn school. The distance may not be that great, but what people are afraid of is whether the kids get to and from Gamvik because of the weather, which has been insanely bad at times. It creates bad housing. Berlevåg: Here a lady asked me how we could allow the fish that was fished right outside the living room door not to land, so that more industrial workplaces could be created in Berlevåg – as it was in the past. Berlevåg had hundreds of jobs as a result of fishing a few years ago. She believed that freezing plants used to send the fish out of the country for production had to be banned. Fish are caught off the coast of Norway, sent far for production and then sent back to Norway, and we find it in the shops. We have to end this with. People must be able to buy Norwegian fish produced in Norway. All the businesses I've met along the coast say there's a shortage of raw materials – while we've never had as many quotas as we have now. The rapporteur in Båtsfjord says that we must have confidence in the fisheries policy. We have the world's best fish, and we've been processing fish for hundreds of years. We can do this. The coast wants more work, and we have to stop sending the fish abroad for production. We have to fish the fish ourselves, and we have to produce it ourselves. There is one way to go to create more jobs along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e648	This district message clearly shows that the government wants living communities throughout the country. In many parts of our country, it's going well, and the government wants it to be possible to live a good life – no matter where in Norway a cage. Norway has a topography that gives large distances between regional labour markets. In combination, we are now facing a demographic challenge. Increasing numbers of older people in the District of Norway in particular will reinforce the challenge of labour shortages both in the private and public sectors. The message points to the Competence Selection, which suggests that regional differences in recruitment can be linked to limited mobility, small labour markets and that potential candidates do not seek a job because the professional environment is too small. Lack of own housing can also be home to relocation and construction, and thus also to the recruitment of stable labour. In Norwegian housing policy, the ownership line is strong – and should continue to do so. But we also need to take care to ensure labour mobility. In order to develop attractive, resilient cities and agglomerations, good coordination of housing, land and transport planning is essential. We must facilitate value creation and industrial development and promote health, environment and quality of life. Municipalities and county councils have a high responsibility for good planning processes that secure the priorities for a desired social development. ‘Program for an age-friendly Norway’ is one of the five main issues that the government has pointed to in Life throughout its life. It will help to clarify how the individual and society can help older people to live more actively and more autonomously. The shape of the future must adapt to new technologies and stimulate good intergenerational encounters. Housing markets in smaller districts and small labour markets are often inflexible, and housing for the elderly can also contribute to more dynamism and circulation in local housing markets for other target groups. In areas with little new construction, upgrading existing dwellings may be particularly important. It is therefore important that we support under the district councils their work in the housing field, and here I would like to mention the House Bank, the DIBK and not least the Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e663	One of the things that bothers me most about the parties that want to appear to be the government alternative for the Kingdom is the future of the EEA Agreement. I worry not least in a district policy context. The EEA Agreement has served Norway well. European countries represent a large part of the market for Norwegian manufactured goods and raw materials. In particular, our rural industries benefit from orderly and predictable market access to European countries and availability of skilled labour from the whole EEA territory to, for example, shipbuilding and the fishing industry. It's going to be gambling with our district industry to put the EEA Agreement into play, as the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party will. If the Workers' Party is thinking of ruling with – or with the support of – these parties, this issue must be a commercial nightmare. There are of course things to postpone on the EEA Agreement, but I will not hesitate to characterise it as a district enemy to jeopardize the EEA Agreement. In the world of real policy and business, there is market access and predictable framework conditions that count, not proclamations, and fishing in upset water that you yourself have whipped up. I'm going to admit, for honesty lasts as far as I know, that I was concerned about agricultural policy when seven years ago we got a government where the Progress Party was to govern that area. The unrest persisted, but was most often brought in through conciliation in the Storting. Now the seat has changed – my party is in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is very important in the context of regional policy. Norwegian agriculture is important for maintaining food security, value creation, housing and cultural landscapes. The government will take care of the uniqueness of Norwegian food production, such as low drug use, good animal welfare and a long value chain, as well as the use of Norwegian resources, to facilitate agriculture throughout the country. Every year, even before the accession of the Christian People's Party, the government has taken action to improve profitability, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized applications. For agriculture too, predictability is important – the security of investment and not collapsing with central party political space exercises and SV requiring the deletion of the EEA Agreement, which will jeopardise the entire protection of Norwegian agricultural products. My party rarely speaks in large letters about tax relief, but I like to talk very much about reducing taxes on wealth on working capital. The reliefs in property taxes on working capital are important in District Norway – owners of the property that have to pay property taxes on the truck, on farms that have to pay property taxes on dairy cows Dagros, or on furniture producers who have to pay property taxes on the stock of foam. I jumped in the chair when the representative Støre concluded in a debate the other day that these tax concessions were not relevant to the companies. It must have been a delay, but it is quick to think so if one bases his message on taxation only on the premise of redistribution and does not take into account business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e678	The whole of Norway is in transition, a big city that's built. Many communities are facing major changes and right-wing jobs for all citizens to have an equivalent service provision. Strong enterprises and living community are a competitive advantage for Norway. District policy is the sum of many policies that work together to facilitate housing, business and well-being across the country. In many countries, including at home, we see an increasing polarization where cities are set up against land. I believe it must be a fundamental premise in the Norwegian district policy that we together have the ability to take care of Norwegian trust and build bridges between town and town. Strong and autonomous municipalities are important to ensure safe and good communities across the country. The economic situation in Norwegian municipalities is evenly above good. In 2013 there were 46 municipalities registered in ROBEK – today the number is 12. We read from the statistics that the average annual growth in the free income of the municipal sector per capita has been higher during this government than under the red-green. The voluntary work is glued to many small and larger communities. Therefore, I am pleased that the government in 2021 reached the goal of escalating the VAT compensation to the volunteering of SEK 1.8 billion. kr. At the same time, we see that the abbreviation has been reduced in recent years. In 2013, this compensation was SEK 941 million. kr. Volunteer centres are often naveled in this important work out there locally. In the context of the treatment of the 2021 municipal proposition, the government parties and the Progress Party withdrew from the inclusion of the support to the volunteer centres in the framework grant to the municipalities, among others. in order to avoid weakening the funding of the centres in district municipalities. Voluntary centres in Norway have developed into a central and important part of their volunteering in the last 30 years. Through a stable grant scheme, Stortinget has created a basis that has triggered an enormous local commitment to volunteering. Volunteer centres are very valuable and play an important role in mobilising voluntary efforts across the country. Today, there are volunteer centres in 312 municipalities that organise more than 55,000 volunteers. For the Right, it is now important to highlight the need for predictability of the centres and the need to get municipalities to participate and commit to funding in the coming years. The good community is created in the interaction between the local communities, public services and private business. In this puzzle, volunteer centres are an essential piece for good districts and not least a good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e696	It's touching that the government is trying to give the impression that they're listening to what the municipalities need. So far, the municipalities have experienced nothing but a cold debt from the government, with cuts in grants, centralisation and demands for aggregation. The government has revived both the Bunadsgerilja, coastal uprisings, district uprisings and demonstration trains in both coastal municipalities such as Nesna and inland municipalities such as Ringsacht. It's in the municipalities that people live in. It's where the welfare is managed, and the government is kept alive. We've become immensely concerned with births, but should talk much more about which world these children are born into, the Center Party will make a boost for children and young people across the country and ensure good welfare services near them. Social and geographical differences need to be balanced across large and small municipalities and between cities and towns. The municipalities are the ones that ensure that we have good kindergartens and schools. The counties govern the secondary schools and the educational capacities of young people. We're introducing new curricula in primary school these days, and we're getting up and down in high school. This will be a stomach job if the government does not provide more money for teaching positions, teaching materials, temporary workers, training, equipment and other needs for adequate school operations. The first line in the municipalities, whether health or growth, is worn to the rim. At the same time, we have a government that gives the impression of knowing better than people locally. The last in line is the government’s obligation to take character-based admissions to higher education. This is contrary to the responsibility of the counties for competence. Should everyone have equal access to education and skills, they must, among other things: have access to adequate internet coverage. This is a prerequisite for working in 2020. With Corona outbreaks and home school, both teachers and supervisors have had a cold shower of problems with the lack of the Internet. In addition, the Regional Communication focuses a lot on access to higher education. It wasn't the government that decided on a historic growth for the colleges, but the Center Party and the opposition. It's not the government that provides measures for decentralised education, it's the Center Party and the opposition that does. The centre party will provide a better economy for municipalities and county municipalities. We want to ensure good kindergartens and schools. We want to ensure decentralised education and digital rights for all. Changes are going faster and faster. That is what we need both educational institutions and the municipal sector to tackle and deliver, because it is the municipalities that know the best locally and ensure good services near people. This is where people live, and at the end of the day, it's about people and opportunities for people all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e713	I'm a proud district representative. And I come from a municipality and a county that is widely referred to as District Norway. Business is going very well almost all over the country, even though we see some clouds in the horizon because of the pandemic. Both before the corona pandemic took us, and now, in the middle of the corona, Nordland is the state that has the lowest unemployment rate. We have company managers and employees who see opportunities, who create values every day, and who have in progress. There is a review tone when I travel around Northern Ireland that the government must continue with the work they have done for District Norway until now – let it continue to smell asphalt throughout the county, continue with the enormous effort to expand broadband, and, not least, let the municipalities sit back with some of the values they provide, as was the case with the Marine Farm Fund on the Right here on the Stortinget. It is precisely this type of infrastructure and incentives that enable jobs to be developed and lived throughout the country — and the rest of the country. But we have a challenge that's not of a new date, and that's that we're getting fewer. Training opportunities are a key to preventing this. And what does the political leadership in Northern Ireland, with the Central Party and the Workers' Party at the head, do to prevent this? Well, here the county council is putting school classes in high school, they're confusing the offer throughout the county. They cancel offers that have been decentralised throughout the county and offered in line with what the industry around has asked for. So now school offers are being put down and centralized in some places. This means that young people down to the age of 16 have to move on to dormancy in order to go to high school. This also jeopardizes jobs by the fact that enterprises do not have qualified labour. This does not contribute to housing throughout the state and the country. Just these days there is an uproar with rapporteurs and party leaders from the Central Party of South-Helgeland – against their own county council in Northern Ireland, for once again the council of the Workers' Party and the Senter Party have proposed centralising cut proposals. So those who believe that the Center Party and the Workers' Party are going to be able to stop a centralization at a government change, and that they are going to reopen Nesna, should first check what is actually happening in municipalities and states where they have power today, and check the story from when they last sat in government offices. During the red-green government period, the population growth in Norway was 9.7 p.m., while the five largest municipalities in the country experienced growth of 15.4 p.m.. Politics is about prioritizing, and the Right in Government has prioritised the development of transport and broadband, which makes it possible to live and work throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e732	Politics is about prioritizing, and no government has had as much money at its disposal as this government. They can't have been sitting and throwing all the money out of the window, can they? So something more has to be done to get to the road and traffic and to municipalities. Some of us have given a different priority than the government — more to the municipalities, more to roads and transportation in the districts, more to business development for the small and medium-sized enterprises that want to stand up, less to the large, stone-rich owners and, among other things, to business development. less to the risk relief that the government and the bulk of the population are unfortunately dealing with the oil industry, which everyone says in the parties that we have to end with. Then we have to turn the industrial and fiscal instruments into districts and into what is sustainable, climate and environment. The government doesn't. On the contrary, a new book, which has come through district policy, shows that direct farm-oriented support in the districts is completely systematically weakened. On the other hand, the distortions that have been made in the risk-absorbing of oil and gas and in the large tax administrations have also distorted the financial means of achieving this in a centralised direction. – I'm not the one saying that, it's written in a book on the history of district policy that was published a year ago. So to the community economy, a lot of people say there's a few people at ROBEK right now. Yes, it's because the municipalities have been sitting and cutting. The municipality I live in now is cutting low-threshold supplies in psychiatry. They don't have the money – they don't have the money at all – but they're scared to get to ROBEK, and therefore they kiss. The difference between SV and the government is that we want to reduce the risk and provide help to the small businesses that are going to stand up. The moment you make a lot of money and have a lot of money, you have to contribute a little to the community that has made you stand up. It's a good deal, and it'll give many more jobs around the country. Finally, on competence: we need to get a steady funding of the decentralised higher education around the country. They live from hand to mouth every year. Universities and colleges do not have the main interest in doing so. We need to put funding at the bottom, so that there can be coordination of what education services are needed in both private and public business – what do people living in this area need, and what education provision is there and what can be obtained locally? There must be money for this, and it must not vary from year to year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e745	The district message refers to a great development in very many areas of District Norway. I would like to give a brief situation report from my municipality of residence, Egersund, which is district municipality and regional centre in Dalane. Fishing operations in the municipality report adventurous catches. By the third quarter, there are 270 000 tonnes of fish in Egersund port. 2020 will be the best year since the early 2000s. The flow rate is high – fish in and fish out on a boat to the world only days after landing. The Minister of Fisheries was visiting a month ago and was able to see this by self-esteem. It generates income for the enterprises, the port enterprise and the municipality in the form of good tax revenue. Tax revenue so far this year is actually above budget and expectations, despite covid-19 and so-called bad times. The corner stone company Aker Solutions reports a lot of activity. Egersund Energy Hub, a newly launched centre for energy and sea wind activity, was visited recently by the Minister of Oil and Energy. They report optimism and many stakeholders who will participate in the new energy agenda. The high school has its only line for wind turbines operators. The youth who is now guaranteed a place of learning by the operators. There's optimism, and someone's doing something right. The coastal works have contributed millions to the deepening of the port. This allows even larger vessels to enter for unloading and loading. There is currently work on locating minerals in a large field just outside Egersund. A conservative estimate is 330 billion. kr. We're talking about new jobs and new tax revenues. We in the region are looking forward to a new four-field E39 coming through the municipality. Business has great hopes for the new path. Among other things, the window manufacturer NorDan has ordered that they will save transport costs of 10 million. kr per year. When New Weier AS starts construction, it will also provide a lot of activity and work for local businesses. As I said, this was just a brief report from a district municipality in the South West. There are, of course, challenges in some areas, but there is certainly a lot of positive going on as well, and in some cases the government has been a solid and good contributor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e762	The previous post can actually be a good backtrace for the discussion we have here, because what we see around in District Norway is rebellion on rebellion. The government has created a totally selfish coastal uprising, an uprising against a fisheries policy that threatens a few communities as well as people. One has managed to get a bundle of guerrillas, which have gradually spread around more parts of the country, because of the centralization of public services and health. One has a municipal uprising after delivering poorer and poor budgets to the municipalities year by year. One has a nutritional uprising after losing the status of significant resources for nutritional development. The list is long, and it seems that we are getting two types of articles in this debate. It's those who pretend to be good and super, and that there's great optimism because of government policy. And then the rest of us, who stick to what's in the papers, and the uprising that actually moves around the people, and take it seriously, like proper democrats trying to follow what people think about this, and whether it's a good social development. What this government is building on is an idea that the central government always knows best. It always knows best how to do things. Locality doesn't matter much. It's the central government's opinion that's always wisest. It also builds on the idea that the big is always best – big units and big conditions are always best, and the small is always bad. That's the starting point. A small organization must offer a few. Of course, the evaluations, the hard facts, show that large units actually don't lead to anything good. The evaluation of the aggregation of higher education institutions and universities has begun to substantiate. What has been the result? Poor colleges and colleges. Cool facts in areas by area undermine this idea, but it is passed on anyway, as if it were an ideology and nothing that had anything to do with reality. This reminds me of the Holberg piece Erasmus Montanus, where the peasant student has read Latin and logical reasoning and has come far away from the peasant society he came from. He comes back and sees a community that has only unknown and superstitious. Criticism of it is called by the Council of State to talk down the districts. I believe that the Council of State knows that it is the opposite that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e775	Today is the third anniversary after Sunday evening that Bodø/Glimt takes serial gold. We northerners are cheering over the super team. I'm assuming that the rest of the country does too. Congratulations so much on the serial gold, Bodø/Glimt! This top position is well deserved. It does so amazingly well that Bodø/Glimt, finally, is the first Norwegian team to take gold in the Elite series. Thank you, Bodø/Glimt forever! Why is it so special that a Northern Norwegian football team wins the Elite Series, maybe some people think. Then they don't know the story. The Nordic layers have had more than a long winter, long distances and poor weather to wear. For a long time, the Norwegian Football Association refused to participate in the Cup and Series Championships. It was only in 1963 that all Norwegian teams were allowed to qualify for the Cup, and it was not until 1972 that Norwegian teams were allowed to qualify for the top series. North Norwegian football had to fight not only on the track, but also against a deeply unfair serial system, until 1979. What does the injustice in the serial system have to do with the district message, some people might think. Now, the rules are the same for everyone. But the rules of the game or the laws are not the same for everyone in this country. This year, the Mountain Law and the Mountain Governments are 100 years old, and the Prime Minister sent an anniversary greeting to the mountain government on that occasion. Local government must ensure good governance, said the Prime Minister. She underlined that mountain governments represent a local and knowledge-based management of our common land resources, and that mountain governments are doing an important job. I fully agree with the Prime Minister and would like to congratulate the mountain governments so much on the anniversary. The Prime Minister also wanted the mountain governments to be happy with the next 100 years. The Nordics must also manage the state's land. The principle of local government cannot apply only in Finnmark, Middle Norway and South Norway. The government has to let justice prevail. We're also going to have local administration of our generals. On 8 June 2017, the Stortinget asked the government to investigate the same use of the mountain law in Northernland and Troms as south of the Nordic border. It's not done. But after 100 years, this law is not equal to everyone. This injustice must be destroyed. Nordland and Troms must also have the chance of their own sustainable exploitation of natural resources. It also provides positive ring-effects for local communities and is fully in line with the intention of the district communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e786	It is always nice when someone has football greetings from the pulpit, so I can congratulate Bodø/Glimt on the gold. And since Brann couldn't make the gold this year, we'll be glad that there was a mountaineer on the wooden bench. It was a good comparison the previous representative had on a level playing field. That's what my post will also be about. In the case of taxes on wealth, there is absolutely no level playing field. There is a bit of a feeling that a local Norwegian owner is playing football against Bodø/Glimt, that one is not on the same footing as foreign owners. In the Corona situation, we see that many companies have faced challenges. I think there's a big difference between the inhabitants and the employees if the owner is local, is part of the community and is one that has a generation perspective, than if it's a owner from Sweden, the United States or Cyprus who owns the local businesses. Therefore, it is unlikely that we in Norway have created a system that does not have a level playing field for a local Norwegian owner, and this is an important district issue. It is very important for the districts that local owners who are occupied by their homes and occupied by the jobs should have a level playing field with foreign owners. Therefore, I do not understand why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre make this wealth tax debate become a struggle between the rich and the poor and nerdy during an enviable debate. When it's actually about having owners who provide local workplaces, you should stay too good to pull that card and play all the time that this is envy in the public word change. The party of progress would have preferred that we had removed the entire property tax. There's one thing about taxing surplus when a company is doing well, and I think most people are adherents to sharing the value creation, but the wealth tax is also about measuring the taxes on losses. What you do is you lose your equity from your businesses. Who would like to lose their capital out of district work and weaken their businesses and, in addition, make it more profitable to be foreign owners? At least not the Progress Party - we want us to have competitive conditions for Norwegian owners. Therefore, the property tax is an ultimatum. Therefore, he should not call it that; he should have a hot criminal tax for being Norwegian owner. We pay tribute to those who take the initiative and today have suggested that one should be more clear that this tax should be removed because there is a tax on both deficits and excesses and an untimely double and triple taxation. We would like to remove the state part first, so that municipalities can compete to have good framework conditions. Then once again, with which I launch this debate, I will draw Sture Pedersen to Bø. He has done more for the wealth tax than anyone else, by going ahead. We pay tribute to Bø, and we pay tribute to other local initiatives, for we must put this tax to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e803	First, I would like to make it clear that I would like to be asked by the Council of State of the United Kingdom to accuse me of lying when I quote the Ministry of Finance's answer to budgetary question No. 198, where they conclude that Oslo has had an increase of 4,500 state jobs, Trondheim on 3,191 and Bergen on 3,165. Either the department has done a bad job, or the others here in the hall need to be corrected. So for my post. Centralisation of people is not a law of nature. It's about political choices. If one looks at the statistics on population growth in the municipalities from 2005 to 2019, one can see clearly that in 2005, when Erna Solberg resigned as a municipal minister, we had a decline in 249 municipalities. In 2013, there were only 112 municipalities that had a decline, and in 2019 it was ‘all-time high’, with 291 municipalities that had a decline in population. It shows that politics works. Centralisation policy also works. In order to counteract centralisation, we need a policy that will enable people to live, work and live good lives throughout Norway. The centre party will therefore work to secure urban growth agreements, and we will have an active district policy with the aim of bringing the whole country into operation. We need to ensure that we have a transport policy for the whole country with safe highways, a good ferry and boat services and collective services. In addition, good communication with good Internet access is needed. There must be an end to the starvation of municipalities and counties forcing them to drop out of school. Part of the development of district municipalities must give better local self-government rights, for state overrun and regulation in the form of restrictions in areas such as land planning, motor traffic, mutilation of predators, etc. does not allow local authorities to develop. Whereas it is necessary to end the practice of the safeguard provisions in such a way as to prevent the development of nutrition in many areas; That is why the Central Party refers to its proposal where we ask the government to revise state guidelines that prevent local self-government and development opportunities in the districts. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Central Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The regional reform has given the county a greater role as a regional development actor. Unfortunately, this is combined with a halving of regional policy instruments. This, of course, does not depend on hopping.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e818	We have a government that has spent its seven years in thorough centralization. They have joined together the counties and created some units that no one understands anything, among other things. The fold, which is an upconstructed, remarkable phenomenon. They have centralized the police and closed 126 LEN offices, and many of those who remained, who were to be strengthened, have only opened two to three days a week. They have centralised higher education, they are centralising the district courts in such a way that a number of courts have been closed down as maritime courts, and they have not least centralised state jobs. But now everything is going to be fine, because now we are going to have a two-part division of district policy – a two-part division between coast and inland. In fact, this idea is not mentioned in the district notice, and I listened carefully to it, but it was also not mentioned in the State Council's posts for the Stortinget, and now I understand that the reason is that this is a government strategy that should not be made visible to the Stortinget. So we have a minority government that is not interested in sharing a whole new initiative in district policy with the public and the Storting. But the right will now divide District Norway into two. And then we have to expect to get some answers about what's in it. What does it mean to divide between coast and inland? What's the content of that? If it's completely uncontented, just a mouthpiece and just something someone's made up, then one should also put the thought away, because we already have a district policy scope that's defined, among other things. through the differentiated employer fee, and we should not launch anything that troubles that system and troubles that area. Then we can also get into trouble with maintaining the system, which is of great value to private business across the districts. Then I want to mention something else, because the Council of State was standing here accusing one of my co-representatives of not being true. However, the representative Heidi Greni referred to the answer from the Ministry of Finance to a question that the Ministry of Local Affairs has prepared, which shows that there has been an increase in government jobs between 2013 and 2019, but not only that, there has been a very strong centralisation of state jobs within the regions. In Trøndelag there have been 3,200 new state jobs, and 3,191 of them have come to Trondheim. That means that someone's lost. And then it's like Nærøy has lost, Steinkjer has lost, Snåsa has lost and Middle Gauldal has lost, and then one also loses power as a district because one depends on the type of knowledge jobs that state jobs often are. It's a confession that the Council of States can at least take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e827	No one can sell goods without having customers to sell to, no one is making money on any of the things you make, without a market asking for it, and no one gets a job without the need for more jobs. In other words, it is obvious that the more customers you can sell to on equal terms and the greater the market place and the demand, the more goods need to be produced, and people get a job. This is particularly important in the districts. So it's an overall business life that is underpinning the demand that we defend and fence the EEA Agreement. This applies to all parts of the whole of Norway. The worst companies in Norway's crickets and hooks know is uncertainty. Many of them feel this right now. Nevertheless, if the Centre Party had had come to grips with its vision, a vision which, of course, would not even have noticed their own voters supporting it, they would have done everything they can to create precisely this uncertainty, and I am of course talking about the Central Party's desire to get us out of the EEA Agreement as soon as possible. In debates about taxes on our Norwegian company owners, I tend to challenge my co-debateants from the Workers' Party to whom in Norwegian business they have spoken when they believe that an increase of 7 billion. Tax is the right policy now. Today I have to ask my colleagues from the Central Party the same thing, just that it is the EEA agreement that is the question. In the most uncertain times of several decades, where European cooperation helps us through a pandemic, and where the European economy is inextricably linked to our own – at that time the Centre Party will tear away the whole foundation of export and value creation in the districts. So who's the Central Party talking to in the business world? Can the centre party mention one manager of a corner stone company that is dependent on exports, which believes this to be correct? I haven't met anyone in the district who thinks it's a good idea to cut ties with our biggest and most important market, and especially not now. So, of course, the answer tends to be a new and better deal than what we have today. Well, brexit doesn't provide exactly predictability for British businesses, and for district workplaces, it's the worst uncertainty. And it creates the Centre Party every day with its resistance to the EEA – a resistance that is, moreover, considerably more audible here in the Chamber than with their representatives in the district. But maybe it's the central power of the Center Party that doesn't listen to the grassroots.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e839	One quality of Norway is that it lives people throughout the country. But in order for it to live in people throughout the country, there must also be homes throughout the country. In many district municipalities there may be a risk of building a new dwelling. A builder may risk the construction costs of a new dwelling far exceeding what the dwelling would be worth if it had to be sold. What will the district minister actually do to reduce the economic risk of building new housing in the districts? At least we can't find the answers here today. The red-green government took the districts seriously and worked actively for living settlements. This is why we have been focusing on housing in the districts to stimulate the increased supply of different types of housing and to find strategies to increase the movement of the housing market. The experience with the project was increased competence in municipalities and good knowledge sharing. From 2012 to 2014, 284 new dwellings were built in the bet municipalities and in 2014 115 additional grants were granted. We are proposing four new housing policies today: We want to use the House Bank more actively to facilitate housing in the districts. Provision must be made to reduce the risk of residential construction. We're going to give starter loans to more people. Starting loans shall be available to ordinary young people and shall be assessed by income and wealth. This is how we can prevent the inequalities in the housing market from increasing further. Then we will introduce rental-to-owner models with funding through the House Bank for disadvantaged people in the housing market. Municipalities must be encouraged to use rent-to-ownership as a principle in local housing social planning and design, and the Workers' Party will contribute to the establishment of several non-commercial rental dwellings. Better provision is needed for initial start-ups. The Workers' Party wants municipalities to facilitate municipal plots and reasonable housing for first-time start-ups and for the construction of student housing. Housing is beside work, education and health the most important thing for people's well-being. The working party believes that it is a public responsibility that everyone should have access to a good quality housing. Both the State and the municipality must contribute to the construction of adequate housing in all parts of the country. There are several instruments that can be used to achieve the objective of access to good housing for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e858	Norway has changed significantly over long periods of time and with varying governments. In 1946, half of Norway’s population served in scattered areas and the rest in towns and cities. Today is 82 pst. of the population of the country's 990 towns and cities. This centralization, which the Center Party likes to call it, has happened over several generations, and not once when the Center Party put in government, it was able to reverse this development. In 2006, the then municipal minister from the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, presented a big message, «Heart for the whole country». The policy did not come very well: 9 000 annual farmwork was laid down, 336 schools in the districts were laid down, and 4 hospitals lost their emergency function, to mention something. Population growth in the five largest cities was also significantly greater than in the rest of the country. At least we can now see that this trend has reversed in several of the largest cities. For example: The mountains have the growth stopping all the way up. What we're seeing today is that the growth force in Norway as a whole is not just about state jobs, the number of post offices, the number of loonsmen's offices, or the number of municipal houses for that part. It is about competitiveness, about competitive advantages such as lower taxes, lower taxes. It is about access to markets and access to resources. It is about less state regulation and more local self-government in spatial planning. It is about infrastructure, and it is not least about competence and labour. It's time to process this big message, and it's in many ways some benefits from it. One of the most important is that one of the NOUs referred to in the Storing Communication, ‘The Importance of Economic Life for Living and Sustainable Local Communities’, has already been completed. This NOU makes recommendations on what is going to happen in order to achieve growth and development in business across our country. I have already mentioned several of the measures. It is also high time that the country's thousands of smaller towns and cities took responsibility for regional development. Only this way can it be possible to counteract some of the dominance of the big cities. Attractive towns and towns have important functions, attract people and businesses and contribute to development in their area. Norway needs several such power centres to support growth and development in the surrounding districts. Good urban centres are in themselves a good asset and can also help companies to win the competition for labour with the right skills. It's useless to fight all forms of centralization, as the Center Party does in opposition, but as they historically renounce as soon as they're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e871	We who live and live in the districts depend entirely on well-functioning transport routes. When this government took over power from the red-greens in 2013, there was a huge lag on the necessary upgrading of infrastructure. The railway was under way, and roads were built piece by piece and divided over a long period of time. Over the last seven years, the government has given a very high priority to transport. We've been reforming the whole way of thinking about trafficking and creating New Veier AS. With the draft budget for 2021, the budget for transport has almost doubled since the government joined. It's been a good policy. The initiative has been visible throughout the country, with new bridges and new road sections. Our transport policy helps to bind the country together, we build roads and railways at a pace that never before, and the whole country is involved in planning infrastructure – because things are connected, and good transport solutions are a prerequisite for people to live, live and work throughout the country, and for us to be able to further develop our business in the districts. Finnmark has had high economic growth, and the growth in the northernmost state has been highest compared to other municipalities. This is a development that we've been very proud of, and it testifies to the fact that the industries that are located in the county have had high growth. Much of the growth has occurred in export industries such as marine industry, oil and gas. Therefore, the E6 Women's Party is important for Finnmark to have a safe connection with the rest of the country. Finnmark is entirely dependent on good transport solutions and on the EEA Agreement, which is an export motorway that ensures free trade in goods, predictability and thousands of jobs. We must keep all winter roads open so that the fish come to the dinner table in Germany, Poland and Belarus without undue delay. So why the Center Party wants to scrap the EEA Agreement is a mystery to me and many people in this room. The EEA Agreement is a prerequisite for the export to our largest market. We who sit in this room must distance ourselves from protectionist attitudes based on assumptions that everything was better before, and that we should be self-sufficient. Norway is dependent on exports and has always been dependent on trade with other countries. Growth and development are going to happen across the country, and we're going to use the whole country. Then we must also have market access. Inland and coastal areas face different challenges, and it is therefore important that the government develop a more adapted industrial policy that is specific to inland and coastal areas. That's why the government is going to put forward a new strategy for this in the spring, and I really look forward to it coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e884	Some of the most important things that can be done to achieve regional development are to facilitate the creation of jobs, because in jobs there is optimism and hope for the future, there is development and growth. With jobs, there will be money for cultural and leisure activities. There will be baby carriages in the streets. There will be activities in construction sites where digging machines and hammers are right. And with the hammers we build the good communities where people like and want to live. Otherwise, when the workplaces disappear, it becomes pessimism. People move, and windows that used to have lights are covered with grey paper. It must be cut in the provision of culture, in everything that creates well-being and joy. And get the hell out of here, get the fuck out of here. If we are to facilitate jobs throughout Norway, there is a lot of work that needs to be done. The district message points to traffic and an efficient infrastructure. She points to digitisation and the ability to acquire knowledge and skills where people live and cage. But what is perhaps most important is a culture that says yes, that allows local government and community to participate in the value creation that is taking place. We need to say yes to innovation, to development and to conversion yes to inversion yes to see possibilities beyond restrictions yes to firefighters and founders, to those who want to get something for Today, in Political Quarters, we heard about a government that wanted to further strengthen district policy by building up under the strength of the different qualities that our parts of the country have — where the coast produces its qualities and its hinterland. We seek to find the means of working for people to create good lives throughout the country. Unfortunately, the reception from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party was waiting – instead of being a little curious about what could be in such a grip, they are hammering on with rhetorical flakes in a familiar style and judging the action north and down before one has seen what's in it, and they continue to blackmail what's happening in District Norway. When we took over the rule of the country, we survived a bow that was hard to turn around, which had grown firmly in yesterday's solutions. Yes, it has been demanding, and we see that people are tired of reform. But it was absolutely necessary. We want to build up, and we want to raise up. This district announcement shows a belief in the personal initiative, in the creativity of people living in the districts, and in jobs and yes-culture – knowing that this is what creates good communities and good districts throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e923	The President notes that «flakes» have previously been mentioned as an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e928	Most people who need health care get it first in their municipality. That's why it's important that we have a good community health service, where children meet an open door at a health nurse, and where pregnant women meet a midwife in their own municipality. For this reason, the government has strengthened the school health services and health centres by over 1.3 billion. NOK since we took over in 2013. At the same time, we also need to think about new things to solve tomorrow's challenges. We need more new technology when we become less active per pensioner. New technology provides the opportunity to provide equally good, if not better, health care to people where they live. Therefore, the welfare technology programme is important and will continue next year. But we also need more warm hands that provide care throughout the country, and that of course also applies in maternity care. People will meet with security and competence when a new life comes to the world, regardless of where you live. Norway is one of the safest countries in the world to be born, and it should still be. The birthing people are more satisfied with the offer now than they were before, fewer are injured during birth. We know that's important when we know that more women choose to wait longer to have their first child. One of the most important things that happened is that the requirement to have midwife competence in your own municipality has been reintroduced after the red-greens in their time removed it. This has led to an increase of 60 pst. in the number of midwifery works in the municipalities since 2015. It is important to have safe and good follow-up from the beginning to the end of pregnancy. Although a lot has been done, of course, there is a lot that can be done better. There has been a great impression of hearing about the working day of the midwives, and there are just stories from those who have caused the government to reduce a rapid-working sample, including the midwives, who have made good proposals for changes that the government is in the process of following up. Of course, this also applies to the accompanying services of pregnant women who live a while away from the maternity ward and have a great need for it. Although there is a lot that can get better, the horrors of poor birth care around Norway are not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e943	I have noticed that representatives from SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre today have to a great extent spent their time talking about the tool for business, and that is good. They have talked about local economy – we will probably have more opportunities to discuss it as we get beyond. That's a little bit different. Our starting point, of course, is that the municipality economy in Norway is good. I want to remind you that if we go back before the corona, we had a record low unemployment. We had as good as full employment, and business went so far as to suck all over the country. The potentials are there, and they're going to wake up again when the corona is gone. Where it's buttering, on the other hand, is on part of the offer that the municipalities are able to give. I believe that we cannot have a district policy debate without looking at the municipal structure and the ability of the municipalities to settle on the very good jobs in the public sector. It is an important contribution to building communities. Based on the generalist principle, it's the smallest municipalities that define in many ways how many tasks we can spend on the municipal sector. If you think that we had had a more sustainable and stronger municipal sector that could actually take on more tasks, you could really talk about building jobs in the public sector. On the day the municipalities could take some more of the planning work, the day they could take part of environmental protection work, the day they could take a larger part of it, for example. local land management, which is relevant in my area, on the day they might take, for example: high school, that day we really wanted to talk about moving power and tasks out to the municipalities to an extent that would fit in a completely different way from the small discussion we have about state jobs, on which I feel quite certain, because the government has provided a lot better – bourgeois governments before this too – than the red-green governments have shown that they can. Better skills, more career opportunities and better professional environments are what really matters in order to strengthen local communities. I feel safe about that, and then we must be able to carry out a municipal reform for those who need it the most, namely the smallest municipalities, and it is largely those who have fallen out of it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e956	Norway had not been Norway without the use of natural resources. Living districts are based on the use, management and processing of the resources available, but also active choices that have made this possible and attractive. Norway is a forested country, and for generations it has given prosperity and development throughout the country. Now it's time to contribute to an active investment in and more use of forest resources. We should take out something more effective, and we should make sure that Norwegian works that are already taken out, processed and developed into products around the country, rather than going on trains out of the country. Forests have a high potential to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, but also to create new Norwegian green jobs across the country. So we're facing a big shift in business – from fossil to green carbon. In our tradition, all major industrial poker teams that have brought Norway forward have been an interaction between private capital, public effort, framework conditions and a strong trade movement. That's something we're going to build on. Unfortunately, in the case of forests and bioresources, Norway is losing ground, in the middle of a time that should have been a reindeer for the industry, for the green and the renewable. We're losing terrain, which we shouldn't. Therefore, today, proposals for green investment companies for the development of green carbon technology enterprises are being promoted in the context of this Communication, enterprises that will largely be located around the country, close to the resources. It is a matter of helping to establish a private – and I stress it – because today they are not going to be established and become profitable through contributions from such a company. The last example that shows the need for such a green investment company is found in Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs in Halden, which recently announced the closure of 25 p.m. of the capacity of the paper machines. It's a company that doesn't intend to lay down to die, but has plans to develop new green products. But this requires capital, capital, the three-processing industry today is missing. Therefore, we need a government tool that sets up long-term risk loan capital and, if necessary, equity. A green investment company shall invest in companies that take a leading and strategic role in the development of new green carbon-based solutions and technologies. It shall be the trigger for the implementation of development activities and shall be invested in activities that can generate competitive returns in a long-term perspective throughout the country. As the Minister of Industry said here in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago, it is not possible to leave the switch of Norwegian industry to the market and to the enterprises themselves. Norwegian forests and wood industry have never been weaker. This requires that the State be aware of its responsibilities by providing tools to implement migration and secure jobs and use of resources. It will benefit the national economy and will contribute to viable communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e971	I will first be allowed to use this opportunity to congratulate Bodø/Glimt on the serial gold in football, and think that against all odds a serial gold comes to Nordland and North Norway, is proof that if you're small, it doesn't mean that you can't do big things. Being small, but nevertheless doing great things has characterized Norwegian districts at all times. There are small communities that have created a marine industry that creates hundreds of billions of export values, with small communities like Lovund, Herøy, Sørarnøy, Steigen and Stokmarknes at the head. It is small industrial sites such as Mo i Rana, Mosjøen and Glomfjord that have created industrial ventures based on local resources and pure Norwegian power. The postman’s political editor, Kjetil Alstadheim, asked in a comment earlier this fall if more jobs could save the edge, and answered briefly and firmly no to this. It is harmful to put such light end-of-life stamps on District Norway, as the Oslo press obviously has a significant power of dispatch to central politicians. There are some things that indicate that the government parties have read about the goodness of Alstadheim. For many decades population developments in most coastal and district municipalities have stagnated. Political Norway has been well aware of developments and has been equally familiar with the future forecasts of the SSB. Instead of realizing that the political toolbox is rich in instruments that can reverse or reduce a negative development, we encounter what is reminiscent of resignation. Apart from the fact that a lot of new roads have been built in Norway for the last seven years, the government has resigned from business neutrality and passive ownership. All research shows that there is a clear link between where you study and where you become a resident. It may seem that the government has confused reformers with social development. When the representative Ebbesen from this pulpit uses his measured speaking time to attack the municipality of Nordland instead of taking a settlement with e.g. His own government's closure of the Nesna campus, it's a total abdication from his own policy. For over a hundred years at Nesna, there has been a small number of teachers, community builders, entrepreneurs and district optimists who have contributed to the lack of Swedish conditions in the district policy. They should have been allowed to keep doing that. When this survey indicates that equal opportunities for education are a prerequisite for residence throughout the country, this representative looks forward to the government translating its own words into action and restoring a full education offer at Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e986	Today, we are discussing the district notification and how we can strengthen the role and position of the districts for viable communities. It is then an extra look to see that two government councils, the Minister of Knowledge and the district minister of the Right-Original Government themselves, contribute to further centralisation and reduction of important offers close to people. In Trøndelag there are 32 secondary schools, and in a meeting with the Trøndelag County Municipality earlier this autumn, it was briefed on the decline in the number of applicants and pupils in all secondary schools in Trøndelag outside Trondheim. When the right-wing government comes against all the professional input from student organisations, teacher organisations, KS, the research community and county councils that school owners do the opposite, it is directly unmusical and shows that the government does not listen to the objections. This will undermine the breadth of the vocational offer in many secondary schools and in several cases the very existence of several minor secondary schools in District Norway. This also affects industry in the districts in the long term its access to skilled labour. The combination of the right and left removing the right to go to their own secondary school, as well as the opening of several commercial private schools funded by the same school pot, will result in the loss of professional services, fewer apprentices and most likely the closure of single schools in the districts. The Labour Party will create a new start for Norway after the pandemic. Then we have to put the whole country into action. In Trøndelag, there is a broad and massive majority for a school policy for everyone – not just the few. In meetings with students, employees and elected representatives from Selbu, Røros, Frøya, Hitra, Heim, Inner Fosen, Åfjord, Ørland, Malvik, Gauldal, Melhus and Oppdal, there is absolutely no one who will introduce a purely characterized recording at their primary schools. Feedbacks are clear that secondary schools are important resource centres with a wide range of competence jobs. A reduction in the provision of vocational training and the closure of student places will enhance the depopulation and loss of youth and jobs in districts. Both Vestland, Vestfold, Telemark, Viken, Agder, Inland, Nordland, Trøndelag, Troms and Finnmark have adopted a form of secondary schooling principle. When the Minister of Knowledge, with the support of the district minister and the rest of the right-wing government, will scrap an important and well-functioning model, which the county councils have developed over many years in close cooperation with host municipalities and local businesses, it is directly arrogant. In January, researchers concluded that free choice of school gave the most segregation in Oslo, greater differences in the capital, teachers telling about schools that are getting browner and browner, and other schools that are getting whiter and whiter. One thing is certain: when the Workers' Party comes into position after the 2021 elections, we will change this – we will listen to the students, the superiors, the teachers and the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1005	In the Right we often say that good communities are created from below. We believe in the value of people building their own neighbourhood, and the district communication clearly shows how important business is to create living and sustainable communities. That is why it was encouraging today to hear at Political Quarters that the opposition is still trying to create uncertainty about the differentiated employer’s fee — one of our main regional instruments. If there is one thing we agree with, continuing the differentiated employer fee. It is almost tempting to ask whether both the Center Party and the Working Party are suffering temporary memory loss. They talk as if they haven't been in position, and as if global urbanization didn't go on their guard. The representative of Trellevik is quite right when he recalls that over the period 2005–2013, 9 000 farms disappeared, 336 fewer schools in the districts, fewer hospitals with emergency facilities and a severe reduction in agricultural land. Population growth in the five largest cities was several times higher than in the rest of the country. You have to ask yourself, how credible is it that a new red-green regime should reverse the centralization trend? There's nothing of their last period that points to it. I would also like to say something about competence in this debate. We know that many communities are experiencing recruitment problems and lack of skills today. And that deficiency will intensify without any good action. But I react when the opposition parties criticize the government for lack of initiative in this field. I would like to remind you that it was under the Solberg Government that the vocational schools, the regions' own industrial vocational education, were strengthened and elevated as a higher education. It was under the Solberg Government that the Life of Competence Reform was put in place throughout life to strengthen the work of the whole population to have the relevant competences and to be able to participate more in the labour market. It was under the Solberg Government that the regions were given greater responsibility for regional competence policy, that the Troms and Finnmark competence pilot scheme in the north to Agder in the south was established, and that the escalation of flexible continuing training started. And it's under the Solberg Government that education support schemes through the State Loan Fund have become more flexible and make it easier for individuals – and especially adults with family and jobs – to take on further education. It's important when this government launched this spring's educational promise with a huge investment of 1.6 billion. to increase the capacity of secondary schools, colleges, colleges and universities, with the provision of skills for the unemployed and on leave. It makes a good contribution to a sustainable community. Then I have to say that in the previous article I forgot to take up the suggestions that the Right is part of – so I do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1025	The representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1030	The representative Njåstad said something important, but he concluded it was a mistake. He said that no matter where he was traveling in the districts, he was told that transportation was the most important thing when it came to the district problem. Of course, he is absolutely right about that, but there are some ‘but’ here: the government has for many years, with two Progress Party state councils at the head, for a complete anti-diversity policy. That's my statement, and I can show you some examples. So while they're using billions of large, environmentally hostile and often oversized highways, often in central roads, we have the following situation, which the government can do with a few shillings, while celebrating New Roads AS: We have about 40,000 km of highway that has a 50-60 billion maintenance run. kr. Most people who are going out on the highways with their food transport are probably going through a country road first? At least that's often the way it is. Is it good rural policy to give priority to this? At the same time, there is a huge need for racial protection. The National Racial Protection Group has been talking about about about 70 billion. kr if we're going to secure our roads. The urgent need is between 15 and 20 billion. kr. The government has $1.9 billion. Total kr – it only covers as far as the price increase. So far on racial protection – is it good district policy? Is the Storting known that well over 100 miles by highway lacks yellow midstripe? A truck cannot meet another car on these narrow roads. That's the situation. This is about district policy – is it good district policy? In the middle of this, important state transport sectors are centralised. Traffic stations are being closed down. The model in the State Road Service changes, which means centralised program management in the divisional model created, etc. At the moment, when we have a debate in the Chamber on district policy, a notice in the NRC says that three out of four emergency services in the Coastal Agency should be closed, including: in Bergen. What is this thing? So the two offices in the West have to be dismantled. There's no big wind in the West, there's no very upset sea there either. This is contrary to good preparedness policy and is contrary to good district policy. Worst of all, I have not yet been able to see the reason for that. Anyway, to both Njåstad and Ørmen Johnsen, who boasted so much of blue transport policy: they're going to have big problems calling it district friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1047	I spoke with the rapporteur, Mr Sture Pedersen, on behalf of the Group of the European Right, this morning. He could tell that what he was most concerned about was not that the state withdraws, but that he gets to facilitate economic development in his municipality, and that the government strengthens the right of self-determination, and we have done so. While the Central Party was in government, the municipalities were denied six out of ten objections. Under the direction of this government, the municipalities are given eight out of ten objections. The great centralisation and relocation of the state's activity in Bø occurred while the Centre party was in government. While the Center Party was in government, several emergency functions were laid down. There were several dairy farms, several schools were laid down, and several moved to the cities. When you hear Marit Arnstad from this pulpit, she presents it as if centralization is something that has happened in a few years. There's a big urbanization going on all over the world. Centralisation in Norway has lasted for more than 60 years. Norway is the least centralised country in the Nordic region. What we see is that services are digitized, and while the Center Party is most concerned about questioning structures, systems and offices, all of Norway is digitized. With this government, access to high-speed broadband has been fivefold doubled. Now, when we give people the opportunity to bring in the equation on their cell phone or PC, they don't have to reach the Equator before midnight, as we had to in the past. Anybody want to go back there? Is there anyone who wants to go there that we have to force people with a long way to go to an office when you can do it on their cell phone? It is worrying to hear that the Centre Party is opposed to all developments, all modernisation, all simplification and improvement of services. It's all about making the districts as if it's not going well. When I'm out traveling and talking to people and businesses, I experience a huge onslaught, a willingness to create good communities and get things done. Then we have to make it right. One of the most important district policy measures we have is the differentiated employer charge. There is the government's ambition as stable as possible for the system, because we know it works so well. I see I have to make another post, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1062	It's just to press the button and draw, State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1067	I live in Nordre Follo, a newly merged municipality with almost 60,000 inhabitants. The nearest neighbor is Oslo, and soon has 700,000 inhabitants. In the summer I spend time in Helgeland, especially in the municipality of Nesna. Here, there are less than 2,000 inhabitants. There are three coastal municipalities, in fact, but it may not have been the shoreline of the Oslo Earth and the Bunnefjord government councils thought about when she wants to re-split the country. In my political work, I try to understand that our political solutions will fit all this tension – in the city and in the countryside, in large and small municipalities. Municipalities should have a state that plays a team, no matter how large the municipality is. We need to know the challenges of municipalities and provide solutions. The rapporteur, Mr Bø, has been mentioned several times during the day. I would like to draw up two competent Labour Party rapporteurs from just Nordre Follo and Nesna. They're actually called Hanne both, and I think they both know the feeling of a state that has left them. It gets very hollow that the Council of State is talking about the importance of decentralised education when the government has allowed the long tradition of education at Nesna to be shattered. Would the Council not want the district council and the coastal municipality of Nesna to remain viable? Why doesn't the state stand up for Nesna? The rapporteur, Hanne Davidsen, in Nesna, says to me: we have great natural resources and value creation within power, sea, fish, minerals and industry in our region, but we have far fewer study places and competence workplaces than other regions. We have a slogan: without education and learning, no industry and industry, Hanne tells and continues: we need higher education at Nesna to provide the region with the skills necessary to maintain housing, well-being and value creation. Nevertheless, the State of Nesna left. Northern Follo must be the government's dream municipality. Here is the rapporteur, Mr Opdan. Nordre Follo is composed of Oppegård and Ski and is a municipality without property tax. And you know what? It's bone tough. The merging municipalities have not received enough support to cover the hump costs involved in a merger. The inhabitants don't get the municipality we promised them. For local politicians, it is no longer about how to further develop the municipality, but what closures can be stopped. Are we going to save the health center or keep the nursing homes? Should we tighten up the leisure provision for children or the elderly? The state doesn't stand up for Nordre Follo either. The rapporteur, Mr Opdan, is concerned about tasks that are transferred without enough money. Now it's probably talkin'. We need a government that actually stands up for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1088	After listening to the representatives of the government parties, I must be allowed to quote Peer Gynt: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it; but do it! No, I don't understand that." What does the District Message say, and what does the government do? The government centralizes both noise and silence. The state is withdrawing, and the government points to the district industry as the rescue. However, important factors for the district industry are decentralised education, decentralised campers, housing and state jobs. The facts show that young people live where the education is – 70–80 pst. of them do it. And what does the government do? They drop teacher training on Nesna and nurse training in Lake Sandness and bottle the Helgeland coast for competence and youth. During the period 2013–2019, the government has decided to move or re-establish more than 1 220 jobs outside Oslo. Okay, but of the total increase of 21 259 state jobs since 2013, there are 92.4 pst. come in the south. Only one of 13 new jobs has arrived in North Norway, where the population falls quickly. The interaction between state and business jobs is important — at least in the districts. When the state workplaces are withdrawn, it helps to make people move. By the way, do you have good coverage after almost eight years of right-wing government? Depends where you live. Geographically, there's a big digital difference, so the answer depends entirely on where you live. The cover is 98 pst. in built-in strokes, but only 56 pst. has good cover in pig-grown strips. The result is less homely and much disability for nutrition and education when struggling with broadband coverage. A lot of money is spent on transport. Four-field highway and 110 km/h, but no one talks about four fields and 110 km/h in the north. If we are to count heads, passenger transport and shorter travel time, we must also count fishing heads and delays in the transport of food. Fresh fish are busy. However, the cost of loss of value due to road delays is not currently assessed when assessing new road projects by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1106	The excellent NRK documenter ‘UXA’ makes it clear how a society and a country are completely changed when the natural resources and values of production are concentrated on few hands. In the Midwest, Thomas Seltzer documents what happens to previously well-paid jobs in industry, which instead are characterised by social dumping. He documents how a rich and aloof business that previously created a cave to run a store, be a craftsman and create a future for families, is characterized by hopelessness and, rather, by a very negative view of the future. The money that previously circulated in communities has been taken over by large multinational groups. It is the logic of market ideology that many people have to compete to concentrate their wealth on a few hands. To use an expression from Norway: there is so much toothpaste out of the tube that it will not come back again. It was an expression from the Supreme Council of State of Hofstad Greece, before she became the Council of State, of how society was to be governed, and of the fact that arrangements that have created distribution and democratic governance were to be broken down, so that the Workers' Party could not rebuild it. It is explicitly stated that the laws that currently allocate the natural resources to several hands, the concession laws, are to be weakened and amended in order to give a more uncontrolled movement of property in Norway. It's the beginning of the same kind of development that we saw hurt that the Midwest has gone through. Power and production will then accumulate on a few hands, and less money will remain in the communities. It was this Right parliamentary leader who overlooked when he asserted that there was no problem that a large part of the forest land in Trondelag was to be sold to Germany, because he said that the forest is no matter where it is – it is in Norway. It might have been said by a similar person in the Midwest too – that the earth is still where it is, it is in the Midwest. But it is a poor comfort to all the workers who today do not have a wage to live on, a poor comfort to all the local business community who feel that the money has been taken out of their community and rather is concentrated on a few groups. We need a fairer Norway, we need a new large number.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1121	This government has implemented the necessary structural changes through, inter alia: police reform, road reform and the reform of universities and higher education institutions. The goal is better services no matter where people live. Our community needs to change in order to be preserved. When I hear the representative Sandtøen equate the historical developments in the United States with what is happening in Norway today, I have to say that it bears witness to a lack of history. I recommend that you read a book that actually describes this very well. The name of the book is ‘Hillbillyens klagsang’. It was today's call. What I wanted to talk about is that the digitization that we are now experiencing facilitates increased quality and access to state services, completely independent of every one in our country a cage. At the same time, digitisation reduces the need for physical presence and the number of states to be added. The government has shown that it is busy developing effective and modern state services, which benefit from technological opportunities, and which ensure that the population has access to basic and equivalent services throughout the country. The world experiences a spring solution of artificial intelligence. This opens up enormous possibilities, which could be smart, but perhaps also a little daunting – smart when we facilitate conscious and desired development, and frightening if you don't make sure you understand the evolution and grasp the possibilities. The message we are handling today shows that new technology is creating new opportunities for the districts. People and businesses are totally dependent on participating in digital development. They need it to create jobs and to live a good life. Thus, robust digital infrastructure is a crucial part of district policy. Our country is linked to the government's offensive investment in infrastructure, which also facilitates the rapid development of 5G. This is what we need in order for Norway to be able to reap the benefits of digitisation, but the public sector must also be involved. Innovation in the public sector has led to a management culture that enables digital transformation and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1132	Some of the government parties here are talking about the local economy as in the purest wake-up talks. But that's the way it is with other revival figures that talk about miracles, so no one has seen anything about it, which can confirm that the local economy is as good as you claim here from the government parties. It's directly wrong. So the municipal settlement for the fourth year was the worst in 15 years. For 2021, the government follows very well – to use that expression – when it adds up to what actually becomes a minus budget for the municipalities, which means that the municipalities have to cut into all the services we otherwise hear that the members of the government parties talk nicely about, and say it is important that it has to be good quality. But they don't say that municipalities should be able to deliver these good services. On the contrary, the government suggests that you have to cut services out there. We experience district uprisings and dissatisfaction. It is the biggest dissatisfaction from the districts towards a government since the last time Right in government, in 2004/2005. I remember very well when the rapporteurs, also from the Christian People's Party, were out there at the time and had a district uprising. Then it was quiet in the meantime, in the face of district uprisings, but now it's coming too far. This was mentioned here, with the guerrillas and other uprisings from the districts. Clearly, when you experience that the government has spent seven years screwing the centralization screw more and more tightly and giving an ever worse community economy because they give priority to money for things other than common well-being out there where people live. Then came the last thing, or that is two things, yesterday and today. One was that free choice of schools would now suddenly become a good district policy — something that everyone warns against. This means that the students who live in Ørje, where I live, may have to go to Ski or Moss, so increase the journey to their nearest high school by both three, four, five and six miles. It can't be good district policy. And it is strange that it is not mentioned in this announcement either – just as the district minister pulled off the hat this morning, in Political Quarter: a two-part division of District Norway, which suddenly had to solve all the problems, but no one has heard of, and which is nowhere in the position we are dealing with here today. It's a strange way to pursue district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1143	There's a lousy report going through the country. It is no longer just a town to land; it is now also the politicians who drink coffee with the people, against those who centralize in the capital. We're not going any further than to the United Kingdom to see what such thoughts can lead to. ‘Look to Norway’ – they are doing well without the EU, it was said. They were just supposed to be. Today, the United Kingdom can only dream of an agreement as good as us. Nevertheless, the Centre Party still believes in an alternative to the EEA Agreement. Looks like everything's going so much better. Vedum has let sports go in taking the cup of coffee on a Norwegian tour and warning against centralization. If the questions get too difficult, he just laughs them away. For the Center Party, building contradictions through simple rhetoric that is going to free up our feelings has become a strategy. The centre party seems to have forgotten that the global urbanisation trend was also on their guard. They fail to mention the disappearance of 9 000 farms between 2005 and 2013, the number of schools in the districts fell by 336, the number of hospital emergencies and the sharp reduction in agricultural land. But it doesn't fit into the story story. The centre party would not want to have a good debate with the facts. Before the 2013 elections, the Centerpartie came with a number of doomsday prophecies on behalf of Norwegian agriculture. Now we see that the closure of agricultural holdings has been severely slowed down. The average growth of agricultural production has more than tripled and the average redistribution of agricultural land has fallen by more than 30 pst. The center party called Nye Weier an air lock. This air lock has saved the state for 59 billion dollars. kr, and more road and track is built than ever. The smell of asphalt is good news for the districts. Yeah, I'm good in the districts. Nevertheless, the Centre Party continues to come up with half-truths and horrors, because the Centre Party is going to stop global centralization. Then it is less important that the message is not truthful, as long as it is in Norwegian, because when emotions are to be aroused, all coffee cups have to be used. It is worth noting that the Central Party intends to withdraw from the EEA Agreement, an agreement that ensures Norwegian companies access to their main market. It puts jobs at risk, and in that scenario, centralization will be our smallest challenge. We politicians cannot decide where to live, but we can facilitate growth, attractiveness and increased housing in the districts. We have done this by providing good framework conditions for businesses and a historical commitment on the road and track, because there are jobs that create lives in the countryside and that are, furthermore, the basis for welfare services and cultural services. The districts don't need any more coffee breaks and simple rhetoric from the Center Party. They need an active policy for growth and more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1162	Development of oil and gas-related industries in District Norway has been a goal for the Right since the enterprise started on Norwegian continental shelf. It means an incredible amount to the whole community today, but especially along the coast, where we find the largest number of jobs – in the South West, in the West and in the North along the coast. It's in many ways the tree of our entire welfare community. We know that oil nutrition won't last forever. We need new nutrients. The fact that the government is working on the big message, has completed two NOUs and is now working on strategies for emerging in new industries, we just have to develop – and would like to call it a tribute speech to the government. So it's about moving on. Even though Stortinget has put the big message aside because of covid-19 and not working with it, it is safe to see that the government actually prioritizes the districts and has worked with this message in spite of covid-19. So it's like, as many people have mentioned here today, there's a great need to make changes, just to get rid of bottlenecks to create new nutrients along the coast. It is safe to both know and record that the government is working with both the beach zone regulations and changes in planning and building laws. The strategy we're about to work on, I hope we can figure out whether there's a need for further changes. In 2016, the Solberg government tried to change the planning and building laws, just to increase the height of these bottlenecks, but we didn't get the bulk of this stuff with us at the time. Now, when I hear Mr. Greni here today, it's uplifting to see that maybe more parties than just the government parties are going to be able to support the Laws of Plans and Buildings on the ground. I appreciate that. It is really very alarming that the Workers' Party does not refer to the oil and gas sector in any of the 60 points they have listed in this setting. It's very fascinating, but at the same time they show a lot of other things. Among other things, they promote horse feeding. Horse nutrition and horsekeeping are important for very many people and a source of income for others. I would like to invite the case manager to read the government's guide, Horse as a Resource - Local Business Development. Then I must also take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the case spokesman on the cuscule licence after a great run and course on the Jarlsberg Travbahn earlier this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1176	I can join in the congratulations of the previous speaker to the representative of Lauvås, but I can also assure the previous speaker that the commitment to the horse industry has not gone beyond the commitment and efforts in the field of district communication. If I say that businesses and municipalities outside the country lack labour, and particularly relevant labour force, and that municipalities and businesses are unable to trigger the potential they have, and if I say that the demography out there means that fewer and fewer young workers have to take responsibility for more and more older people, do I then blackmail the situation? Today's debate may sound like that's what we're doing. And it's possible that it's black paint, but that's exactly what the government's message says. We just have to recognise that there are major changes in society and that we have some challenges in the districts. So the positioning parties should stay too good to characterize us and accuse us of black paint when we repeat the challenges the government itself has raised. I have to say that when I hear the government representatives here today, who are so satisfied with everything that is higher, bigger, longer and cost more than when the government Stoltenberg II crashed, and have no new measures to put on the table, which is mentioned in the message, I think it is quite self-satisfied. We can discuss many of the measures it has been referred to in the period that the government of Solberg has run, but the fact is that the developments we are debating here today have not changed, it continues at the same rate. And I agree with the speakers who have pointed out that this development also took place under the government of Stoltenberg II. That's right -- because it's a global megatrend. People have moved to cities since we invented the concept for approx. Nine thousand years ago. We are now facing some major challenges that we have to face, and that is the problem of the communication that has been presented: it does not debate it, it just describes the situation. What do we do with the evolution that, according to the United Nations, is approaching that 75 pst. of earth's population live in cities in the year 2100? Or, as I heard a scientist at a conference last year, that 80 pst. of earth's population live in the 600 largest cities? If we believe it is valuable that people live throughout the country – what strategies and measures do we intend to take? The digital revolution and the challenges and opportunities it brings, where the bond between labour and capital is dissolved, which makes people move to cities because that's where they want to live – what do we do with it if we think it's a value for people to live all over the country? How do we apply those possibilities in a positive way? And what do we do with climate change? How do we enable municipalities and places across the country to meet both adaptations to climate change and avoiding greater climate change than necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1195	The previous speaker is quite right. The climate is changing, and there is a broad political consensus that conversion is necessary to adapt society to become renewable. Both regulators and consumers around the world are increasingly demanding cutting emissions and want more environmentally friendly production of goods and services. In this image, the district industry is crucial for us to reach the goals we have seen. Norsk Industrie expects that the turnover related to green technology and industry will increase for years to come, and we note that enterprises in the district municipalities have a high impact in relation to environmental technology contributions from Innovation Norway. 45 pst. the volume allocated to the districts in 2019. Maritime sector is developing new environmental solutions for both hull and propeller design and new zero and low emission propulsion machinery. The Norwegian process industry uses new technologies to streamline its production and replace fossil inputs with renewables. Mineral nutrition, which we find in the districts, is decisive for a successful green shift. The same is true of agriculture, which takes its share of responsibility. Also travel, which now thinks green, in spite of major challenges these days, we find ourselves in the districts. Marine farming is an industry that takes seriously the green shift, including through the development of feed ingredients and the electrification of plants and workboats. Norwegian farmed salmon exports to the European market and, on delivery to slaughter plants, has emissions corresponding to 20 pst. in relation to European bovine animals. Increased production in the aquaculture industry can therefore help reduce global emissions. In addition, of course, jobs are related to energy production, which occurs where resources exist, where the wind fades and the water gives energy. But future energy production as a sea wind can also provide good district jobs. Districts play an increasingly important role in the transition to a more climate-friendly business. If we are to succeed in this, we must continue with the efforts we have made in digitisation, in effective public services and in well-functioning and reliable transport and logistics systems. This is the area where the Right has put in a lot of effort after we got into government, because here was a big dish that was left after years of red-green rule. The Norwegian district industry is boosting support and business-friendly policies on the way out of the corona crisis and out into the world with the green industry and our technology, not against stream policy with higher taxes and restrictive foundations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1212	We are in a difficult time, and many jobs feel unsafe, even though we can see the light in the tunnel with vaccines on the way and through safe management out of the crisis. In this way, we have a good starting point in Norway, compared to other countries. In North Norway, we have many opportunities for growth and development, and in the post-normalisation period, it will be important to pursue a yes policy that provides a basis for growth, exciting jobs and more legs to stand on. In this way, it is important that we remember the time before the Korona crisis, when unemployment was record low and the biggest challenge in the region was to get enough skilled labour, because that was what was happening in the north. Of course, there were, and still are, challenges, but systematic efforts on the part of the government on education and research remain, therefore, the most important step we can take to contribute to further growth and development. In my part of the country, we have received several thousand new places of study, support for study centres and the strengthening of decentralised education. One has taken many targeted measures to strengthen vocational training, whether it is a record increase in the apprenticeship grant, an industry programme to increase the qualification of key industries in the national community, strengthening the vocational schools as a professional higher education and the possibility of taking a professional letter at work, to mention something. And there's a lot more. But the point is clear: the commitment to education and vocational training is strong in our government and contributes to important replenishment in the north. I would also like to highlight the road effort in the north, which has contributed to the fact that the main roads have been given a real big boost in a short time, and together with Statnett's billion investment in network transmission from Northern and up to Finnmark, we are creating the basis for growth in the business world. At the same time, we have to admit that after many lean years the lag has not been solved in a few years with this government. Work must continue. The targeted effort and priority of knowledge, research, roads and good framework conditions for our Nordic jobs must be allowed to continue. It is the districts, the coast and North Norway that now do not need large tax increases and less investment on the road and research and education, which are notified from the left. So there's reason to call out a warning, for the alternative budgets presented, reveals the big plan of tax returns and election promises that are far from being funded. When priorities are taken, we quickly return to old red-green rhythms, with decay on the roads, focus on school food rather than teachers, and a new piece of rest in research. That's not what we need in North Norway. We need more investment as today, a further stepping up towards the county roads and continuing to strengthen education and vocational training. That's how we meet the opportunities in the north and in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1229	I follow this debate and record what we know well from before, and that is that government policy is influenced by three pillars that affect this debate. One is a clear distribution of the increased value of society’s financial resources — the entire tax debate and the wealth tax debate. I'll leave it now, because it's not an opportunity to spend time on, but I'll just mention it as a basis. The second is the entire philosophy of privatisation, of course, and the third is centralization. These three factors all work in one direction. It affects us all, but it affects our territories in particular. Norway is Norway because we have districts – living districts. It is strange to note, when we sit and listen to the Right Representatives and the Council of State, that there are not only questions about the development of centralisation as a consequence of a liberal economic philosophy, but that is also the consequence of wanting centralisation. It is a new feature of the debate on rural policy in Norway that emerges from this debate and, of course, increases the distinctions in a very clear way. For what is that really threatening? Well, as several of my colleagues have been here from the pulpit, it threatens a national value that is about housing and good growth conditions throughout the country. That is what is threatened – by the sum of the policies of the right. It is about the view of the state, which is also very clear as a dividing line in this debate. The state will take responsibility for everyone, but especially for those parts of the country that need the most, and that's the districts. The State shall be the friend of the districts and shall not be perceived as its opponent. Now, when we travel around the country and hear what is being said around, there is a contrast, because the population out there no longer sees ‘town and country hand in hand’ as a real part of social development, because they feel abandoned by the state. This stands as one of the key prerequisites for correcting the developments we see, to which the right-wing government has contributed, namely the view of the state. Finally, I would like to say that I see this as quite serious: it destroys many people's view of themselves and self-image in the districts, because they are abandoned by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1236	Over the course of its reign, the Right System has centralised the centralisation of Norway. They've been totally suspended in larger structures and larger units. They have gone systematically from sector to sector within general government and the deprived community for government jobs and partly for income. They're not so happy to hear today, but it has to be said. So it's so nice that the Right is so busy with the Center Party. It's nice. In fact, they're going into both positions and people, and there's no way how old-fashioned, backward, backward and hopeless the Center Party is. Yeah, even if we like to drink coffee, it's nice if we're to believe the representative Hagerup. And not only that, but we also have to add opinions like that. that we will stop ‘global centralisation’ – what it is now. I'm not going to say «to the Right», but I hope the Right is aware that when they try to stamp the Center Party in that way, they also stamp everyone who is now sitting around and frustrated by what is happening in their own district, and in their own community, and the demise they feel that things are centralized. But what we have called for today is among other things. if the Council of State can tell you more about what this two-partage – which seems like one has invented in a few days – really means. Now I see that there has been a press release this morning from the department, but still it is not possible to get any idea what this two-way is actually going to mean. The centre party is a little concerned, and we are curious about this – the representative of Eskeland accused me of not being curious, but I am curious about this – because we wonder if this will do anything with the means we have today for the district councils, and whether this will create uncertainty about the differentiated employer's fee. Governments often like to refer to Frøya. I think Frøya is much more concerned with keeping a low employer's fee and getting more from the Maritime Fund than they are with being interpreted into a kind of new division between sea and inland. So one has to be concerned that the high-density thinking about new instruments does not mean that one gets any risk associated with the instruments that it has today, especially the differentiated employer fee. We know that next year the European Union will review and review its district policy, and we have no need for that system to come into play. Otherwise, I'm still waiting for the Council of State to say something about her accusing my co-representative of untruth, and that she'd like to apologize to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1249	When you hear the debate in this Chamber today, the most prominent is all the declarations of love for scattered areas. It also feels like real love from all sides of the hall – and it's good. Listening to some of the debaters, it may seem as if someone is opposed and someone for the districts. Of course it's not like that. Let's take a look at the results. We can, for example: look at population developments: has any government ever succeeded in increasing the proportion of population in scattered areas in Norway? The answer is no for all governments Norway has had as a free nation — and in union with Sweden. When was the last time any government succeeded in having more people in the districts when they left, than when they joined? The answer is 2005, when the Bondevik II government went off – randomly composed of the same parties that are currently in government. Before that, one might ask. Then there was the government Nygaardsvold, the president's party, not Gerhardsen, after two attempts, Torp, Lyng, Borten, Korvald, Bratteli, Nordli, Brundtland I, II and III, Willoch, Syse, Jagland, Bondevik, on the first attempt, Stoltenberg on the first or second attempt, or to the extent that the government that sits today. What happened when the centerpart put his hand on the steering wheel and his foot on the brake from 2005 to 2013? Centralisation accelerated, measured by population change. What has been the evolution in recent years? It's been decreasing, but it's a long way to the goal. What does this really say? Yes, it is not the regional development funds that ensure market access for district products; it is the EEA Agreement. The threat is not where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is located, but that some will send Norway on the same mountain and valley course of a Brexit, and with poorer market access for the districts as a result. Government jobs are important, but private jobs are more – and more important – in the districts. The threat is not that there will be more doctors and nurses or state jobs in the county capital, but that some people want to tax Norwegian owners more and more hard and Norwegian businesses. That's good news for the big foreign group, but it goes beyond the districts. Although perhaps the richest live in Bø gradually, district businesses are often owned by those who run them. It is not government instruments that make the districts succeed; it is the people of the districts. The threat is not fewer municipalities, but the target-seeking political rockets against the district industries – against oil and gas, which the yard supplies, against mining, which could provide population and employment, against marine aquaculture and – God forbid! – if you have invested and built a larger boat with a little more quota. In all other contexts, we boast of those who succeed, invest and create something great, but in the fisheries it is the sin itself. These target-seeking rockets against successful district industries, and against people who bet, create unrest and fear of the future. It is the greatest threat now – the constant pursuit of what we should not live on in the districts, instead of what we can live on in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1268	The Centre Party will facilitate the possibility of living, working and living good lives throughout Norway. Then you have to make sure that there are good services close to people. One has to ensure that it is well-prepared, and that people get help within a reasonable time when they need it, no matter where one lives in Norway — in the countryside or in the city. One must also provide a plan to develop the whole of Norway. I heard the responsible State Council, including in the NRK earlier today, talk about new labels in municipalities and new divisions. What is important for people is the practical policy of a leader, and the result of today's government and the Support Party The Progress Party is that it is becoming increasingly focused on centralisation through policy and strong tax increases that affect people and businesses throughout Norway. When you hear the fine words that many people are talking about in this debate on development in the districts, I think that a lot of people around in Norwegian districts today are wondering: Do I have a job to go to tomorrow? Does the company in which I work go bankrupt? Is my life's work going to end? Is the plane going to leave tomorrow – not because of bad weather, but because there are not enough passengers to take off? And what do the majority, the government parties and the Progress Party do in this situation? They provide targeted tax increases for some of the most hard hit industries. The journey life, which is now lying with a broken back, and which one might hope might get into a kneeling up towards the summer, will encounter a doubling of the VAT rate. This applies to travel, transport and cultural life, all of which are hard hit industries. And the airline passenger fee, which the government in the draft state budget has proposed to reintroduce, is a fee increase that the government has calculated alone will receive in excess of 1.5 billion. kr. There are also many more things you should have done for the aviation industry, not least to provide for a compensation scheme. Still, after well over six months of major aviation crisis, there is no action in this area. So to the commuters, who have experienced, over and over again, powerful tax cuts from today's government, both those who are commuters, and those who are commuters, those who live in wrecks, or have had rents in addition: powerful incarcerations for them. In today's situation, with strong centralization and corona, where people have to be willing to move more to work in the future, one has to have additional tax incentives for commuters. It's a very unwise policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1281	I have to say that I squirmed a little when the Senterparte talked about stamping. If there's something the party has done to its parade, then it's going out and criticizing everything and everyone at all times, while having money for everything and everyone at all times. It will be interesting to see the alternative budget of the Central Party when they finally present it, whether it's cut in promises, or whether it's cut in welfare schemes, to make the budget go up. And there's something new from the Center Party that we knew, that set the grain for nourishment. We don't hear any more of that. With regard to state employment, I did not comment directly on the figures from the Ministry of Finance – I have no reason to doubt them – I commented that government employment is higher in almost all states today than in 2013, that the increase in all government employment has been falling in the four largest cities since 2013, and that we continue to slow down the growth of large cities by localising jobs across the country. There has been a lot of attention on how the government is now following up regional policy more specifically, how we are facilitating our country's different opportunities and different challenges. I'm very pleased, because I think that exactly what our country needs now is that we're doing what we can to facilitate the creation of the exciting jobs, so that people, for example. in the creation phase, want to move out of the cities and to the districts to work. Centralisation is not a measure of this government. But it's also not a goal to try to live in a past that doesn't match the map that we have to relate to. For this reason, the government wants to look at how the diversity of resource base between coastal and inland areas can contribute to the creation of growth and development in rural areas. Over the centuries, the sea has been a way of life for people along the coast, agriculture and forestry to provide jobs in the inland world, and with the two strategies we will pursue the policy of achieving more adapted and sustainable development of society along the coast and inland. We're rich in resources, and we're going to manage them in a sustainable way, precisely because it's helping to create the new jobs and new industries, what we're going to live on in the future. And then we have to do our utmost to make sure that those jobs come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1292	It is becoming quite common that some representatives first have to draw up a scare image of a constructed reality, and then be quite committed to being able to warn about what will happen if government policies are implemented, i.e. in the constructed reality that the representative has first tried to create. It's kind of a strange sight, but it actually happens quite often. That's what I think we witnessed here today when the representative Asphjell tried to create a picture that the introduction of free school choices across the country will lead to centralisation – a word that the Workers' Party is, incidentally, increasingly borrowing from the Centre Party – and the removal and loss of youth for the districts. It's kind of not a way. The problem with Agent Asphjell's posts is just that it's drawing a picture of a reality that doesn't exist, and that's not going to exist when we introduce free school choices across the country. It is quite right that when the proposal on free choice of schools was being consulted, there were some recordings, legitimate recordings, which we and the government felt the need to take a closer look at. That is precisely what is meant by hearings. When you get a video that makes you want to take a step back, you do it. That doesn't mean you have to put the whole proposal in the drawer. That just means that you have to keep working on the proposal to achieve the goals you have set. I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, while at the same time responding to the concerns raised by the hearing sessions – that we should not be able to maintain a decentralised school structure, that students should be given too long travel routes, that there should be a risk of schools being laid down. I believe that we can do well to care for this, while at the same time being able to give students greater freedom of choice, because here is what the Workers' Party is different from me and the Right. The Labour Party shows a touching concern for the freedom of choice of state policies, but is much less concerned with the freedom of choice of students. That's actually what it's all about, the students are going to have more power to decide about their own future, to get their dreams fulfilled, and that it's not the parents' address to decide which school they're going to go to, because there's a lot of reasons a student wants to go to a different school than the nearest one. Of course, it may be a desire to go on a special study program, but for some it is also a strong desire to change the environment, maybe get away from bullying, get new friends, get a new network, start again. And it's more important for me than for state politicians to decide more. I am a strong defender of local democracy, but I am also a strong defender of the individual's right to rule over his own life. The working party will reverse this if they win the 2021 election. I don't think they're going to do that, but that's at least one of the very best reasons not to vote in the Labour Party at the next election. Here it is the consideration of the students who are to stand in the high seat, not a touching concern for state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1305	I'm glad we have the SSB. It is relatively easy to deal with everyone in this room and with journalists and voters. If we go into the SSB and check out what's going on about participation in work, you'll see that there are more municipalities in Norway, and many of them in the districts, where there are more than 40 pst. of the working-age population outside the labour force, and it is in a normal situation. After the corona, it's become even more challenging. In this room, for example, the representatives Myhrvold, Strand, Thommensen, Nordlund, Gülsvik, Sivertsen, Lauvås and Kristensen will be out of work. So much in some district municipalities is what is currently not possible. There are several reasons for this, but a lack of food and industrial policy is an obvious reason. Several of these municipalities are located in my home country, especially in the south, where forestry previously employed many. Then someone would say yes, but that's because of technological developments. This is partly true, but it is also a side of the story that it is important to discuss here, because it is about whether the raw material is to be further processed in Norway, or whether we are just to be a commodity supplier for example. the Swedish industry. It is about whether we are using active measures to help young people who lack summer work, contribute to planting and youth care. Then I'm actually going to give the government honey, because it worked this summer, during the Corona, to give young people the opportunity to participate in the forestry. But in food production, on the other hand, we saw the opposite, because even though the Storting unanimously decided on 31 March that the government, together with the social partners, should take care to clean up the pay and working conditions of our people who work in food production, the right-wing government refused, and the excluded Joint Alliance refused to take part in the solutions that were to be put in place. This obviously leads to wages in food production among those who work in fields and fields being so low that it is less paid to contribute to food production than it is to get social benefits from Nav. The right parties often say it's worth working, and that's absolutely right, it's worth working, but we have to solve it that way that local workers get paid properly, not by removing our common insurance and removing the welfare state's schemes, which are to form the floor. It's the roof that needs to be lifted, not the floor that's going away. The Christian wondered for reasons of voting the Workers' Party. Just this is a good reason to vote in the Labour Party, because we want to make sure that there is a major cleaning in the labour market that allows more young people to get in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1319	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1324	We have not yet received an answer as to what this two-parted Norwegian district policy should be. But I'm in contact with the green environments, the research environments in Hedmark and the Inland – Heidner Biocluster, Norwegian Wood Cluster and Biovalley. What they're saying is that they want to cooperate with the blue sector, these clusters that are along the coast. So they can produce e.g. feed for fish farming of what can be produced in the Inland. So the opposite of government doesn't exist. What these are saying to us is that the tools that SV has promoted are what are needed to get these projects started, but then the government answers no – just as they say no to recycling building waste at Forestia in Våler, which could create 100 jobs. No thanks, the government says.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1329	It is especially when the minister is standing on Stortinget’s pulpit and claims that the number of state jobs is increasing in the districts. At the same time, she says she trusts to speak from the department. Well, just for Hordaland it says that collecting growth in state workplaces for whole Hordaland is on well and well 2,900. But only in Bergen is actually the growth of over 3,100. It shows that in the rest of Hordaland there is a decline in almost 250 workplaces. In particular, it will be claimed that there is a growth in the number of government jobs in the districts. So where are these workspaces? Let me take a example from home, Voss. When it comes to car surveillance, they remove the launch for heavy-duty cars and motorcycles, they remove the hall service. Is that so careful? Yes, because this leads to major challenges for drivers. They get fewer clients when they can't secure a run-up in the community. Self-employed people, who are an honorary word – at least on this speaker’s chair – get much more heavy weight when approving different travel caps. It may not be that far to Bergen, but if you have to run an animal hanger down there just to get the approval, it's hard. The progress party was on Voss and boasted that they wouldn't be on it. But when we were in the opposition here on the house trying to make a decision that one shouldn't shut down, they voted against it. I actually expected that they were also there to support us here so that we could have kept the important services for most people. Many of the county councils have gradually had such a tight framework that they now have to go through their education provision in many higher schools. The main challenges are for practical subjects, which cost more. I have to go to the representative Hagerup, who's talking about black paint. I want to say it's pretty strong when both the leader of Norway's Bond team and the Hordaland Bond team go out with their own letters and say that they are very happy in the agricultural network in the Right, but then they also have to learn to listen. I have to say that this debate has strengthened my image – one that sounds like a will, and likes to create a gloss picture instead of addressing the real challenges for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1342	Centralisation is a so-called megatrends, a phenomenon that characterises social development in many countries. This is a trend that in the Right we actively counteract and dampen our policies. We're running an active district policy because we want to make use of the whole country. We do not have it in Norway as in Sweden, where districts are desolate. We're going to continue to fence over live settlements. Business and agriculture are very important to get to this. Workplaces must be created in District Norway, and very well done. With the Right in Government, we continue to ensure a good framework for business through low taxes and taxes and through links with the EEA, which ensures the access of businesses in the districts to a large and very important market. Last year we exported fish for over 100 billion dollars. kr, and that was a record. Agriculture is an important area of activity for us. We remember the Central Party and the Battle of Vedum's predictions in 2012 that agriculture will go north and down with Erna Solberg as Prime Minister. That's not what happened. The facts and feedback are different. Last week I read in Trønderbladet, which is the locality of the municipality of Melhus, where I am from, that «the agriculture has become more sexy». There were young farmers on Hølonda, located on the outskirts of the municipality of Melhus, who met the press and told of optimism and faith in the future. Several had invested, and the agricultural office pointed out that it was doing very well. The interest in Norwegian agriculture and support for Norwegian agriculture is greater than ever, and the application for agricultural vocational training is large. With the Right in Government, we have made it profitable to bet on technology that makes it easier for the farmer to drive and more interesting to drive. If we're going to recruit for agriculture, we're going to have to keep making the industry sexy. We must continue to facilitate new technology, and we do. The trend of farm closure, which we saw especially under the red-greens, has slowed down. There were more farms under the red-green, when the Senter Party had the Minister of Agriculture, than under us – many more. Modern agriculture has major ring-effects, gives living communities and assignments to craftsmen, groceries and other businesses. Many farmers in the districts have done as my congregations, they have invested and created all of this. Now, predictability is needed for this to continue. If the red-greens, with SV, the Greens and Reds, can be determined, then this whole predictability will be wasted. A voice to the Central Party is, as it now seems, a voice to the Green and Red Environmental Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1355	I am grateful for the congratulations that I was able to obtain a licence as a busy one. I can recommend more people try that out. It's going to be too much to run in red-green colors, of course, when we get that far. You don't really have to worry about the horse industry. It's a big business. It gives about 16,000 annual works, spread around the country, most of them out in the districts, so the horse industry is probably worth both publicity and taking care of. Then I can only recommend the representative Trellevik to look up the page – I think it is – 41 in the document that is behind this, and where our setting stands. There's a good remark from the Workers' Party about the oil and gas industry, so he shouldn't have to worry about it. We have some suggestions here in the Chamber from the Workers' Party, some with the Center Party and some with SV, where we, among other things. asks to strengthen Norwegian horse-keeping. We are asking for a pilot project for smart people. We are asking for proposals to increase funding for fast boat and ferry services in the districts. We are asking for new measures to enable the district councils to innovate more than they do today. We are asking for equal access to knowledge and skills across the country by strengthening the regional role of educational institutions, making it easier to fill skills and take more adult education. We also ask the government to go through the regional air routes in order to ensure a good and equivalent collective provision in the districts, and we ask that there be a significant improvement in mobile coverage across the country and the development of multiple mobile masters. We also believe that there should be a significant increase in broadband funding, as there are still too many areas in the country that do not have sufficient coverage. We have discovered that, some of us each when we've had meetings with people in the districts – when the Teams images stop, it hacks and you lose sound. It's simply not good enough as a tool. It is a pity that we do not seem to have any connection from the government parties to any of the proposals I have mentioned here. That would have been possible after I heard the debate, but there is a bit between what the government representatives are standing here saying, and what they actually want to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1370	You have to listen to yourself, it comes from the heart, as the German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer said. I record that, in addition to attacking the Center Party, the government's representatives are good at that branch today. The problem is that people around the country don't recognize themselves in that boast. The economy of municipalities has deteriorated significantly in recent years, skills jobs are centralised, and government services and services are being shifted away. That centralization takes place, and it sees people. Many of these services are digitised, and it is not necessarily wrong, but it is strange that when things are digitised, jobs are not decentralised – they are centralised. It should be the opposite. The digitisation of services should provide a basis for shifting services, not into the major cities and regional centres – jobs that could contribute to wider population composition in District Norway and make it more attractive to move out and home by creating attractive and exciting skills jobs and clusters. But then we are also dependent on something the government's representatives have boasted of today, namely broadband. I think everyone in this room agrees that high-speed broadband is a necessity anno 2020. It was before the pandemic, and at least we've seen it now, under the pandemic, in a very clear way, at home school and home office. In addition, the benefits of using new technologies in welfare, business and agriculture, and not least in social terms, will be to keep in touch with relatives and friends via the screen. Unfortunately, many do not feel that they are part of this digital revolution, at least not a full part of it. At the end of the 1990s, the Center Party launched the idea of the digital all-man rights, and the party’s then leader, Odd Roger Enoxsen, became known for the term ‘broadband to the districts’. The majority of the population at the time concluded that broadband expansion was primarily a market issue. Twenty years later, we're not on target, which the Center Party also warned against that time. Differences between people and the digital class distinction are increasing. While the market is bulging the cream and offering the ready-to-pay market where people live more and more bandwidth and better connections, others are going to be hanging behind. Those who live a little pig-grown are referred to random state resources and do good in the branch. Unfortunately, today’s communication does not respond to this challenge either. Broadband for districts is still equally relevant for keeping growth and growth throughout the country, and a significant effort is required beyond government spending.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1383	'This is about will,' said my colleague, Mr Willfred Nordlund, at the beginning of this debate. If you want rural development, it's on your will – the political will. This is what we have had in the former district policy in Norway, as when the district colleges were built in the 1970s, among other things. led to Bø in Telemark becoming a really vital student municipality. That strong-willed and active politicians had also caused the Sørlandsbanen to get a really big turn into Bø, further contributed to the municipality being in good development. Both the university, now the university campus, good infrastructure and subsequent take-up of many other state jobs have made Boø in Telemark a growth municipality for many years. There is no doubt that if you want to invest in the districts, there are good, strong and concrete policy instruments to do so. But using such concrete and powerful instruments is not the government's approach to district policy. It is in practice about centralisation, which we in Telemark have marked strongly on the body under the various governments of Erna. Two hospitals and a number of county offices have been closed down and the response time increased critically, while very many services and jobs have been centralised away to Vestfold, among others. The Chief of Police and his staff, the Emergency Centre, the State Attorney's Office, the University Headquarters, the County Council, the Nav Contact Centre – and now the government is going to lay down property rights and land change rights in the upper part of Telemark as well. There are not many in Telemark who experience that measures contribute to good rural development. Another major problem in Telemark is the mass of very poor county roads. The aftermath is huge. The county council is now in despair because the government's tight arrangements for the county economy do not help to improve this. Here too, it is about will. Over the last few years, we in the Central Party have shown great willingness to improve our country roads much, for the better for a positive development in the districts. About 1 billion. We have entered into our alternative budgets. With that billion Telemark would now have received approx. $800 million. kr to the county road, and then, if nothing else, we would have had a more normal level to deal with in the case of aftermath. It would have been a real district policy effort. It says that where it's will, it's way. So in Telemark and other districts, it's not much for county roads. In many places it is totally hopeless, and the government then shows no willingness to assist, nor with other concrete regional policy measures, nor with stopping centralisation. If there is to be better development in the districts, and if a few such growth municipalities as Bø in Telemark are to be found across the country, we must clearly get a government that really has the will – and proper measures to invest in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1396	The representative, Norunn Tveiden Benestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1401	It was just a brief comment on something the representative Kolberg said earlier. He said in his post something such as that the state should be a friend of the districts and not their opponents, and I agree with that. But the state can't be everything forever. It must be there when it is needed most and the need is greater. It requires priority, and this government has been clear in its priorities and has given priority to five main areas: reducing the lag in the transport sector playing on teams with the local business community investing in the development of competences; strengthening digitisation and technological development; to say yes to local initiative In my view, this is both a concrete and a wise policy and an important contribution for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1424	It is fascinating that, in a debate on how to ensure growth and development throughout Norway, the country's district minister chooses, in the absence of good arguments, to use speaking time to progress in the budgetary work of the financial committee. In particular, it is free to do so when a representative of the government parties and their supporting party, the Progress Party, has ensured that all possible deadlines are met and that it is now possible that there is no majority for anything in the financial position. It is therefore the message from today's government and its support party The Progress Party to crisis-affected businesses around Norway, which live with uncertainty for jobs and for businesses every single day. To the comments of the Council of State on responsible money use: the Council of State represents a government that has spent seven years east of oil money, which has ensured that bureaucracy has grown and grown, which has increased the use of consultants and that the use of communications has increased in fines and buckets. But in today's situation, when we are faced with the greatest crisis that Norway has experienced in modern times after World War II, a sudden unwillingness to set up enough for people and businesses throughout Norway, for companies in crisis that are in danger of going bankrupt, people who do not know if they have a job to go to tomorrow. We must ensure accountability and predictability. That is what is the proper and sensible management of Community funds and contributes to the safe management of Norway. We need to take care of the business we have around in Norway in important industries, such as travel, which now has a broken back after targeted tax increases by the government and their supporting party The Progress Party. It's unwise politics. They need predictability. It could take years before they're back in the normal way again. But when they get up to their knees, maybe until they get through the summer, they have to meet a double charge. Instead, we need to ensure activity and transformation and use the power of the state in an active counter-cyclical policy to ensure that businesses and workers are saved through the crisis, and to ensure that we can have growth and development in Norway — and throughout Norway — in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1442	The next speaker is the representative Erlend Larsen, Right, then the Council of State – no, Battle violence Vedum must get the floor first, that's the way it is! Here you go, Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1447	Perhaps it was the President's dream that the Central Party should not have the floor again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1452	The president doesn't dream about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1457	The president doesn't dream about it. I would like to quote the Right-Rapporteur in Bø, for he summed it up very briefly and very concisely: 'the Member States have left us'. This is the Right-Own rapporteur in a district municipality, Bø in Northernland. [[Laughter]] Why does he say that? Well, because he sees how the policy of the Right has worked, that in the area by area, the state has withdrawn from the small municipalities of Norway. With the Progress Party and the Right Together, we have never seen a more centralizing policy than what we see now. We have the most centralizing government of the time. We've got a state district committee, which is run by Brandtzäg, and he says it outright: government jobs have increased by 15 pst. The municipalities of the outskirts have lost 12 pst. of the State employment during the same period. In other words, state jobs have increased in total, while all small municipalities have been lost. If we look at the SSB statistics from 2016 to 2018, we see that the number of government jobs has increased, while in 237 municipalities it has decreased. It's a direct result of politically conscious actions. When you centralize the police by calling it the near-police reform, but yet you have more than 120 places of service, it becomes centralization. When you implement a reform in the tax rate where you need fewer offices, it becomes centralisation. When you implement a reform in Nav where you want to streamline it, it becomes centralization. When reforming the higher education sector to merge, places of study such as Nesna are laid down. When you create strange structures, when Eastfold, Akershus, and Buskerud are going to be the same construction, so that the county becomes the Viken, a state with which no one understands the meaning, it becomes centralization. That's how I could still have. That's what the government has to take over. I think Norway is a great country. I have such faith in everything from the Finnmark coast to Agder, from Hedmark to the coast of the West, but then we as a state must also show that we have faith in all of Norway, and have jobs and activities throughout Norway. If we are to develop the whole country, we cannot concentrate all the jobs around Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen and Stavanger, we must also have them in the small places. The district committee says it outright: it is the state and the public sector that centralises the most, not the private sector. In many of the small municipalities, it's activity, it's value creation, high value creation, that we all serve. Then we also have to have a state in the smaller places, so that it can be possible for a small family to move there, that there is a job for Mom and Dad in that place, that it is safe that the ambulance comes when the accident happens, that it is not the way we experience in the interior, that when you call the operating centre, you can't expect the police to come, if you don't live outside of Hamar, Kongswinger or the other cities in the new, strange state of Inland. It's time for the Council of State and the government to start believing in the whole country, and not just centralizing the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1474	The Norwegian police recently participated in an international operation against a network of borderless criminals using high technology, such as encrypted mobile phones. The operation led, inter alia, to: to a large amount of drugs seized in the Netherlands. A few years ago, a large number of people were convicted in the major assault case called Operation Dark Room. Today's criminals aren't like before. They're better organized, they don't care about borders or municipal boundaries, they use modern technology, and they're willing to use brutal violence. They are carrying out criminal activities that cannot be investigated by a loner's office. The results of the reform show that the quality of police work has improved, and that the Norwegian police are investigating more and more complex issues today than before. New technology makes it possible for the police to do far more in the field. More and more police cars are being equipped with computers, which are of great importance for the response time. It is also part of the police reform. New figures show that the police for the first time reached response time requirements at national level. 98 pst. of all calls to emergency number 112 shall be answered within 20 seconds. One of the reasons for achieving this goal is that there have been more than 3,000 more annual police work since the government joined in 2013. Many of the annual works are filled with people who have education other than the Police College. Police need the competence of psychologists, economists, computerists, etc. A prevention group is still in schools and kindergartens, where they carry out knowledge dissemination in areas that characterise our time, such as: sharing of images on the web, use of drugs, etc. We need to be safe throughout the country. At the same time, there are some special functions that need to be grouped together. Those who must be experts in data and specialised crime must work together in competent environments. The police reform facilitates this. Going back to the system of a large number of loner offices will not solve tomorrow's crime scene. Instead of having a number of small loner offices with very limited opening time and limited resources to solve the missions, they are assembled to a few fewer stations that have the availability and capacity we expect of the police today. The emergency response force and the emergency response unit in the police districts are strongly strengthened, and they practice more. We've also strengthened the police with three new helicopters. This is beneficial for the whole of Norway, both city and country. The police reform is not in the finish line, but we are on the right track. We are getting more and more feedback that the reform is working. The police have become much more visible where people are, online, and this is especially important in terms of children and young people. We're going to bet even more on, among other things. serious crime, such as killing, sexual offences and violence in close relationships, and we need to focus more on counter-terrorism – throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1489	The increase in government employment in the four largest cities of Norway has recently been falling, although the centre party is now desperately trying to say something else. It may not be so strange that there are many jobs in the larger cities, because the large increase in recent years has come in the health, higher education and justice sectors. That's because this government had a huge stake in more police, health workers, and in colleges and universities. The rapporteur in Boø told me when I spoke with him today, that the state began to withdraw when the Senter party was in government, that was when the state began to disappear. But that's not what's most important to me, he said. The important thing is that we can create jobs, that people want to live here. When we listen to Battle violence Vedum, it's state, state, state and more state. One would really think that the Center Party has started to change a little bit about its rhetoric to become good friends with both MDG, SV and Red – if it is them Prime Minister candidate Battle Force Vedum needs support from. It's a bad sign. There is no more state that creates well-being, creating jobs around the district of Norway. With regard to the targeted regional policy that the government wants to develop more, the start-up shot today went for the work on the two different strategies we are going to pursue. We're going to cooperate with those who wear their shoes, those who work in the coastal tourism industry, those who work on cabin tourism, those who want to facilitate farming and the mineral industry. These are the ones we need to talk to – together with the municipalities, who see that there are major challenges, who want to reverse development, who want to grow in their municipalities. We're going to cooperate with the county councils. When the Central Party is standing and demanding answers today, when we today warn that we are starting to work on a strategy, I can say that this government is listening to people. We're out there. We're talking to those who wear their shoes, they're the ones who're going to be involved and they're making sense of how the strategy is going to be drawn up. Here, of course, there are many common denominators, because the coast and the hinterland have a lot in common. But they also have challenges individually that we have to deal with to a much greater extent than we've done before. It's about green and blue skills businesses and environments. These are common challenges in order to create the business community that helps to improve the well-being of citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1504	First, let's say that there is a lot of cutbacks in the funds allocated to compensating for regional disadvantages, both through direct allocations to regional and regional policies and through the targeting of public funds and, not least, government jobs. The state has a balancing role in many districts, and therefore the jobs are so important. The possibility of having more decentralised is absolutely present. I think I have to urge everyone to study answers to question No. 198 to the Central Party budget. It is clear that there is internal centralisation in absolutely all regions, and the major winners are therefore the four largest cities in Norway. Of course, it's quite natural with the background that they get many of them when we talk about hospitals, but it's also true in a number of other areas where it's not natural for them to get the big increase. There they also get new state jobs. It's going to create an unfortunate development in the long term. It is thus a sub-funding of tasks experienced by Norwegian local politicians and state politicians. It is clear that it prevents their ability to create good services, what forms the basis of people's everyday lives, the services they depend on. We have to do something about that. It may seem that the Central Party is like assigning the task of working against the power of urbanisation, and that this is a trend that cannot be countered at all. But now you have to listen carefully, because it is largely about political will and what kind of framework conditions are used. And I refer to the population development statistics of the SSB: in 2005, 116 municipalities had population growth, 249 had a decline. In 2013, 255 municipalities had population growth, 112 had decreased. What happened when we arrived in 2018? So 188 municipalities had a population growth, and 227 had a decline. Last year, 128 municipalities had a population increase, and 291 had a decline. The reasons are more, but the political priorities of the Solberg Government and the Support Party The Progress Party have contributed to this development. Something else is completely impossible for the government to get away from. We do not need a policy of deportation in the districts. And let me stress that the Council of State's assessment of what is Norwegian district is very narrow. There are also population declines in many large municipalities, in what are typical districts in this country – in municipalities with both 7 000, 8 000, 12 000, 15 000 and 20 000 inhabitants, both a population decline and a state that is expanding. It's probably not that it's just on the extreme island or in the smallest municipality that this is a problem. It is also felt in large and medium-sized municipalities, and that is why the Council of State and government policies are so wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1519	I really shouldn't do this debate that long, but I wanted to bring up something that it's been talking about, people's reactions, etc. It's a people's reaction that may not have been enough mentioned, and it's the people's reaction that's in Andey. They laid down Andøya air station on the Andes and moved it right above the fjord, to Evenes – not very far away. It was a fantastic airport that no one understands why you took away. For my part, I am very happy that the ferry goes between Øksfjord and Hasvik, so that I get home when necessary. Now it becomes so that these ferries are going to go on gas, and it makes them rarely go when there's bad weather. The ferry is the umbilical cord of society out there. But that's what happened. We who live in Hasvik produce for approx. One million. kr per capita still. It could have been a lot more. We've never had so many fish in the country that are exported, but we could probably have exported for 2 million. NOK if it had been prepared for it. Local ownership is important, and as it is now, the capital of Hasvik is not. The representative Tom-Christer Nilsen mentioned that there had been some large boats. Yes, there have been many large boats. We've lost the little ones. It has, for example, again led to the large boats not getting into the port. The county council, which has been responsible for muddling and doing this, has not been given capital to do so. This means that the large boats must be on the outside and wait for the sea to be flooded before they can add the berth and deliver. It's in a nutshell what it's been like. In the case of State jobs, government statistics say that in the period 2013–2019 Oslo had 73,668 government jobs. That was 4,546 more than in the period before. By comparison, Loppa had ten, and they had lost nine. What can we live on in the country? There aren't so many other possibilities, but we're still looking for new opportunities to live. No one is going to tell me that we're not doing what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1534	I believe that an important premise for this discussion is about the policy that the government is pursuing, leading to less centralisation, and whether he is turning the negative population trend in the districts. The answer to that is no, he does not. He strengthens the development we see today. Regardless of the current line of government in this district message, he strengthens centralization and the weak population development that we see in almost all of Norway, compared to the urban strata. If one goes down in the number on this – among other things. Telemarks research has carried out a very interesting analysis based on the SSB figures, one of which is also part of the NOU, which deals with the district industries, which the government has ordered – sees that it is not a centralisation that takes place in business. In fact, business does not centralize. There we see a trend towards a positive decentralization, that business is increasingly decentralizing a little bit. Where we see centralization most strongly, it's in public. There's some centralization in the municipalities. There is also a centralisation in municipalities and municipalities. But the leaders of centralization are the state. There we've seen in recent years that it's exploded. One has been reforming one after another, and the mantra has always been that large is better than small, large trade unions are much better than scattered trade unions – and thus has a built-up state presence in the districts. That's the facts. As a defense against the criticism that is voiced by the parties that want to reverse this development, the representative Knag Fylkesnes is now talking about the districts again. It's a completely absurd argument. If I'm critical of the government's district policy, I'm talking down district policy to the government – I'm not talking down the districts. If one were to use this argument on criminal policy, it would be almost the same as saying that if I was critical of the government's criminal policy, I'd talk down the criminals. That's a completely absurd argument, which we meet again in the area by area. There's some kind of emergency argument. We also see this in the context of the fisheries policy: if one is disunity in the fisheries policy for the government, it is talking about fishing. And if one is disunity in agricultural policy to the government, talk about agriculture. No, we are critical of government policy, and we are talking about districts, fisheries and agriculture, because we believe that Norway needs this infrastructure if we are to cope with the great green transition in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1547	We handle a message that has a good situational description, but has zero measures. Unfortunately, no new measures have been introduced in this debate either, except that the Council of State suggested that we should have a two-part district policy, and it is completely impossible to get a grip on what is in it. On the contrary, it creates uncertainty: are we now going to wind up the main district policy instrument – differentiated employer's fee? It would have been very reassuring if the Council of State could cancel it, and try to draw a little sketch of what this really is all about. In general, the Council of State and government representatives have used this debate either to deny the facts or to fool the Central Party. It's not very constructive any of the parts. When the facts say that the number of municipalities with population decline was 249 when the previous right-wing government went off and 113 when the red-green government went off, is there any evidence that red-green district policy is not working? After seven years of right-wing government, we're up in 291 municipalities with a population drop. Of course, district policy works. The Council of State also denies that large increases in government jobs have occurred in the major cities, even though the Ministry of Finance claims it is correct. It's almost incredible that it works. The centre party has been defrauded in every possible way. We have done nothing but drink coffee, as if it were wrong. We've talked down the districts, we've slowed down the development of society, and we've expressed our desire for medieval solutions – that's what we've been using for the last eight years. Then the Council of State should wonder how it might be that we have gone from an upsurge around the barrier eight years ago to a five-fold increase in that upsurge in eight years. Could it possibly be that the voters see that we see them? I just have to say that, after this debate, there are still no new solutions; there is no clear rural policy – on the contrary, these decentralised measures must continue as they have done. I heard on the radio this morning that today is on the day ten months since we got a district minister. I can see that it will take at least ten more months before we have a district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1562	There were several right-wing representatives and perhaps the nice representative, Toril Eidsheim, who made me take the floor, because they have thus pointed out several reforms that should have given the districts better opportunities. Then I thought, Is it possible that they dare to bring forward many of the reforms that have been carried out in recent years, in this debate? It amazes me. Did she mean the near-police reform, for example? – that the closure of police and officers’ offices is a good district policy? You might find arguments in the area of justice if you're looking for a long time and a long time. I'm going to dispute it, but at least that's an opportunity. But district policy? Did she mean the regional reform? The municipal mergers? You might find arguments there that are also positive, although I can dispute a lot of that as well. But good district policy? The centralization of municipal centres, services, town halls, etc. - Is that good district policy? Was it perhaps the centralization proposals on the district courts, the passport offices to be closed, she thought of? Good district policy? I don't get it. Was it perhaps the reform in the field of professional transport that she was thinking of — the dross of dross — and perhaps refers to the exclusive rights regime in the districts that would take over the responsibilities of the districts? Is that what she's thinking about – getting an exclusive right to do prairie business, i.e. driving taxis on market-based conditions out in the districts, in a crossroads in Sigdal? I don't think that gives a lot of money. So it's a complete down-priority of the districts in the new taxi law. Were there any changes in the postal law she was thinking about – that we've halved the number of days with loads? That's weird district policy too. Maybe it was the railway reform she was thinking about – having two, three, or four companies that you relate to when travelling from one district to another? Is that good district policy? I could refer to many other examples, traffic stations, for example, but I don't understand it's so easy for the right forces to operate district policies, because in many ways it's just a patch on the wound on a system they're defending, where capital is going to go quite freely. And it goes, as we know, where it's most to serve. And when they don't want to use state ownership in any way – preferably not – it's not easy either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1580	The representative Willfred Nordlund has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1585	I am not going to extend the debate more than necessary, but we have some proposals that I have not called for. One is about the good scheme called Mercury, for what kind of support we have for the local local local store in the districts. The centre party believes that one has to look at the arrangement to also create opportunities for those who have not raised capital and who do not seem to have the possibility to do so in the long term, but otherwise have a healthy operation. Furthermore, we have a proposal that is about a greater commitment to minerals and a plan for how to get it going, a stepping-up plan for re-establishing the county road network, a proposal for post-service services for laboratory samples, and not least the local ones. We have a desire to get a better adapted beach zone development. And not least we have a proposal that goes on revising state guidelines. Finally, I should like to make a small explanation of vote. 30 is going to vote in favour of the Center Party. We assume that this does not necessarily mean that we believe the government should grant directly to municipal food funds, but we believe that they have been very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1596	Norway is a good country to live in. Our country is characterized by small differences and a great deal of trust and security. Societal developments in recent years show a global trend where we see an increasing degree of centralisation and digitisation in society. It's also going to look like Norway. When a person listens to representatives from the Center Party in particular, one should think that this is happening under this government and only in Norway. Yes, it may seem that the Center Party has forgotten its eight years in government – where 9,000 gardeners were laid down, and 336 alleys were also laid down. The challenge for many district municipalities is an ageing part of the population and, after all, a shortage of skilled labour. The fact is, young people move from their districts into the city. Special girls drag out and don't come back. Telemark research estimates that in 237 municipalities, the population will fall by 2040 and that the least central municipalities will lose 18 pst. by the inhabitants. It's a challenging image. For this reason, I am pleased that this government sees the need for more knowledge of districts, and in the context of the districts message that came in autumn 2019, two selections were set down – the first on the districts industry, which came on 28 October, and the second on the demographics selection, which will address the consequences of the demographic challenges in the districts. In total, these two selections will provide an up-to-date knowledge base for further development of district policy, because there is too little knowledge of what makes a municipality attractive. Is it work, family, access to cultural and leisure provision, broadband or educational provision? Creating attractive communities where people want to live is one of the most important regional policy issues in the future. We can't force people to stay in the districts, or use force to make people move to pig-grown strips. We must try to find out what creates attractive and living communities. I am convinced that we must continue to facilitate growth and development in the private sector. We need to be able to provide equivalent welfare services – and not least continue the expansion of transport, which this government has led since 2013 and which leads to a larger employment and labour market. It could be in tune with the global trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1609	The representative of Ove Trellevik has had twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1614	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum made a brief visit here and discussed the district message. He pulled out Sture Pedersen in Bø, where he had told that the state had left them. But the Senterpartiet proposed last year's budget for a year when they would actually leave many places around the country. They wanted to reduce the Maritime Directorate's budget in Haugesund. The rule board in Henefoss was supposed to lay down, everyone was supposed to lose their job. Joining the Directorate of Administration and ICT in Leikanger had to find new jobs. In the National Communications Authority, it was unclear who would smoke — whether it was Lillesand, Lillehammer or Lødningen that would smoke. But it was also the Lottery Authority and the Förde who were to smoke. So there's more than the spokesman from Right in Bø who's going to have to fear the politics of the Center Party. If that's this Arne Nävra mine is good district policy, they'll have something to fight with if they're going to cooperate once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1619	I will not go out the debate, but there are several things that have emerged today, which concern me. What worries me the most is that the centre party is now creating anxiety and uncertainty about the differentiated employer's fee. It has to be a little careful to do, because it's causing a lot of anxiety in our businesses around the districts, which in the middle of a pandemic is more difficult than ever to take care of their employees. They lie awake at night to ensure that their employees have a job to go to. I said earlier in the debate that we call about the differentiated employer fee. It is absolutely essential that there is stability around it. It is the most effective regional policy instrument we have in Norway. I hope that the Center Party does not further contribute to creating fear, unrest and concern for District Norway. The centre party, especially the representative Heidi Greni, felt almost a little embarrassed because the position had been so tough. It almost has to be found in when you distribute money in the east and west, and when you criticize others shockingly and constantly, and have made it your favorite sport. While the government is concerned with politics, the Center Party is most concerned with rhetoric. The fact that the Central Party now has to begin to respond to how they are going to solve all the challenges that they have said they are going to face easily like that, and how they are going to finance all of their promises to the districts and all of the other areas of society, and that they have to put into practice the content of their policies, in fact, you just have to figure out. Especially when it looks like they have ambitions to get the Prime Minister into a new government, you have to start responding. I promise that the government parties will cancel the Central Party's answer also in the future. It could be that it's a little uncomfortable. I understand that when you've been so tall and dark for so long. But what we're experiencing in District Norway now, we've experienced for many, many years. The centre part continues to operate with black paint. They're talking the districts down. They are more concerned with reaping their own political gain than they are with facilitating job creation, activity and development, so that we can put into practice the whole of our wonderful country, so that we can help strengthen our well-being, and so that people in the districts can also walk proudly around and be happy that they have the opportunity to live in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1632	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1637	There we got an example that if you're critical of government policy, you're talking about districts. I could almost have said that had it been a plating party for every time it has been mentioned in this debate, we would all have been full. But I'm not going to say that. There's another argument that also appears in this debate, which is also a little bit interesting. It's that because there's centralization abroad, it's quite fine that it happens here. Because it's a global trend, it's all right that we have a policy in Norway that reinforces it. It shows only how unlikely the government has weak arguments for its policy. Another argument is that because ten years ago gardening was shut down, it is quite a good idea to pursue a policy that is laying down a little more today. It just doesn't seem to be a basis for national policies to come here with the form of argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1646	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1651	It was the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen who made me need a brief clarifying post here. In the post there were many fine words and desires. Among other things, we should have small differences in Norway, and we should have jobs around all regions. The problem is that the government, consisting of, among other things, Right and left, now it's really the opposite for high school when a lot of schools could be in danger of being closed up because it's no longer going to be allowed to have a purely secondary school principle. So in another field, we see that the practical policy and rhetoric are 180 degrees apart. You can't do that when you're in control of a country. Then you have to be honest with the consequences of your own policies. From my own region, I know at least that for the business community in the north-east valley, having a strong secondary school with a professional background and based on the primary school principle is crucial for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1656	When the Council of State hits the Center Party, it is in its place to respond a little bit, especially when several of my party traps are empty of speaking time. I would also like to point out what Trellevik was inside his post. He criticises the Center Party for wanting to reduce state bureaucracy. Well, then I think that Trellevik should go a little by itself, because that's actually an explicit goal, across sectors, that you want less bureaucracy, increased turnover and value creation for the state money we set aside. So when the Center Party moves money from the directorate to, among other things. municipalities, counties and business funds are simply because we want to put money into work – they will contribute to jobs and value creation locally across the country. Then the government council is extremely committed to the differentiated employer fee. That's what the Center Party really appreciates. But it is not the Senterpartie that gives cause for concern about the differentiated employer’s fee, or the zones that are established here. This is what the Council of State contributes to, with the strategy and the two-way approach that has been debated throughout the day, where the coast and the inland are set up against each other. Of course, we are concerned about the resource base that exists in the different parts of the country, but no one serves to divide Norway into two in the way the Council of State provides. It was pointed to the Korona and crisis pack. The size is probably quite consistent with the fact that we all take seriously the situation in Norway. Then we have to stand together on the measures. Unfortunately, it is now the Progress Party that is the government's closest support player in developing crisis packages. It also makes the crisis packages too small and too late. It's the Center Party that's very critical of it. In addition, the Council of State would like to see policy made more concrete. Well, I think she's read the 31 proposals that the Center Party is on today. In addition, I can promise that in the forthcoming election campaign, we will contribute to concrete action for the whole country every single day. Because there's something a center party is steady about, it's that we work for the districts. We work for services near people, because there are measures, among other things. Here in the Storting that helps make a difference to that. I also believe that the Council of States should take this on board, and that is what the Central Party is standing by, with our proposals for policy – instead of the description that we feel the government is presenting. It's too thin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1670	The representative Heidi Greni has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1675	It was said here that we can't force people to move to the districts. Of course, we can't, but we have to stop forcing people to move into town, and that's what we do by facilitating all the workplaces to be in a city. To Trellevik, I would like to comment that the Central Party will reduce state bureaucracy. I actually thought it was a goal we shared with the Right. But, of course, we need to ensure that we spread the jobs we are going to have, as far as possible, also to small and medium-sized cities. To Hofstad Greece, I have to say that it is quite special that the Council of State is more concerned that the Central Party has not provided its alternative budget than that the government has not been able to keep a single deadline for the treatment of the State budget, and that we are still completely uncertain whether we have a government budget in place when we go into the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1684	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1689	The representative Nävra was in his speech asking what reforms were needed. The answer is everyone. All the reforms we are now undertaking are necessary. Both the public sector and the private sector face demanding conversion times. No one can ignore just that. Developments are fast, both locally and globally, and the risk of falling behind is high. At the same time, exciting opportunities open up for those who are willing to change and change. The government is making the necessary structural changes to enable Norway and its districts to meet well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1696	The representative Helge André Njåstad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1701	Now I'm not going to prolong the debate, but I have to spend my one minute. It's a little weird to listen to the Central Party in debate. They're obviously busy with one thing, and there's government jobs going out in the country, but at the same time they cut off highly on consulting, which are actually state jobs. So it's not consistent, the policy they're running. It also seems that they are more concerned with describing others' policies and repeating their own in- and out-of-office policies, without actually entering into the proposals that are being made. I want to use my last seconds to ask the Center Party why they, like the Workers' Party, are not involved in the proposal to use old buildings, old nausts and old chairs in agriculture for a new diet. Why does the Central Party stand on the outside of the good proposal of the Government Party, the Progress Party and the Labour Party, which will be good for the districts? That's probably because they haven't read it. They're more concerned with rhetoric than going into politics. I would therefore recommend that they vote in the vote with the Labour Party for our good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1708	I also think the Senterpartiet knows that the work on the differentiated employer’s fee is a race running with the EU. There the government is now negotiating with the EU. We have just extended the deadline by 2021 because of the situation we are in. And of course, a differentiated employer’s fee scheme will not be part of a strategy. I think we're going to end that discussion. So it's pretty interesting that the Center Party has spent seven years in opposition to set city and land up against each other. They set city and land against each other. What are they doing today when they hear that the government will more differentiate district policy? We're going to be based on the different assumptions and potentials that lie along our coastal communities, like up in Båtsfjord, where they live on fish. It's a rather different everyday life compared to the mountain municipality of Ål in Hallingdal, which I know very well. There are two quite different worlds. So what does the Center Party do? Well, they're using the same strategy. Now they set the coast and the mountains and land up against each other. There is no one from the government parties who has talked about this being a competitive relationship at all. We're going to lift the entire District Norway, we're going to lift the coast, and we're going to lift the inland. What's the Center Party doing? Well, here they see their average to build a new conflict between coast and inland. I hope they don't pursue that further. We do not need more of the conflicts between town and country, between district and metropolitan regions, than the Central Party has already managed to achieve. I think this has been a bit of a strange debate. I think it's very strange that an opposition that aims to get into government next year is not more concerned with discussing the challenges and what it wants to do: create jobs, create well-being for the inhabitants and contribute to good leisure and well-being services. I think that's what the districts are primarily concerned about, that their everyday life, their lives, gets better, not least under the pandemic we're experiencing now. And then I, together with the municipalities, the county councils and the business community, am looking forward to developing the strategies that the government is going to put forward before the summer. We also have urban and urban areas. I look forward to seeing which conflict line the Center Party is going to create there. But the government is working on a broad front to create activity, development and growth across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1721	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1738	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1745	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and thorough consideration of the proposal made by the representative of the Bears Moxnes on school without any profit. It makes the job as case rapporteur so much easier. There are also several proposals that are not supported by the majority in the Committee, and I believe that they are self-explanatory. Most students in Norway attend public schools. The figures for the 2019–2020 school year show that more than 4 pst. by primary school students and more than 8 pst. by high school students attending private schools, in-house schools. In the future, the vast majority of Norwegian students will also attend public schools. The Committee has noted that the number of private alternatives in the school sector has increased in recent years, but whether this is good or not, the Committee has shared views. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that there is a large difference between the counties in terms of the number of pupils attending private schools. The majority, of which I'm a part, indicates that private schools, i.e. fresh schools, that receive state subsidies, after the law does not have access to dividends. Approved fresh oils are subject to strict public regulation and control, and there is a clear prohibition on taking out any form of open or hidden dividends. The majority believe that all students deserve the best education possible for each individual. Private schools contribute to many innovative and innovative schools, and there are many efforts to develop more practical education and more effective training provision, such as: to the farm market in its own region. The Free School Act was amended in 2015. The law already gives the municipalities and county councils the right of objection when schools are to establish or expand. Clear rules are important to ensure good quality education for students and students, but there is no need to impose too many bureaucratic requirements and regulations that may hinder the establishment of a new school offer. The content of school, diversity and the right of families and students to choose for themselves are strong principles for the majority. It is therefore important to facilitate further operation, start-up of new and continued good development of private schools across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1764	This matter and the debate are probably most of all a confirmation of the already fixed position in the view of private schools, but I must say I am surprised that the government in this discussion is also so reprehensible. It seems that they are only extremely satisfied with their own efforts and are not willing to discuss any other proposals. I think this is essentially a discussion of two lines. One is the fight against Right Sneezing Privatisation and, in my opinion, attacks at the primary school. Under this right-hand government, since 2013, the number of students in private schools has increased by almost 50 pst. It's approved 157 new private schools, and a lot of these are primary schools -- a disturbing development, you ask me. For example, in my home town, Stavanger, a new religious private elementary school wall was created with the public school, which clearly erases the student base for a good public school in the district of Tjensvoll. I call this a sneak privatization also because the Right Later as if one has not opened up the law for the massive privatisation one now sees. Today, the Labour Party is once again promoting our proposal on a municipal veto right. It is the municipalities that can best create and determine the local school structure. The second line of discussion goes by is the fight for strict legislation. I am pleased that we are very much in agreement that the money should benefit the students, and not go into the pockets of the private owners, but I think it is surprising that the government so much rejects the fact that this is a sector of change, which requires a law and regulation to change as well. For example, this is a case in point. on trade between related companies, complex structures that prevent transparency, where we from the opposition promote several proposals that are clearly rejected today. For me, the case today confirms that there is a need for a change of government and a new majority if we are to be able to clean up here. I also note that a loose proposal has been promoted in the Chamber, and I just want to report that the Labour Party does not support it, proposal No. 6 from Red. We regard the policy and the content of the proposal as already taken up by other proposals supported by the Labour Party. That is why I will also address the proposals in the case that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1777	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1782	To the extent that there is something wrong with the law, the Central Party is presenting proposals here today to correct it, and I will address proposal No. 5, which we have with SV. Besides that, the Center Party will stress that we want a strong and free public school that is constantly evolving to be the best possible. The quality of education shall not be guided by geography or social background. The party wants access to education throughout the country and a decentralised school structure both in primary and secondary schools. Local conditions must govern and schools must be able to take advantage of local and regional advantages in interactions with the local environment. Being able to influence the school locally is a democratic value. The participation of students, supervisors and teachers contributes to motivation and self-interest in how school life is. The centre party will maintain the current state aid approval basis for private schools offering alternative pedagogics or based on a different way of life, but will tighten up with regard to the recognition of private profile schools and vocational training programmes. A school shall not be approved if its establishment has a negative impact on the public offer. We also want student places to be seen in the context of the entire municipality and the whole county. The centre party is concerned about whether the law of free school becomes a valve that relieves the pressure the government imposes on the municipalities with tight economy and centralization. The closure of secondary schools shall not be the sole purpose of meeting the budgets and ends. Then we save ourselves to find, at the expense of children and young people growing up. Rarely have the municipalities had it tougher. Only increased tax access has been curbed by government cuts in subsidies. The question is what the country looks like after the coronary eruption, when municipalities and schools have had to rob employees and school economies. Combined with this, we introduce new curricula in primary school and step by step in higher education. This is going to be a stomach job if the government doesn't make more money for teaching positions, teaching materials, temporary workers, training, equipment and other needs for adequate school operations. The first line in the municipalities, whether health or growth, is worn to the rim. At the same time, we have a government that gives the impression of knowing better than people locally. The last in the series is the government's requirement of character-based admission to high school. This is contrary to the responsibility of the counties for competence. Today's debate is on the side of this, but I use the opportunity to raise the concerns of the big picture in the school debate. The development of several pupils in private schools may be a symptom of the suffering of municipalities. The centre party will ensure equal opportunities for children and young people for education throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1799	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1804	For the right, it is important that we bet in a good public school. Throughout our years in government, we have clearly shown seriousness. Large efforts on quality, content and significant lifting for several teachers with depression in their teaching subjects are examples of this. It is important that we succeed in school policy and give our children a good schooling, where they can experience mastering and finally complete and pass. The school is also an important joint venue for children and young people, and broad professional and cultural communities promote learning and strengthen students' identity and ability to dialogue, respect and tolerance. This is precisely why Norway’s model, supported by approved fresh schools, is so important that everyone can participate in the diversity of school services, regardless of the background and the wallet of their parents. That all children get a good schooling is one of the most important things we can give to our children, parents and society as a whole, and all students deserve the best education possible for the individual. Free schools also contribute to the development of new offers, profiles and pedagogical approaches and cooperation with, for example, business. In total, this is a positive contribution to the education sector as a whole. Free schools, through their approval and state aid, are in many ways a part of the common school compared to purely private schools, which live by school money. In addition, when we see that the proportion of students who actually go to fresh schools is quite low, the free school debate really seems pretty caricatured. Today, in particular, through the proposal for a representative, this becomes visible. Through the revision that we made of the 2015 Law on Free Schools, where local objections were strengthened, the dividend ban tightened, increased transparency and documentation requirements and the fact that we were given new guidelines in 2019 for trading with related companies, the boarding schools are well regulated, and the supervision shows that the system is functioning properly. Schools are currently unable to make any dividends, either hidden or open-ended. The comments make it clear what it really wants to do on the left side, namely to abolish today's law on free school. The goal is slow, but surely to complete the school diversity we see today. Even when the Workers' Party is able to take care of the fact that high-sports schools are only schools with a little extra focus on physical exercise, this shows a complete lack of willingness to see the positive diversity and offer that our schools contribute to our children, young people and Education Norway. I would say that there is actually a rather disrespectful mention of the offer these schools give to our young people and top-notch in Norway. Sports and all those young people who want this offer, and not least their parents, should be aware of next year’s major choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1817	We shall suspend the debate on substance. 8 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1886	During the debate, Helge André Njåstad put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals for changes to the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the loading of electric vehicles and on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law of the law on the law on The Management Board may refuse its consent only if there is a reason for the matter.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the ownership so that any additional costs associated with the installation of charging points, maintenance or upgrading of the mains network are to be financed only by the housing units using charging points so that this is not to be charged to the whole law on the law on housing or the community.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Barriers and the Law on Ownership so that the installation of loading points in common areas related to the law on housing or the law on housing shall only be charged to all housing units if agreed by all housing units.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1915	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e1920	The representative Larsen voted incorrectly and was to vote against it. So let's do that right over here. The correct number of votes is then 69 votes against the proposal and 16 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2100	Paragraphs 5–11(a) and IV(25) and new Paragraph 25(a) are added to the list. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2114	The remainder of II and IV, as well as other Roman numerals, are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2124	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2134	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2881	It is quoted above in § 60, § 60 a, new § 60 b and § 63. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2895	The rest of the I and the other Roman numerals are voted over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2906	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2916	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2928	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-18, from Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 19 and 20, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to tighten legislation and the local authorities’ dispensation opportunities to prevent the construction of the beach zone.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal for increased appropriations for the work on environmental crime in the police districts and the ECOCRIM, in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2963	I voted wrong. Can it be corrected?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e2968	So let's do that right over here. The correct number of votes is then 80 votes against the proposals and 7 votes in favour. The proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–18, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting, in the context of the revised national budget 2021, with further measures and increased appropriations to reduce environmental crime.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the UK Government to come back to the UK with proposals to strengthen criminal prosecution of environmental crime by strengthening reporting practices, increasing penalties under the Nature Diversity Act and the Wildlife Act and working for increased use of withdrawal.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the UK Government to come back to the UK with proposals for instruments to strengthen police work on environmental crime, both through work on threat assessment, intelligence and prevention, in the context of the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Grand Duchy, in the context of the revised national budget 2021, with a proposal for increased appropriations to increase the natural and planning competence and capacity of municipalities to report more offences.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals for instruments to increase supervision, increased investigation capacity and increased supervisory capacity of the respective authorities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with proposals to increase the use of personal punishment in relation to serious environmental crime.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to speed up public reporting in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for instruments to limit the possibilities of keeping records, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased supervision in order to ensure compliance with the rules of the pollution law on the prevention and management of food waste.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for funds to be set aside to increase supervision and enforce current legislation to prevent the diversion of electrical and electronic waste.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to police and prosecution resources to fight crime related to the theft of electrical and electronic waste and return metals.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Environment Directorate to lower the threshold for reporting environmental crime.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Petroleum Authority and the Directorate-General for the Environment carry out regular monitoring, follow up the implementation of directives and report all offences.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for increased appropriations to combat environmental crime in the Environment Directorate and the Petroleum Control in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Directorate-General for the Environment stops the practice that can be seen as granting emission permits with retroactive effect and to report all illegal emissions.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Directorate-General for the Environment to ask operators to stop production during periods when the operator cannot operate under Norwegian law.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Petroleum Control Authority has more stringent control of non-conformities.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Petroleum Control Directive lowers the threshold for imposition.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3127	It is voted on over I to IX. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3153	The cancellation then goes over to vote on the matter no. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3162	Case No. 1 to 5 is the second reading of laws and applies to legislative decisions 16 to 20. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3176	During the debate Seher Aydar put forward two proposals on behalf of Red. There is a vote on proposal No. One from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 11 is replaced by the following: § 11 Transparency All may require transparency in the annexes and accounts of the aggregates, subject to the following limitations: The same applies to other data of a privacy nature and to information which is subject to a legal obligation of professional secrecy. b) Information of a competitive nature, including political and strategic arrangements, may be exempted from transparency. c) Information on safety aspects and on the matters of addition and personnel may be exempted from transparency. The size group may also derogate from the transparency of other information on which confidentiality is important for reasons of serious concern. The transparency of information at Annex level applies to closed and audited accounts. The size groups shall consider providing full or partial transparency, including where exemptions can be made, and should provide transparency where public transparency considerations are considered to outweigh the need for exemption.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3195	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘These guidelines shall enter into force on 1 October 2021, except for Section 11 which shall enter into force on 1 January 2021 and Section 5 which shall enter into force on 1 July 2022. [[transparency]] [[equity]] From the date of entry into force of the Guidelines, guidelines for the use of grants to batches and independent representatives shall be repealed from 20 June 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3372	It is voted on in Section 14. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3386	The rest of the I, and the II. Red has now notified subsidiary aid to § 11 and II of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3519	We then go back to the reading of today's map, and the debate continues. The next speaker is Marius Meisfjord Christ.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3524	SV announces support for the three proposals that Red has made. SV believes that universal welfare services should be mainly provided by the public. Public high school is extremely important for children and young people to meet across backgrounds. An inclusive common school is one of the most important means we have to reduce the differences and increase trust among people. We're not going to come here and say who runs the Department of Knowledge, there's nothing to say. Since 2013, the number of students in private school has increased by almost 50 pst. That would never have happened to SV's management of that department. Although the law states that public funds and school money should benefit students, we see that this legislation is constantly being circumvented. Despite strict rules against private profit, there is cause for concern over the repeated examples of private schools and college owners being able to draw profits from schooling. SV is afraid that this problem is greater than what is discovered. Therefore, we have proposed that the law be reviewed to ensure that the intention to benefit all state aid is better achieved than today. Today, we see that the approval of a private school can create challenges for public school provision in many municipalities. Because private schools have been approved for a certain number of student places, today's legislation does not allow state politicians to reduce the number of student places in private schools. In a situation where there is a decrease in the number of students applying for secondary education, county councils only have the opportunity to cut public supply, not in the private sector. We have to change this. Therefore, we also propose that private primary and secondary schools be included in the school use plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3537	All children are entitled to good and motivating education at school. Children and young people are different, schools are different, and we will give more opportunities to make decisions in their own everyday lives. Free schools will provide students with more diversity and freedom of choice with different pedagogical arrangements. In addition, it provides important innovation and inspiration for public schools. In the left we are concerned that we should have a strong public common school in Norway. Likewise, we believe that there should be room for the fresh air. The Free School Act was amended in 2015. A school recognised under today's law of higher education is a school which offers primary and/or secondary education on a specific basis. Schools recognised under the Law on Free Schools are entitled to state grants. The Free School Act also gives the municipalities and county councils a right of objection when the school seeks to start or wants to expand the number of students. Many of the school offerings are fundamentally positive. The important thing is that children and young people get quality in school provision, not whether the school is run by private or public. There is no contrast between good quality and private school operations. The political debate on school and education cannot be about private or public ownership; it must be about how we ensure a good school offer. It is important that the public funds used in health care schools benefit children and young people. Both the Law of Higher Education and the Law of Higher Education regulate state subsidies to fresh schools and private colleges. Free schools or colleges receiving state subsidies are not legally able to make dividends. We believe that free schools need to be given opportunities for a development that allows for different owners and actors, so that both small and large ideal and commercial and small and large municipal schools are part of the offer around the country – that today’s legislation provides a good balance between the consideration of host municipalities and host communities and the ability to create alternatives for children and families who want a different offer from the public school, for the benefit of children and young people. The rules we have today give it the balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3550	I must first say that I am provoked by how the proposer generalises in his problem description of this matter. My clear impression is that the independent schools operate their businesses conscientiously and with good quality. There are no documented facts to suggest that primary schools deserve a crooked stamp in the education system. On the contrary, we see that these schools offer an offer that parents and children want to make use of to some extent. It does not mean any deterioration in public schools, but it is a fact that public schools are not suitable for everyone. The right of parents to choose school for their child is a right enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights and must therefore remain. Yes, the right to operate fresh oils from the point of view of life or alternative pedagogics is an important test of our democracy and our understanding of tolerance. It seems from the author of the proposal that it should be assumed that the provision of out-of-school education provides good grounds for suspecting. The proposals that have been raised in this matter are well taken care of in the law of high school which we have today, by means of, among other things, the post-secondary schools. must be organised as a legal entity. This ensures clarification of responsibilities, an overview of the boards, the relationship with the owner and links the law of higher education to the unitary register law. The Free School Act also clearly prohibits the collection of any kind of dividends, and whether or not such benefits should be detected, the supervisory authorities take time to detect and follow up on further penalties related to them. For the Christian People's Party, the framework conditions of free schools in our society are a testament to how the minority of society is treated in our democracy. It is therefore essential for us that this type of schools based on life views and pedagogics should not be prevented from being established according to the opinion of the individual municipality or family, as we see that the Workers' Party is calling for. Universal human rights enshrined in international conventions must be practiced in the same way, regardless of the municipality or state in which they are located. For what is left of the declaration of human rights of parents' right to choose education to be up to the individual municipality or county? There is no certainty and predictability. The Christian People's Party's free school policy is based on the human rights-based parental right that gives parents the right to provide their children with training and education that is consistent with their own beliefs. At the same time, high school provision is an important alternative and a complement to public schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3565	Redly put forward proposals for profit-free school because we want to strengthen the common school and prevent students' schooling from being marked by commercialisation and profit motive. Although the schools receiving government grants do not have access to profit, we have seen that it has been done on several occasions. Commercial operators also have profit incentives when introduced into a sector that is initially profit-free. There has been a sharp increase in private schools in Norway in recent years, despite the fact that supervision shows that many commercial companies violate the rules on grants. If we, for example, look at the Academy, which is the largest commercial school group in Norway, several times it has been revealed that all funds have not benefited students. And the Academy isn't alone about it, because that's how commercial operations operate. There are differences between non-profit-making schools offering alternative pedagogics and the commercial actors who have profit incentives. The Danish Private Schools Act confirms that recipients of government grants must be self-employed institutions, i.e. that they may not be owned by external companies or be part of groups. In order for the school to be profit-free, it must also be free from commercial companies. The red-greens are behind the proposals, which is an improvement on today's situation, and that is necessary, but there is something essential missing: ensuring a profit-free schooling. We are proposing this today. In the hearing opinion, the Education Association wrote: «Commercial interests shall not govern students’ educational provision. The Education Association is therefore in favour of the Red’s proposals for profit-free schools.’ We need less commercialisation and more local democracy. Elections must be given the opportunity to make comprehensive assessments of what gives the best student offer. Municipalities and counties must be entitled to say no to the establishment of new private schools because they are best able to determine their school structure. This proposal is about ensuring that all state aid benefits students and students. After all, that's all it's all about. I'll bring this up on Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3580	The representative Seher Aydar then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3585	The main job of the government is to strengthen the public school and enable it to lift all students. At the same time, students who want to choose something other than the public school should have the opportunity to do just that. Free schools are a small but important part of the overall training provision in Norway. It gives both parents and students the opportunity to choose alternative schools. These schools assume a high level of social responsibility by fulfilling pupils' obligations and entitlement to initial training. It is therefore subject to strict requirements in order to obtain approval for a post-secondary school. Approved fresh oils are also subject to strict public regulation and control. If a high school violates the rules, the law allows for different reactions, including: the authorisation may be withdrawn. The Free School Act has no provisions limiting the use of organisational forms. Depending on the form of the company, the primary schools are obliged to be registered in the Entity Register. I would like to stress that there are good reasons why fresh schools have this freedom of organisation, because there is a disparate group of businesses that have great variation in size and peculiarity. I don't see the need to discuss proposals for new forms of organisation for colleges. With regard to transparency in school operations, I would like to point out that in 2015, on a proposal from the government, new transparency requirements and increased record-keeping obligations were introduced for the post-secondary schools. It follows from the Act that the supervisory authority shall have access without confidentiality to the facilities and documentation of the school. In order for a post-secondary school to be approved, a concrete balance must be made in each case between the reasons justifying the establishment of a post-secondary school, and for example: consideration of public schools and their operation in the host municipality or in the host state. The Free School Act grants the host municipality or the host state the right to express its opinion before any authorisation is granted, and the law does not provide for approval if the establishment would have a negative impact on the public school offer. My clear view is that today's legislation creates a reasonable balance between the consideration of the host municipality and the host state on the one hand and the ability to choose between different schools on the other. In my opinion, we should not grant the municipalities and county councils the right to veto when applying for the approval of new schools or an authority to reverse decisions and reduce the number of students in already approved schools, as it would weaken predictability both for schools in health and, in particular, for students. State resources shall be used for the purpose for which they have been allocated. Schools which receive a national authorisation and grant from the State for the purpose of carrying on their activities shall do so under the conditions laid down by law. It is a central requirement of the Law of Free Schools that the state grant should benefit students in its entirety. The ban on the yield of fresh oils has been laid down in the law since 1970 and is both clarified and elaborated in subsequent legal works. This also affects transfers of values out of school in connection with sales. In my opinion, the law of free school, with the clarifications adopted on a proposal from the government in 2015, is well suited to ensure that state grants benefit the students in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3609	I agree with the Council of State that the law we have today is good and has a good balance, but I think it's a little strange that the government so quickly rejects all the proposals and issues that are being raised by the opposition today. Is it such that the Council of State believes that today's law of 2015 is perfect, and without loopholes, lacks or potential for improvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3614	I don't think there are any laws in some areas that are perfect, and I think we have to keep looking at how they fit if society changes – whether there's a need to make updates. However, the law has been subject to continuous updates, including: to ensure that the money benefits the students, and also to ensure that we get a wide and diverse offer. One thing I'm proud of is, among other things, that we have opened up the possibility of so-called profiling schools, which provide greater diversity and freedom of choice, without having to add, for example: a religious or pedagogical alternative. I have to say that I am a little surprised in this matter. I understand the need to ensure that the money benefits the students. I believe we have done that in today's legislation. What I have to say is, I'm quite surprised, is that a party like the Workers' Party, which I experience, has been concerned that it's actually a fundamental right to choose school for the children, is now in favour of a veto right for municipalities and county councils. That is to say, in practice, we are actually abolishing the entire law on free schooling and abolishing the possibility of a free choice. I must say, I am quite surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3622	I just think we need to establish that the Left and the Workers' Party deeply disagree with private schools, and not least with regard to profile schools. But what I think is very strange about the government's approach to this, is that one sticks to a laurel like this with the supervision, and that the supervision is kind of the foundation wall in that one fits that grant and the money benefits the students. In the context of the amendment of the law, it was opened up to the obligation to notify the sale, merger, fission and closure of private schools. That obligation to notify does not apply to the government, but the supervision itself states that the lack of information on such transactions poses a risk of non-enforcement of the offence, thus hampering supervision. Why has the government not, at this point in time, made use of the possibility they have, the home of the law, to impose such a reporting obligation, so that one can remove this risk of non-enforcement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3629	As the representative was also involved, there is today the possibility to provide for reporting obligations on both sales, mergers, fissures and the closure of health schools, and according to the Financial Regulation of the Law on Free Schools, the freshness school is required to notify the supervisory authority without delay if it is decided to discontinue schooling. Our assessment is that there has been no need for further regulation in addition to what is already in the law, but of course there is something you need to consider on an ongoing basis. In fact, an important prerequisite here is that the state supervises the schools well and ensures that the legislation we have is followed. There have been several large-scale inspections under the direction of the Education Directorate, and a key priority for us is to ensure that the supervisory work continues to continue in the future. It is important both in the individual cases where the regulation is not followed, and also in order to ensure that other actors understand that they have to comply with the legislation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3634	The Council of State writes in the letter of reply that the establishment of fresh oils should not lead to excessive structural changes in particular. secondary school. What are the similarities between imposing character-based admissions on the counties to higher education and the setting-up of fresh schools, which means that elected representatives in the counties should not be allowed to control this, but that state overgovernment is what the government thinks it should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3639	What I'm concerned about is the freedom of choice for students and parents, and that we politicians should interfere as much as possible with things that people can really decide for themselves. I think one of the reasons why more students have chosen to go to fresh schools is that they think it's an important and good alternative offer to public school. Then of course I'm concerned that the public school should be so good that a lot of people also choose it. I believe that giving local politicians a veto right to establish a high school in practice would mean that it would be very difficult for parents or for a minority to establish something that is across the interests of the majority. Often it's actually our job as politicians to protect a minority that doesn't have the chance to achieve a majority, but it's also that we listen to local democracy quite often. Just recently, the department said no to the establishment of a new free school in South Odal, precisely because of the objections of local democracy, which was then so important that we thought it was right to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3644	For the Central Party, there is something about the long-term planning of municipalities and counties that is crucial. It is the municipalities and the counties who have the legal responsibility for their inhabitants, for school students and therefore also for school and schools. Nevertheless, they are not included in their school use plans for long-term planning and dimensioning of student places. Does not the Council of State see the challenge of the predictions made by the SSB for births and pupils in many municipalities and counties, whether local elected representatives are not allowed to control student places at all schools in their municipalities and counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3649	I understand that wish, but I think we also need to respect that actors who have invested a lot and started a school need predictability and, for example, predictability. not to suddenly risk halving the number of students and thus losing the basis for their operations. That, I think, is an unsustainable way of treating people who have started up and run a school. I would like to point out once again that this is about people making use of their freedom of choice. If the public school in the municipality is so good that people choose to go on it, this won't be a big problem, but I think it's also wrong to deprive people of the opportunity to make that very choice. The important job we have to do is to ensure the quality of public school if we want people to choose just the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3654	On paper, there is a broad consensus that schools should be profit-free, but reality looks different. Professionally motivated actors have nothing to do in a sector that is initially profit-free. When we hear the minister talk about kindergarten and school, it may sound like the same principle applies; the money goes to the children and the students. But in the school sector, the law is stricter, yet it is insufficient to ensure that the money goes to the best of students, not the owners. My question is: what will the Minister do to ensure that the Community's resources go to welfare and education, not to commercial welfare professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3661	For a very long time, there has been a profit ban in boarding schools. I think that is also right, and we have been concerned that it should be continued. The regulatory framework for transparency has been tightened up quite strongly in recent years, which means that, as a community, we have even better control over how the money is spent. Nevertheless, there are examples of actors that do not comply with the legislation we have. I believe that the fact that there are actually findings in supervision is evidence that supervision is working and that the legislation is working. First of all, of course, the aim must be for those who have broken the legislation to end it and, secondly, for the state to exercise supervision to lead all other actors to comply with the legislation we have. It is very important to ensure the principle of which the representative is concerned, namely that the money we have set aside for school should go to school quality for all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3666	The Minister referred to supervision and that there are schools that do not use all the funds for students. When it was revealed that not all the money will benefit the students, such as. The school group of the commercial Academy, does the Council of State consider that they should continue to receive government grants even if they repeatedly violate the law that it should be a profit-free school? Are they going to continue to get approval to run school?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3671	On a general basis, I would like to say that it is very serious when it is revealed that state subsidies have been used in violation of the dividend ban in the law on high school. In previous rounds, including: supervised in 2011, the ministry of the complainant also upheld the decision of the undertaking authority in full with the result that the schools have received significant repayment requirements. Here, there is room for choosing penalties, whether you are not going to pass on the approval to the school, or you are going to get a refund claim. It will depend on the seriousness of the crime that has been revealed. I have not seen evidence of the allegations made by the representative here that there are many actors who often commit breaches of the legislation. I think it is important that we deal with the issues that have been revealed – that they are dealt with in a proper and good way. I believe that both the directorate and the department have done so far, and I will also assume that we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-24.ana.ud48e3678	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Thus, today's map has been processed.
