ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e47	The representative of Erlend Wiborg, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament has submitted an application for sick leave to the representative of Une Bastholm for the period from 9 June and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative Per Espen Stoknes is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e72	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e90	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e97	Through its work in 2019, the Defence Ombudsman wanted to highlight the following main themes: bullying and sexual harassment, personnel, protection and veterinary work. It is reassuring to see that the Ombudsman is very positive during his inspection of the defence. The following is stated: ‘There is good leadership with clear attitudes, a high level of willingness to work, and mainly a good working environment. The soldiers in charge of protection are highly motivated and contribute very well to the performance of their duties.» This fits well with the people's impression of defence. The defense solves its mission and takes care of its men and women. The defence is a major body and naturally has some challenges to address. The Ombudsman’s report for 2019 has focused more on preventing bullying and sexual harassment, the so-called MOST study. This study, conducted in the autumn of 2018, has been very important for detecting bullying and unwanted sexual behaviour in the Defence. The investigation covered about 15 000 employees and security officers in the establishment and revealed some very serious findings relating to violence, sexual assault and bullying among the defence staff and the defence. The Ombudsman has expressed satisfaction with the work carried out after this report. Nevertheless, efforts to prevent and detect violence, bullying and sexual harassment should be expected to continue with undiminished strength. That is why I am attending the next MOST survey, which is planned for the autumn. With regard to the defence staff, it is noted that the protection obligation and the first-time service still have a high status, but that a relatively small proportion of the annual coals, only approximately. 7 400 women and men, providing initial services. The proportion of women is increasing and amounted to approx. 20 pst. The Ombudsman’s report points to challenges related to breach of the working time provisions of the compulsory teams. The denominator notes that the long-term solution to this needs to be more crew. That is also the government's recommendation. I see that from a broad political majority in this Chamber there is a desire to strengthen the defence personnel through several reserveists, several compulsory and increased annual works. For this reason, in its submitted long-term plan, the government is adding 3,000 compulsory workers, 2,200 annual workers and 1000 more reserve workers over the next eight years. If this strengthening is carried out, it will clearly remedy the situation. The Ombudsman’s report also takes into account the scientific work in defence. The following refers to the good cross-policy work carried out in the last 10 years, starting with the presentation of St.meld. 34 for 2008-2009 to the recently submitted veterinary notification to be processed by the Stortinget for the autumn. Through these communications and the ongoing attention given to the veterans and their work and the need for society to value this work, there is no doubt that the status and conditions of the veterans have been improved in the last ten years – as a cross-political effort by both the previous governments and the current one. The Ombudsman also points to ways in which more facts should be improved and the need for better provision of personnel serving in international operations. I'm completely behind that. This is also mentioned in the recent vet report, and it is very important that it is followed up. In sum, I would say that the Ombudsman’s report concludes positively. At the same time, there are important challenges that have been identified, which I am sure will be followed up, and which I am meeting the follow-up of in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e121	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his thorough work, but there are two things I do not fully understand. Firstly, when it comes to working time regulations, the Committee writes: ‘The Committee notes that the long-term solution would require the defence to claim sufficient numbers of personnel to fill all the service functions.’ The problem with this is that trained personnel are something you can't just claim. You can't go and buy it at the store, you actually have to train people. I just record that the government parties are not on the note that has outlined that more educational capacity in the Defence must be given priority in order to solve the problem. I think that's nice. Government parties have rightly highlighted the value of the MOST study and are in favour of continuing their efforts to prevent and detect violence and sexual harassment. It's brilliant. Here, however, I would like to add that the defence Ombudsman is a crucial factor for this investigation to be carried out in the way it has been done. The Ombudsman has created a room where it is allowed to say from in a culture where it was previously not. It's important work, and it deserves all the honor. The government parties say that they want an MOST study, and so do we, but it is important that the new report not only describes the situation and identifies cases, but also the impact of the measures, i.e. the actions taken by the Defence Agency to address the problem. Then I don't understand why the government parties are not involved in the comments of the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party where we write that a poor culture in the Defence will have a negative impact on defence and national security, and that therefore a good culture needs to be facilitated and addressed in existing challenges. It is impossible for me to see why one will not agree with what we write about the actions the defence has taken, must be followed up. We write that the effect on these measures needs to be evaluated. I don't understand why not everyone is in it. We're not going to take action to make it look like we're doing something, we're going to take action because we want them to work. It's not the concept of washing we're busy here, it's the concept of pure. Defence leaders are already on their way to building a healthy culture. They're going in front, and they're headed in front. The most touching speech I have heard against sexual harassment, was by the Chief Maritime Defense at Haakonsvern. It came spontaneously in response to a question about what he would do to correct what had emerged in the MOST study. He said that sexual harassment occurs in the head of someone who thinks wrong, and grows in a culture that accepts it. He and his people in the Marines need back coverage because the work they're doing to fight this every single day is important to spend time on -- because that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e141	I have to admit that I really didn't intend to take the floor in this case, but I do it anyway – not that the Progress Party will also be on the track, but I have some things I want to address. The obligation to protect: it says 12-13 pst. serve as a protection obligation. It's a very low volume. It should be much higher – not just because the defense needs it, but because society needs people who are more vulnerable than today. It is of great importance to society that more people are inside the Defence, both for the understanding of Defence and for the understanding of society in general. The fact that there are probably – without me being careless about it – the most qualified, those who are somehow the best success in society, and who may also come from the best homes, which actually serve the duty of protection, I think is sin. It should have been different. It should be the way it is in the United States and elsewhere, that being in the Defense actually is an opportunity to succeed in society. And it should be better prepared to see this in a whole. In the case of the veterinary work, I am the case rapporteur for the vet report for the autumn, and I look forward to that work. I've gotten more and more understanding of the significance of it. There are many veterans in this country who deserve attention, and so it's like becoming a veteran quite early because you finish your career quite early and become a veteran for the rest of your life. It makes there a large group out there that needs to be cared for in all sorts of ways. And as far as the MOST study is concerned, it says that bullying and sexual harassment should be taken seriously, and that everyone involved should be protected. I'm jumping over it, because this is something you hear every single time, but what happens to those who are actually being taken for bullying and sexual harassment? It never says anything about it. What happens to them? Are they getting laid off? Does it have consequences for them? Or are they being relocated? They get a little talk and then they're back in the defense, or what's actually going on? I also want to be clear about that from the Minister of Defence. What are the consequences of bullying and sexual harassment? Without consequences, this will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e152	The President of the Defence Service is an important control function for the Storting. The selection listed on order from Stortinget – Harberg Selection, or the Hareide Selection, may have been before – does an important job, and it is also important that we, as politicians, are involved in the process of making the Ombudsman’s name as good as possible. It's also interesting to read the report from the Defence Ombudsman, and I want to highlight some points. Several have taken note of the report on bullying and sexual harassment, the MOST report, which Ombodsmannsnemnd has been working on in particular in recent years. The report revealed many critical aspects. A poor culture of defence will have negative consequences for defence and national security, and that is why efforts must be made to facilitate a good culture and to address existing challenges as a priority. It must also have consequences, as the previous speaker pointed out, if one bullies or harasses others in the Defense, as otherwise in society. The defence has seen a number of measures in place, and it is of course very important that they are followed up. It is also important that the effect is evaluated and that new studies are carried out, so that one follows developments closely. In the last annual reports of the Storting, it has been clear that there is an imbalance between the available personnel and the tasks that the Defence is required to carry out. This leads to a high labour tax on staff, a breach of labour law and, besides challenges, to retaining staff due to high loads over time. This is very serious, and the personnel situation in the defense must find its solution as soon as possible. The training capacity in the Defence is also too low. There is great concern in the Defence that the existing strength structure is not being fulfilled. In the Home Office, there will be, among other things: displayed to a sub-coverage of 1000 team leaders, and today a media reader can read that Home Security may not even have exercises for the rest of the year, due to savings in the Ministry of Defence. It's not in this report, but I had to learn it. Perhaps the Council of State can confirm some of the speculations that you can read about today? The low number of first-time service providers each year also gives rise to concerns about the performance of the strength structure. The educational capacity of the Defence today needs to be strengthened as in the coming years there will be a need to extend the structure further. The centre party is pleased that in 2019 the defense worked especially with recruitment from the least populated areas of the country. In addition, there is also an increasing number with a professional background that needs to be assessed for the implementation of the first-time service. In view of the challenging personnel situation, this is a positive development that could have a positive impact on, among others. The time of stand in the defense. There's a new way to think about it, but I think it's a right way to think about it. Our veterans must take good care of themselves. They have done an important job for the country, and they must have a good framework for how the government is going to do it, but also how the Storting should provide the framework for it. So it's sad to read that the number of requests to the agent's office dealing with veterans is increasing. Themes that are recorded are late handling by Nav, the State pension fund and others. This is a situation the center party thinks one has to deal with, and that it is possible to better. The veterans have made an effort for our country, and they have made an effort for security in the country and abroad. They don't have to get in the situation that they don't get the help they need from the big community when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e169	Let me start by thanking the Ombudsman for addressing key and important issues, matters that I am also concerned with. There is reason to commend the Committee for having requested the theme of bullying and harassment in its last year's setting. The Ombudsman has devoted considerable space to the topic in his report this year. The Committee is pleased with the measures taken by the Defence Agency to deal with and combat bullying and harassment. By 2020, the Defense will conduct a further developed investigation into bullying and sexual harassment. This will increase the knowledge base, which will clarify the need for any new action. In addition, I hope that this process will contribute to greater transparency, so that even more people are willing to report adverse events. The work of combating bullying and sexual harassment is a continuous work, which both the Defense and the Government take most seriously. The aim is that no one should be subjected to bullying or harassment. I support the denominator's assessment that the human resources structure must be sustainable. This is one of the reasons why we have implemented large and important conversion processes in the current long-term. The objective of the conversion has been to increase operational capability and a sustainable defence structure. I have a great deal of understanding that conversion processes are demanding for the staff, but I also have great faith that they will see the value of the reforms when they provide increased operational capability. At the same time, we need to work to strengthen robustness. Therefore, the Government of the submitted long-term plan has proposed to strengthen Defence. The defence should be strengthened by 550 more employees in the first four years, and 700 more security officers. In addition, we will increase the activity of reservers in the strength structure. We will also further develop cooperation with other actors. Overall, this will help to strengthen defence preparedness and endurance. I take seriously the fact that there are breaches of the working time regulations for those under protection. The defense is now working to take action, and I am very confident that the defense will do its utmost to ensure that the defence is protected. We also propose to extend the 16-month first-time service scheme for Air Force and Maritime Defense, just as we have already done for the Army. The service of 16 months will be applicable to departments with high requirements for competence and co-ordination. With current practice, several of the operational departments operate with basic military training. It is important to strengthen flexibility and the relevance of the protection obligation for the manning of standing compartments. The Government therefore recommends that basic military training be conducted outside the operational departments. The sum of these actions will gradually provide defence with a significantly strengthened human resources situation in the future. The Committee points out that the provision of veterans has been significantly strengthened over the past ten years. I'm glad. This is a result of systematic work by several governments. At the same time, there are some challenges that it is important to address. After the Ombudsman’s report was delivered, the government sent the new vet report to the Stortinget. The message addresses many of the same challenges as the one pointed to. In order to make everyday life easier for the veteran families, the government will, among other things, introduce compensation for additional home days with sick children. We will also provide compensation for parental leave that the veterans will not get out because of service. Families will also be offered a couple conversation before leaving the family protection offices. The Committee further points to the need for increased research. The government will contribute to more research, including: on the impact of international services on mental health, the living conditions of veterans and family life, especially for children. I am pleased with the good work the Ombudsman is doing for our veterans. The number of requests from the veterans shows that the denominator fills a need. I therefore support the denominator's proposal to change the mandate and the instructions, so that this can form a formal part of the Ombudsman's work. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to express my great thanks to all the personnel in the Defence Department for the job they are doing. As noted, the defence personnel show an attitude, a responsibility and a loyalty that is impressive. I see it as a privilege to be the Council of State for a sector with so many capable people, both employees and guardians.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e195	The Minister of Defence was in charge of the important job that the defence personnel are doing. They are partly under heavy pressure in many places. They have been under pressure in the Maritime Defense Department following the KNM Helge Ingstad accident and have had to be taken care of there. And we see that there is a pressure on the resource situation very many places. So the Minister of Defense proposes to increase the staff by 550 over a four-year period. I do not fully understand that it should be possible to meet the defence's need for not many places to make working time regulations that make it difficult for defence personnel. My question is: Will the Minister of Defence be involved in a larger agreement in Stortinget where we can increase this number? We now have a unique opportunity to bring in people who are unemployed, perhaps from other professions, and recruit them back to Defense, whether it's from the oil industry or the aviation industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e202	Now it is the Ombudsman's message that we are discussing. We have presented a long-term plan for Stortinget, which we would like to negotiate. But it has sent the committee back. In the case of working time regulations, the name indicates a breach of the duty of protection. It is serious, and it is a matter that the defense has been told to contact. Also mentioned is the fact that the defense takes action in this respect. It's not just the number of heads we fill in, which means we get a better personnel structure in the defense. We also increase sustainability by transforming from more administrative posts into operational posts. We increase the reserve system and change and get a new reserve system. We get a higher operational capability in the battalions when we get a dedicated recruiting school on the outside. All the reforms we are implementing improve the personnel situation. But of course, we're going to join and discuss the number of staff if there's a wish from the Storting to increase it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e211	The Minister of Defence was in his intervention right now concerned that those who could not take out parental leave, who were employed in the Defence, would be compensated for that. There may be good arguments for this, but it may also lead to the defence not being good enough to facilitate parental leave. It is a requirement we make for the rest of Norwegian working life, that we should be able to take out parental leave, but now we are introducing a compensation scheme for employers who are unable to meet this, which is a right for all men. We know that equality is a very important reason why someone ends in the defense, that they are unable to meet the family obligations they have. Is it wise then to start compensating defence employees who are not allowed to withdraw parental leave? It's just men who can't take their father's quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e217	If the description of the proposal we have submitted in the vet report had been correct – it would have been the way Huitfeldt's representative has now presented it – I would have fully agreed with her, but we would not have presented it either. What we have presented is a proposal that deals with people in foreign service. A foreign deployment usually takes nine months — three months of training first and then six months out. In those months it may be difficult to terminate parental leave. During those months it may be difficult to take days at home with a sick child, simply because you are gone. We've said that for the few that apply, and that's very few, we'll open up the possibility that whoever's at home can take out the leave days. As far as defence employees in Norway are concerned, there is no possibility for us to open up — on the contrary. Experience has shown us that there we should rather train the Defense in getting better at facilitating that it is easy to take out those welfare permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e224	In the last annual reports of the Ombudsman Survey, it has been clear that there is an imbalance between the available personnel and the tasks that the Defense is required to carry out. So it's not just this year, but it's repeated. This leads to a violation of the labour law, which leads to problems in granting parental leave, and there is a high workload, of course. There's something about it that can also lead to structural imbalances. Does the Minister for Defence think that the defence structure is robust today in all defence sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e229	No, we have also addressed challenges in the personnel structure of the defense, all the time that the activity has increased faster than we had planned. Then we have also filled in with additional crews on the vessel, filled in with extra staff around. But the defense is in a challenging transition process now, simply because we have to move personnel from administrative positions to more operational positions. We're changing departments so that they can stand at a higher operational level every day, instead of building up to a high operational level and then being taken down again because you're taking in recruits. We're changing the Defense with a new military system, a specialist corps and an officer corps, i.e. that we change the tasks of defence personnel, and we change the education in defense. Obviously, these are major changes that build a better defence, but I'm perfectly clear that it's challenging to stand in these conversion processes. I often get feedback that this gives good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e236	The marine defense strengthened the crew by relocating its own people, as far as I have been told on a visit by the Maritime Defense. But there is concern that there is a lack of up to a thousand team leaders in Homeland Protection and that there are relatively few people in the first time. The Defence Staff is now discussing all training and training on the whole area structure of the Home Protection Agency to be cut in the rest of 2020 due to the need to spend money to cover currency costs, the cost of corona, the cost of falling the world economy, the oil crisis and holiday money at the top. Can the Council confirm that the Heimevater territorial structure will be trained as planned in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e241	We'll try to take it step by step. It is not correct that the Naval Defense Force has strengthened the crew only by moving administratively to operational personnel. They've taken off the reserve they had, and then we've added them extra staff. The Defence Manager is dependent on keeping an eye on the economy throughout the year. If things change, you have to take the grips to take. It's done all the time. One of the suggestions being played from the Defence Staff is that if no other adjustments can be made, you have to stop all the exercises in the Home Office out of the year. For the sake of corona, for the sake of the pandemic, August has been stopped simply because it was not possible to bring people into practice while at the same time caring for the interests of infectious diseases. If it comes to us, we will consider the matter and see if we can redispatch and add funds. I'd like Homeland to practise. I also want Home Security to be able to pick people up on the course, so that they get the command they need to build structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e250	I asked the Council of State a question during my article. It was whether sexual harassment and bullying have consequences for those who actually practice this. If it doesn't help anything, then it's just words on a paper. So can the Council of State elaborate on the consequences of bullying and sexual harassment when it happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e255	That's a very good and precise question. The MOST survey surprised the defense. It also surprised the rest of Norway. This is the first time you've gone to the stage of doing this type of research, asking people how they have 24 hours a day. And then you've also discovered uncultures in the Defense. There's a warning, there's an example that you didn't touch the representations you were supposed to. That's what the head of defense has taken hold of. Both he and the DIF managers have been aware that this should be addressed. The consequences, and the grips, follow the personnel manual for that type of reprimand. It goes from warnings to cancellations and even notification in the cases required.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e266	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e285	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e292	Prop. 78 S for 2019–2020 concerns the approval of two new projects and the modification of the cost framework for a previously approved project. I want to first thank the Committee for good cooperation before I go through what project we're talking about. Five artillery location radars shall be provided with armoured vehicles, logistics and educational materials. Radars shall replace old radars which have reached their technological lifetime and are matured for replacement. Radars give the Army the ability to locate and shoot enemy weapon systems quickly and accurately and respond with motels. The new system could provide support for operations at national and international level and increase operational availability and capability. In connection with the purchase, there will be a requirement to enter into a defence-industrial cooperation agreement with the supplier before the main contract is signed. The next investment project is to improve taxiways Y and A4–A7 at Ørland Aviation Station. In 2017/2018, core drilling of the Y taxiway was carried out at Ørland airstation, which showed that underlying asphalt layers had damaged after the use of chemicals for de-icing the runway over many years. Hence, there is a need to replace the asphalt and taxiways Y and A4–A7. In this context, other improvements will also be made: the establishment of a new lighting along the taxi tracks, the correction of existing cross-falls for water run-off on taxiway Y and the establishment of concrete foundations for moving the mobile brake-vai systems out of the safety zone along taxiway Y, and the expansion of the effective track width to taxiway Y from 22,5 metres to 33 metres and the improvement of the provision to the safety area along taxiway Y to meet the requirements of the main runway and the reserve track, in accordance with NATO requirements. The proposal also proposes to increase the cost of maritime patrol facilities at the Evenes Air Station by 558 million. kr. The construction project involves the establishment of a hangar with space for three maritime patrol aircraft, P-8A, where two places are connected to maintenance and one to washing the plane. Furthermore, the project contains administrative facilities for both the aircraft quadron and the maintenance quadron, various workshop facilities for P-8A, technical warehouses and workshop and storage facilities for ground equipment and life-saving equipment. In connection with these facilities, three P-8A layouts are established, a loading platform for ammunition and an outdoor washing machine for aeroplanes. So a little bit to the score point. The Central Party will vote for the first two projects. On the other hand, the centre party will vote against increasing the cost framework of the MPA project at Evenes. The reason is that at current time there are too many unexplained items around this project. Last year, the Minister of Defense was standing on the pulpit in Stortinget and guaranteed that all costs were under control, and that there was no costing in the project. The representative Marianne Marthinsen even said from the pulpit that it was what decided how the Labour Party voiced a year ago. The Minister of Defence said: ‘[v]in has no knowledge that we will have any increasing costs now; we have no knowledge that we will get any cost.’ But here we are, one year later, and the project is delayed by one year, and the cost frame has to increase by 558 million. kr – so far – something that makes the project 100 million. kr from reaching the cost frame before it has started. The permissions of the Air Safety Authority are not final. One has to measure turbulence for 1.5 years to ensure that the location does not violate international security standards. It is not clear if there is room for allier hangar. There is great uncertainty about how to keep the runway operational throughout the year. There are too many unbiased items that do not know the scope of the cost at this time. And believe me, we've asked questions. I think it is serious, and I wonder that no more of the parties are asking questions about the fact that Stortinget now approves half a billion increases in the cost frame of a project that nobody – I stress nobody – knows today the cost scope. I'm drawing for a later article, because I see that it's too little time to start a new paragraph here. I would like to address the proposal from the Centre Party and the proposal from the Centre Party is in conjunction with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e315	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e320	Step by step, the defense is built up. For those who claim that it is not invested in the land, this proposition is a small contribution to public information – or perhaps political information. When you see the proposal to buy five artillery localization radars in connection with the rest of the artillery, you see how heavy it is on the land force, and especially on the artillery. Napoleon was an artillery. He said the fire is everything, the rest is nothing. It may not have full validity today, but it's a fact that 70 pst. the losses incurred by an opponent are borne by the Artillery. That's why it's so important to have these types of radars, which can localize the firing position of the opponent's artillery, so you can answer that. As I said, this goes into the range of large investments related to Artillery. The size has previously joined the government's proposal to purchase 24 new artillery equipment for the Artillery Projection in North Norway with a ammunition vehicle. The government has also had a positive impact on strengthening the Northern Norway Brigade with anti-aircraft. All of this is organized into an enhanced artillery battalion in Brig N. It has been raised beyond any doubt that the reinforcement that is taking place here, not least in combination with the long-range fire that the Army will have in a couple of–three years, gives an army – or rather a brigade in North Norway – with a much stronger fighting ability than it has today. With broad brush to claim in discussions and media that the land power is not bet on, that it is starving feed and a salinisation post, is simply not right. Finally, I would like to point out the improvement of the taxiway at Ørland airstation. It is an important improvement in order to be able to receive allied reception in a better way than today, and also a clearly reinforced contribution to the national combat capability associated with our own air defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e333	I note that the representative Harek Riveres is still living in the belief that he will be able to use the long-term plan that has been sent back. It will not be adopted later either, but it will be even more strengthened, so that the representative of the Elves will be overjoyed with the new long-term plan. But if he wants to relate to the one sent back, he has to do it, but it does not do the rest of the Storting. We're going to look forward and make it even better, and that's the very best thing. I was going to talk a little bit about my heartchild, and it's the defense industry and the defense industry deal that's among those five artillery localization radars. It's extremely important, because there are more and more out there that are starting to be negative to the so-called repurchase agreements, the industrial agreements. We can't be. It is extremely important for employment, the understanding of defence and the strengthening of defence, and what goes on spin off effects, what goes down in the supplier industry, what goes to subcontractors, etc. We must defend this. But there are some forces out there that think that if we don't get these agreements, the defense will save on it. We don't have to figure that out. It means a lot to Norway. It means a lot, because they are not subject to the same competition rules in the EEA. So they're not from it, so we have to bet on it. It's very important. Therefore, it was also important, which was not in the LTP, with all the projects that would provide these industrial opportunities – forcing these projects. They're not in any kind of action the government is going to take anywhere. It would be important, there would be billions of investments that would have made subcontractors of technology development and innovation down the whole chain actually grow. Now you've spent 300 billion dollars. kr that people have to be passive, be at home. Then you don't even want to spend 50 billion. kr for people to go out, get the wheels started. That doesn't make any sense at all. I also want to comment on the representative from the Center Party, who is concerned about cost developments at Evenes. It's also the Progress Party, we've also asked questions about it in Stortinget. We do not support the proposal of the Central Party, but we are concerned about these billions that are running more and more rapidly in the case of Evens. We in the Progress Party fear that it will be a new Minister of Defense who stands and must defend or excuse the increased costs of saying that it was at the time another government or it was at the time another Council of State that actually agreed to this. It's worrying, because it's not useful to get to State Council Hill-Jensen on the day he's not State Council. Then I don't think he's going to defend anything, and that's very worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e344	It was the question of development of costs related to Evenes that I also asked for the word, because SV has in the setting been in favour of the first proposal from the Central Party relating to what is about getting a cost overview of the projects that have been carried out and are coming. But we have come to the conclusion that it is natural as a result of our position on this also to vote in favour of proposal No. 2, and thus follow the Centre Party in voting against the setting. I think that is a natural consequence, that we support the proposal for a review, and that we want to wait for further allocation to a number of what is now unclear is clarified. It is a proposal to be considered in the autumn, relating to the discussion on Andøy and Evenes. In dealing with that proposal, we expect an opportunity to get more thorough answers from the ministry and to address this issue more properly than we have now. Therefore, it is natural that the Storting now does not rush with this, but ensures that we have all the facts on the table when we make a final decision. Therefore: This is a explanation of vote and a change of SV's vote relative to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e353	For the government, it is important to follow up the priorities and the defence structure adopted in the Stortingen treatment of the current long-term defence plan in 2016. The proposal proposes the approval of investments in materials and property, construction and civil engineering for something over 2 billion. kr. In addition, the government proposes that the expansion project at Evene’s airstation should extend the scope to 2.4 billion. kr in order to ensure aviation safety conditions in the construction of the new hangar for our maritime patrol aircraft. The government, with its previous decisions, has shown that there is a focus on the development and further modernisation of the Army. Large investments have been made in materials for the Army, and more will come in the coming years, including: new tanks. It's not long since the Army received the first units of its new artillery system. In order to make even better use of the new artillery system, the government will also acquire a number of artillery location radars. Such a radar is used to detect, inter alia: grenade of an opponent in the air and calculate from where it is fired. The artillery can then be used to provide rapid and effective motility. The acquisition will also benefit the Norwegian defence industry through cooperation agreements with the selected supplier. In Ørland, the expansion of the new fighter aircraft base continues. Ørland Air Station is very important for training our fighter aircraft departments and conducting air operations with both national flight forces and allied reinforcement forces. The activity depends on the good functioning of the base infrastructure. However, studies have shown that the underlying asphalt layers on the taxiways are damaged after long-term use of de-icing chemicals. This reduces the quality of existing asphalt cover and increases the risk of cracking and loose asphalt bits. This can lead to damage to the aircraft. In order to ensure good and safe conditions for day-to-day operation, the government will replace the asphalt cover and establish a new lighting along the taxiways. In addition, water navigation is improved and the effective runway width is extended to meet NATO's emergency and reserve runway requirements. At the plane station, the government is following up the Storting decision to establish a forward base for fighter aircraft and base for the new maritime patrol aircraft. On the basis of the transfer of the 333 quadrant from Andøya to Evenes, there was a clear recommendation to bring together the operational activities of the Defence Agency in fewer locations, both to reduce costs and to be able to protect them better. The establishment of the Evenes Air Station is largely based on its original schedule, with the exception of constructions and facilities for the new maritime patrol aircraft. Here one had to find a new land after the originally intended location of the hanger turned out unfortunately to give unacceptable wind conditions. The Air Traffic Control Authority approved the new location in February and the construction of the hangar can now start. The increasing costs of the project are a direct consequence of moving the hangar from the originally planned location. The expected final cost of the entire Evenes development remains within the overall cost framework of 5.08 billion. 2020 crowns from the concept selection investigation for the Evenes Air Station. A two-way solution was calculated at baseline in 2016 to be approximately 200 million. more expensive to operate each year. The decision to pool the activities at Evenes continues to provide the best operational capability at the lowest possible cost, even though the costs of deployment have been slightly higher than originally estimated. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Committee is joining in on the government's proposal for investment in defence. Projects are all important contributions to maintaining a credible and relevant defence in a more demanding security policy time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e375	I have a question about what the Minister of Defense said about the Evenes expansion. There are a lot of claims in that case. But the Minister of Defense said that for this project, there was no going beyond the cost framework. Does the Minister of Defence now have any information to suggest that this project goes beyond the cost framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e380	I heard the representative Navarsete quote from my line change with Marianne Marthinsen last year. Then I said that I had no knowledge that it was going to go further. I can give you the same answer now. There have been changes, we have had to move the hangar – extra costs have been added. We had to spend time, the draft selection investigation also showed that it would give us some extra costs, so we've notified you about that. With what I know now, I have no knowledge that it will go beyond the cost range that lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e386	I want to get back to the representative of Navarsete, who was involved in this with the Home Office in a reply in the previous case. I experienced that the Council of State tried to give an answer, but I would like to correct the question in a new way. That's how the defense management, according to the website NeverMer.no, estimates to cut any further exercise of the Home Security crews for the rest of the current year. All the defence holdings are challenged on where it is possible to cut. According to the head of the Heimevernet district of Bergenhus Heimevern district, this means that nothing more can be done this year. Based on the understanding of the site NeverMer.no, this could be the consequence for the entire HV structure. My question to the Council of State is simply: is this a correct description of the situation? Is there any danger that there won't be any more practice in Homeland this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e393	Here is the process as follows: the Defence Manager is obliged to follow the day-to-day operations. When he sees changes along the way, he is also obliged to ask for suggestions to adjust operations along the way. It belongs to the day-to-day operational, administrative operation of his management. One of his suggestions was that to save money, all the exercises in the Home Office stopped. He comes up with several proposals for the defense staff and delivers them to the department. We're looking at them, and then we're going to find solutions to them. As I also replied to Navarsete, I would like to practise as much as possible with Homeland Protection. I also want money available, so that we can train commanders in Home Security and have up-to-date operational areas around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e400	The representative Huitfeldt might have read the record from the debate a year ago a little bit more carefully, but it may be that the Labour Party and the Right have a common interest in perhaps concealing the difficult situation that is actually at present in expanding the Evenes. What the Council of State said were the following: "But we have no knowledge that we will have any increasing costs now, we have no knowledge that will give us any cost." Last year's case spokesmen were Marianne Marthinsen from the Labour Party. She said the following: ‘The Minister of Defence has stated that moving the hangar will not increase costs and increase the time it takes to implement that project. So the Minister of Defence has confirmed this from the Chair of the Storting, and we are aware of that." Later she said that it was decisive for what the Labour Party was going to voice. Now all this falls into fish, and I want to ask you a question: can the Council of State now guarantee that there will be no more increases in costs at Evenes? And what does he mean about what he said last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e417	First of all, the option we discussed last year is not the one we're discussing. Now the hangar has moved even further away. Then we talked about twisting the hangar. With what I knew then, there was nothing to suggest that extra costs would be incurred, and nothing that would allow it to take longer. With what I know now, we don't see any reason why there will be any expense on the project that it is now. 90 pst. the project has completed its design and control. There are not so many uncertainties left. But that's how I can't come here and see. I have to answer based on the knowledge that exists when the question comes. With what I know now, there will be no extra costs on that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e424	We'll notice that, because I think with respect to notifying you that there will be more costs. Among other things, Avinor has stated that there is no guarantee of adequate adhesion for aircraft taxiing to or from the MPA stand-up/hangar arrangement if no path-reduction chemicals are to be used in the stand-up and associated taxiway. The reason for this is weather conditions, as pointed out by the Centre Party, mainly associated with periods of continuous snowfall and ice build-up during the winter period and in other weather conditions, e.g. during cooling or temperature change from hot/cold to cold/hot air and rhyme. I could say a lot more about many other elements that are also unexplained. There is no clear way to keep track of friction free. It is not clear which flights should be assigned to alleles. There are some unanswered questions. But this is perhaps one of the most serious things, as well as what's going on about ammunition and how to deal with it. Can the Council of State still confirm that one has everything under control and that one has all the costs under control?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e433	Evens operates today with Boeing 737, the same aircraft as P-8. So here, Avinor is involved, Defence Building is involved, Defence with its knowledge is involved, and the Air Force is involved. The plans that now exist have taken into account the challenges that are to come. With the knowledge I now have, I can't say that I know that there will be extra costs, that we will blow up the cost framework that is now set.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e440	Boeing 737 has been used in civil aviation. In civil aviation, a sand is used. It uses one at the Gardermo, it uses one at other civil airports. The defense doesn't use it because 1), one has a lot of equipment attached to the planes that don't tolerate it, and 2), the defense is supposed to have them flying for 30 years, while in civil aviation, a pretty fast shifting out of what one has of planes; they can take it. We got this very well described by the manager of Evenes, when the committee was up there. It's also so that there's no fixed snow deposit with a tight cover, so if you're going to use chemicals, you have to build it. It is not included in the schedules entry. We're talking about Evenes in North Norway. I could have continued and continued, and the Council of State still claims that they should not have increased costs. It's almost as if it's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e449	The defence aircraft can land at all airports in Norway. They may also land at airports using de-icing devices. The discussion about sand and the size of sand on Evenes has been a discussion about F-35, which is another type of plane, it has not been a discussion about P-8. De-icing on the new area of the hangars has been taken into account, draining has been taken into account because there are vulnerable areas around. This is included in the cost estimate. Therefore, it is a little strange that in this house you cannot trust the organisation Defence Building, but always have either an e-mail or a statement from someone else. As I said, with the knowledge I now have, there is nothing to suggest that the cost framework laid down will be overestimated. [[President clubs]] And to the representative Tybring-Gjedde: I am just Minister of Defence as long as I am Minister of Defence, but at least I have to stand for what I have said also afterwards. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e460	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e465	It's very interesting, and it's really regrettable that I didn't bring my notes from the meeting at Evenes. It was said to be very interesting there, among other things. that there wasn't any doubt that you had discussed it later. But I'm going to lay it down. What has been quite clear about the Ramsar area is that you have a lot of trouble using chemicals. That's why the Ministry of Defence has a research project on this. That is why we are told that they have no solution to this today. Will the Minister of Defence say that we have a solution, and why has he spent money researching new solutions – something that no other NATO country has managed to find?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e474	The research project on finding other ways of de-icing and de-icing is justified by wear and corrosion on aeroplanes. It has nothing to do with the Ramsar area. Then you have to go to Evenes and get good reports. I don't know if anyone at Evenes is able to predict what the outcome would be of a decision in the Stortinget in 2016. But I think there should be every reason to also trust the answers that come from the trade unions in the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e482	With that, this is the line chord shift. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e489	Since I joined the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, there is something that has surprised me, and I have not really managed to get a proper answer, and that is how projects can grow in costs without having consequences. Orland can be a good example of that. If we look at what was reflected when a fighter aircraft investment started, and what happened, it's probably not quite the same thing – and it's the same thing in many other projects. Now it should be said that there has been something better. But in a nearly 30 years as a politician at different levels, I've been used to getting answers to questions. I have never before experienced such difficult conditions as it is when I send questions relating to Andøya and Evenes. And there are many moments. Weapon handling capacity for MPA is not, as far as I know, approved by the MPA Ammunition Selection System. It's a lot smaller distance at Even's. This makes the situation much more demanding. In any case, the size is not orientated over neither the time aspect nor the cost image for acceptance. The ammunition selection is hopefully coming to work now to save weapons and explosives to the MPA system, and I think the Stortinget must be informed how the government will ensure that the directions in the ammunition service are followed for MPA. There is also a lack of space a central factor, even if there are mountain ranges, because it should actually be up to the planes to mount them. We must have an assembly and inspection building that meets fairly rigid requirements for explosive preparation and has high safety distances against other infrastructure and personnel. It is said that it should be about ten meters high and space seven halls, and with the known turbulence problems that we now see around the hangars, it is difficult to see where to build this building. The establishment of an ammunition area associated with the Evene airstation may also lead to a significant extension of military territory, which will then have consequences for households and traffic, and for which there is, in any case, no height taken. It is therefore so difficult when none of the parties, except SV, will support us in getting a comprehensive proposal on the costs of expanding Evenes, when there are so many factors that stand as an x, and no one – I believe – in the Committee can do the right thing. It's an incredibly difficult question, and I haven't got an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e502	I'll be brief. In the case of ammunition handling for P-8, a separate platform is established at Evenes for mounting and uploading weapons on P-8. The solution has been developed in cooperation with the Defence Ammunition Committee. It's -- I'm familiar, and now I've asked as many people as I could find -- not something called the MPA Ammunition Committee. The defense has one ammunition commission. They have helped to prepare the solution chosen at Evenes. The establishment of this platform is included in the MPA building project. It may also be that if you are willing to listen to the answers you get, things become brighter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e528	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to three lines of response will be given after the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines of response after contributions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e535	Access to the necessary medicinal products and their national production is important for Norway’s preparedness and Norwegian value creation. Life-saving medicines are provided with national capacities from one of our main industries, the pharmaceutical industry, but also through international agreements and supply lines. The last few months have shown the importance of having good agreements, and we've been testing the supply lines. Evaluation will provide us with more detailed knowledge of areas of improvement, but it seems to have worked relatively well in general. Research, development and production of medicinal products are extensive and highly resource-intensive processes. I am pleased that a unanimous committee acknowledges that Norway is unable to provide such preparedness and production alone, and that we recognise that international cooperation is absolutely essential to ensuring the necessary medicinal products for the Norwegian people. It is important to ensure that we have access to the necessary vaccines and medicines in the future. We should not rely solely on foreign production. But we're dependent on imports, and we export a lot of what we produce today. In most cases, international companies have patents, and also often those that account for the brunt of the research. From the date of approval of a patent application, a manufacturer has the exclusive right to use the medicinal product for 20 years, of which 10 years or more go to clinical studies and additional years to permit before the product is put into sale. Then it's again maybe as little as six years to earn the development costs. Norwegian companies compete in the same global market. There are, of course, opportunities to strengthen Norwegian production and research, and there are therefore already a number of processes in progress in this field, initiated by both government and big business. Everyone agrees that the health industry is important, both for value creation, for preparedness and as an arena for research and development. It is commendable that the opposition will raise awareness of the importance of both industry, preparedness and research, giving us the opportunity to show the good work that is already being done in these areas. However, it is surprising that the proposers seem to believe that, if adopted, this proposal will ensure that Norway has faster access to the vaccine in a critical situation. Vaccine production — especially in the research phase — is very costly and is only profitable on a large scale for international markets. A future vaccine for covid-19 would not come any faster, and Norway would not be able to have a stand by production line to supply billions worldwide, as the proposers seem to believe. Just covid-19 has highlighted the importance of international cooperation, and when the vaccine comes, it will be the result of research, development and production across borders, including large financial contributions, among others. from Norway. This could not be done in a cluster in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e553	None of us support this proposal, which has initially said or written in the proposal that this should address Norway’s need for access to vaccines. On the contrary, the promise as an industrial opportunity, as an opportunity to create values based on a fantastic industrial environment we have in Norway, and where, through the health nutrition notification, which was perhaps more a health message than a nutrition and industrial message, we actually took up the opportunities that lie there. Then, as proposers, we believe that this is an opportunity if one promotes this and contributes to the establishment of a cluster, just to get nutrient clusters, clusters of competences, to meet to look at the developmental possibilities of vaccine production. And then my question is, why isn't the Right to take advantage of these possibilities through such a cluster?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e558	Thank you for the question. The right hand side is definitely involved. It is, as I also mentioned in my post, initiated a number of processes, initiated by both the Stortinget and the Government, which are intended to strengthen both Norwegian production and industry as such. So it's not right, as the representative of Aasland says, that it's not anywhere that the proposers believe that this will give faster access to vaccines. The comments of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left say that ‘[e]establishing a national cluster for the development and production of vaccines will give Norway faster access to vaccines in a critical situation’. It's with respect to not reporting correctly, and we see that very clearly right now, in the situation the world is up against. It is not that a vaccine is invented at full speed simply because a cluster has been established or adopted in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e565	The point is not that one should invent vaccines – let's say – at a tearing pace as the different challenges arise, but that we should have a stronger environment related to both the production and development of vaccines. In our opinion, both animal health, animal welfare and human health, this is relevant and interesting from an industrial policy perspective. Then I ask, hoping to get an answer: Why does the Right not help to underpin the opportunities that lie there and that we are trying to get through the creation of a public-private cluster, precisely to strengthen the production potential and the environments of competence to contribute to the development of vaccines that we are totally dependent on, and that we are also leading in many areas, such as: in the field of fish health?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e572	I am pleased with the representative mentioned fishing health at the end of the question, because that is a good example of how the industry itself actually manages to develop these areas. This is not something to be decided in the Storting that we should be good at; it is costly, resource-intensive processes that require great knowledge and willingness to take risks. This shows the industries in the fishing industry – a very good example – that they are willing to take, and we therefore get good environments. Nevertheless, I think it is a blow in the air to say that a cluster of vaccine production is to be established in Norway because it is to provide faster access to vaccines in a crisis situation. That's not how vaccines happen. Vaccines are produced through long-term research, through extensive use of resources and through willingness to take risks, and business must definitely be part of it. So it's -- I repeat it for the third time -- a lot of processes are already going on in this field to respond to the challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e579	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e584	I could still change the lines, but it's a little hopeless when you don't get the answers to the questions you're asking. I am a little surprised that the Right and Government parties now do not choose to participate in trying to develop environments of competence or to put together different facets of industry, competence, etc. in such a cluster, just to try to take advantage of the possibilities we have in an even better way than what is actually done – because it does a lot of good. That's why we should grab this exact thing. There's no doubt that the last time we've been through, it's clear to us that we should invest even more in the development of vaccines, medicine, etc. through their own clusters of competence. It's of interest because there's a significant international dimension in it, but also a national dimension, which I think we should use to a greater extent than what has been done up to now, and which has been arranged for us to do in the future. It's wanted by the industry. The establishment and contribution has been requested — not least from public authorities for the development and establishment of industrial environments, precisely in the light of some of the points raised by the rapporteur on the need for long-term capital, and that this is the long-term construction of industrial environments. It should also be of interest in a national dimension because there is significant value creation associated with this. But the right parties consistently choose to reject it and do not go in and try to establish the possibilities that lie there. There are enormous opportunities for value creation and work. We have the long-term capital that can assist. We have the strong industrial environments and environments of competence, which are already established in the context of health, medicine, vaccines, etc. And we could through such cluster thinking, cluster thinking, develop opportunities better. But the answers of the right-wing parties, as soon as it becomes business policy, are no, and once again no, and helping in one way or another, they are very little interested in. Finally, I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e599	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e607	It is a little challenging right now to see whether there is the justification contained in the proposal, or whether there is the new justification provided by the representative of Aasland, which is the background to this proposal. In any case, the main obstacle to national vaccine or pharmaceutical production is not production capacity or clusters, but copyright. Patent and licensing rules do so in practice so that it is the rightholder who decides where to produce it and by whom. For that type of vaccine this is about, and as mentioned in the proposal, this is crucial for development and production. Does the representative know of any existing vaccines in this area that could have been possible for Norway to produce on its own without the authorisation of the rightholder, for emergency reasons or for other reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e616	I understand that the right starting point is to problematize the possibilities we have. There is no doubt that Norway has strong environments of competence in both medicine, vaccines, industrial production, etc. We produce today on licenses, etc., but we can also help to develop an independent basis for this. This is the option that is first and foremost raised in this Document 8, and that is also the option that is mentioned in the setting, to which the Right says no. The right leans back and is satisfied with the situation as it is, and to contribute to, for example: the establishment of clusters, the establishment of clusters, the contribution of long-term capital to the development of new industrial opportunities, new production opportunities, etc. is not on the right, has never been on and will probably never be on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e621	I record that regardless of the page in the hall, it is just as difficult to answer the questions you get. But let me just keep going a little bit. We've established that this isn't about relieving acute drug shortages, so we can put it aside. And that makes sense: since we're building up our production, it's going to be built up elsewhere, in line with demand. Then, among other things, the Workers' Party says: that we should use purchasing power to develop new vaccines in private-public cooperation. We are not opposed to a private-public cooperation on this, at all, but how does the Workers' Party really see that one should increase the total production and production capacity, in the argument in the proposal? Is it the case that we have to have emergency farms standing to take production in case of crisis – is that what's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e628	I do not know if the representative has read anything in the setting or heard any argument that says we should have standby capacity in the production – at all – that is not what it says. The starting point of the proposal is to make sure that we use the possibilities we have as a nation and the environments of competence that are already established, precisely to strengthen our knowledge and opportunities in producing our medicines and developing the environments to do so, while at the same time taking a stronger role in an international race about just that kind of production and that kind of value creation. Norway has great opportunities to do so, and I am disappointed that the Right does not agree to facilitate the development of the opportunities, both through long-term capital and by establishing foundations for an exciting industrial investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e633	What is the challenge of this proposal is that it is actually quite difficult to know what it really is that is being proposed. In any case, we have now established that one does not intend to build up increased production capacity or any preparedness capacity or to provide a better preparedness for medicinal products or vaccines. Then the question really remains: what's in this proposal you're going to do, or is it just nice words?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e638	That's not a good word. Strengthening vaccine preparedness is not primarily about having emergency production, it is about the more we know about a theme, the more industrial environments working on the fields of health medicine, vaccines, etc., the more we can and the better rusted up we stand as a nation. Not least, we have greater opportunities to create values and take advantage of the amazing opportunities that lie there. But as I said, the right does not want to go into these proposals with that as a starting point. Right hand suggestions are just trying to problematize, simplify or say that we have to lean on everyone else. No, we should definitely try to take a room where we have the opportunity to make greater use of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e643	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e648	This proposal is both an active industrial policy and an important part of strengthening our national preparedness. This is not about developing vaccines for covid-19. It is about building industries, building business clusters in Norway and securing a preparedness for future events. I can only refer to the article by Aasland from the Workers' Party, which was a good and covert post. It's kind of hard to get what foot right is on in the critique of this proposal. When one heard the lineword exchange here, it seemed that the main problem of the representative Nilsen was that he had not understood the content of the proposal. Then I think it would be helpful to ask the representative Eidem Løvaas if he could help to find out what the content of the proposal was. There is a lot of text in the setting where the Right is not quite able to decide whether they argue for or against the case, but at least they are against the proposal. It states in the opinion that one point ‘it would be natural for health authorities to conclude agreements with the pharmaceutical company in Norway for emergency purposes’. It might be an expression that you're not very happy with everything that it is today, and that you see the need for a change. For the Central Party, this is both industrial policy and preparedness policy, and I want to go to the Government Party, and not least to the Progress Party, also show that what we are asking for is that there is a case that ‘ensures public-private cooperation to establish a national cluster for the development and production of vaccines for humans, animals and fish’. We ask them to bring up a case for the Storting, so that the government can sort it out – in the way that it is natural to suggest from a responsible opposition in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e664	There is a bit of a search for moving goals in this case, because the representative says that this is not a proposal that has something to do with covid-19, although there is room for it in the relatively short comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, where reference is made to the outbreak of covid-19. In the slightly thinner text, it also says: ‘The establishment of a national cluster for the development and production of vaccines will provide Norway with faster access to vaccines in a critical situation’.» My question is, how?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e674	First of all, it is not the way the representative Eidem Løvaas suggests that he who has the longest text in the setting has the best arguments. We have a map and concise setting. I said that the goal of this case is not to develop a vaccine against covid-19, but it is clear that the situation and the pandemic that are affected. We in the Center Party have believed that this would also make other parties realize how important it is to strengthen national preparedness, but in both this case and the next one it is unfortunately not like that. When it comes to how this will work, it is clear that having a national environment will, both in a crisis situation and in a normal situation, increase the capacity to produce vaccines. It must be a measure that Norway, too, is taking part in this. I'm not going to be absolutely good because for both humans, animals and fish it will ensure a faster access to vaccines. We hope that the government will present a case on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e689	The rapporteur was in his intervention in the process of producing vaccines. It's a comprehensive process. It takes time, there are strict demands, and a great deal of knowledge is required to handle such a job. At the same time, it is important to note that some innovation is taking place in this area. There are other methods during both testing and testing to develop vaccines that may make it possible to go faster. It is important to take part in such a debate, when one sees that the government has started a number of projects on the monitoring of drug and vaccine production in Norway to see how it is and what the possibilities are. That with the creation of a cluster – or cluster tank – is really a good thing. There's no doubt about it. I know the cluster tank well from the industrial environment at Raufoss, and what has characterized all the formations of clusters, is that they come because the industry or industry sees a need for it. They want it because it will be useful for the industry to be able to cooperate on ways to produce, techniques and other things that make it easier to compete on an international market. I have not, as far as I can see, perceived any call from this industry that they need some clusters for this – perhaps because the industry is too small, and perhaps because they do not see the need for it in the development of the products they operate with. If the need arises, I think the industry is actually interested in doing this on its own, without the state necessarily going in and telling them to do it. That's not how clusters evolve in a good way. This is not the way new products evolve well. This is done because the industry is interested in it and sees the purpose of doing so. That's why the proposal becomes a little bit strange to me, that we're going to try to speed it up somehow. Accelerating a natural process and development in an industry — it manages the industry itself. I believe that the industry is able to see the possibilities it has and can get by establishing a cluster, but until the industry sees the opportunity and that there is a need for it, I see no reason for us to speed it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e702	If there's something we've learned from the fresh crisis we've just been in and we're still in, it's that we can no longer be in the past. That we have enough medicines is incredibly important for our safety and safety. We just experienced that the Swedish Medical Products Agency introduced the rationalisation of e.g. Paracet due to the corona situation. It tells me that we're too dependent on others to get enough drugs, and that we're too vulnerable in small Norway. We can no longer take shoes in other countries to have the most necessary available here to land, and I think the pandemic has given us more examples of that. Whether it's about all the shops being free of dry yeast, or that the pharmacies are free from Ibux, it's about the same thing, that people should be sure that we can take care of ourselves when there's unforeseen events. That security is our responsibility to ensure. Good access to vaccines and medicines is important for our safety and can be essential to mitigate the social costs of similar crises in the future. We think that a national cluster as proposed can be a good solution to that. We also believe that such an establishment could help other countries and not least create new and exciting jobs. SV has previously proposed the establishment of a State company responsible for the national self-production of medicinal products in Norway. It would be a powerful instrument to ensure national production, but also to ensure that the prices of medicines are sound and can be kept down. That is our primary position on this matter. That is why I think it is a little special that the Workers' Party does not want a direct production, but rather invites to a public-private collaboration with all of this. Nevertheless, we support the Labour Party because we find it urgent to put in place good solutions to the problem, and I do not think the answers or arguments to the bourgeois parties are good enough. The most important thing for us is the security of people, and that we get this preparedness in place. Then we have to get an investigation and one thing about how we can get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e721	One of the most important tasks of the country is to ensure the safety of its citizens. In the pandemic, it is important to ensure that people have access to the necessary vaccines and other medicines in Norway. The left considers that it is primarily through international cooperation that we can increase Norwegian health preparedness and Norwegian capacity to quickly start targeted production of medicines and anti-infection equipment. We believe that we need to reconcile international convergence and solidarity with the will and ability to take national, regional and international responsibility when global capacity is really put to the test. The coronary apathy has shown us that we are vulnerable to accessing certain medicinal products in special situations. We should therefore not rely solely on foreign pharmaceutical production. It is important to monitor how we can ensure access to medicines when access is reduced. We also need to look at how we can strengthen pharmaceutical manufacturers internally in Norway. It's good to know that we're already running. On 6 March, the Directorate-General for Health was commissioned to assess whether, in the light of the emergency situation resulting from the outbreak of covid-19, it is possible to increase the production capacity of critical medicinal products in Norway. As part of this work, a project was established to identify production capacity for critical medicinal products in Norway in the short, medium and longer term. For the sake of preparedness, it is natural that health authorities conclude agreements with the pharmaceutical company in Norway to assess the possibilities for the production of medicinal products and vaccines. The development of the pharmaceutical industry in Norway is important. It creates jobs and contributes to value creation. At the same time, vaccine production is very resource-intensive. It takes a long time and costs a lot of money. Modern vaccine production is so extensive that it is only profitable in an international market. The Norwegian market alone is too small. That's why we have to think both nationally and globally when we develop the market at home. We've been warned for a long time that a pandemic like the one we're experiencing now could come. We have been warned of the great consequences it would have for people's lives and economics. New pandemics will come. We will increasingly be able to experience a lack of essential medicines, and we can once again experience that international contracts for purchase and delivery do not always have a value when there is a shortage in all countries. Therefore, the processes and projects undertaken by the government are very important. At the same time, it is important to stress that we see the strength of international cooperation in the development of specific vaccines against covid-19. I would also like to mention that we have areas on which we are world leaders today. Among other things, Geno is definitely the world leader in agriculture. Otherwise, I would like to say briefly that I have a great understanding of what Aasland's representative said in his last reply, which I think was very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e736	It is important to ensure that we have access to the necessary vaccines and other medicines in Norway. This is part of any nation's preparedness. In addition to good international agreements and supply lines, national capacities are needed, including in relation to the availability of vital medicinal products. The Covid-19 pandemic has, among other things: show us that we are vulnerable to this and that we cannot rely solely on foreign drug production. In Norway, there are 12 pharmaceutical companies. Together, manufacturing companies possess technology, competence and capacity to produce most pharmaceutical forms that are currently lacking. In the light of lessons learned from covid-19, it would be natural for health authorities to assess the possibilities for concluding agreements with the pharmaceutical company in Norway on the production of medicinal products and vaccines for emergency purposes. The Health Directorate has provided an interim report on the production of medicinal products on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It is part of a major review of drug preparedness in Norway. The main focus of the report is to promote recommendations that will help to increase access to medicinal products in the event of supply failure, as well as to facilitate the establishment and strengthening of the production of medicinal products. On 6 March 2020, the Health Directorate was commissioned to assess whether, in the light of the emergency situation resulting from the covid-19 outbreak, it is possible to increase the production capacity of critical medicinal products in Norway. As part of that work, a project was established to identify critical drug production capacity in Norway in the short, medium and longer term. It is managed by the State Medicines Agency and is implemented in cooperation with the authority body and relevant actors. The project shall further consider implementing the actions recommended in the report of 29 February 2020. On that basis, we believe that the draft representative addresses actions where projects and processes are already under way. In addition, it is natural for this theme to fall within the forthcoming preparedness call, and it should be addressed in a wider context and evaluated in a comprehensive manner. Strong medical research and production environments are now working worldwide to produce and mass produce a vaccine against the coronary virus. It is very unlikely that the establishment of a national cluster for this purpose in Norway will accelerate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e756	I really see the contribution of the representative, Mr Reiten, as positive to the thinking contained in the proposal. I heard a slightly different entrance than we have heard from the representatives of the Right. This is a very interesting issue in industrial and industrial policy. From the right, it was very problematic to get involved at all in this from the Storting. But here we heard a different attitude. Is it the case that the representative, Mr Reiten, sees this type of proposal as a matter of principle important that the Stortinget adopts industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e761	I understand that proposals like this are being promoted, both in this matter and in matters that we are going to debate later today in relation to the stockpiling of cereals. But we in the Christian People's Party say in both cases that we believe it is premature – when we are still in an early phase of the coronary epidemic – to draw conclusions and promote proposals. That's why our approach is that we want to wait for this. The government has notified a big deal about the emergency situation. There, we believe that there needs to be a broad review of various preparedness measures, in terms of access to both medicine, food, spare parts and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e766	My question was of a general nature about industrial policy. I hear here a difference and a recognition of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. That's good. Historically, Norway has shown — whether it is through deliberate choices for the use of our large power resources in the North Sea or conscious agricultural policy — that the Storting must be involved in making choices like this. That's where I feel that the Horseman really has an implicit criticism of the way the Right-Representatives argue, which almost says this should not be the Stortinge's involvement. Is that a correct view? Does the Reiten support the overall idea of the red-green parties in business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e773	I think the representative Sandtrøen has misunderstood. The point of my Christian People's Party is that Norway does not have the capacity and the professional environments that will enable us to take a leading role globally in developing and mass producing vaccines. It is quite in line with the representative Eidem Løvaas mentioned in his statement. That's why we think this is something we have to get back to. Our challenge will be to provide enough vaccines when they are available. Then there may be a question of producing a vaccine in Norway, but we have to come back to that when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e779	The representative Horseman may stand still – that's another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e784	You're allowed to try to escape, but there's no reason to escape. I shall raise a mild and cautious question, based on a comment from the Advance Party, which refers to decisions related to the Health and Sickness Plan: ‘As soon as possible, the Government is asked to put in place a contingency model for the Norwegian production of important medicinal products’ osb. Furthermore, it says: ‘The Government is asked to determine the production capacity in Norway and what essential medicinal products and medical devices can and should be produced nationally to ensure supply and preparedness, and to return to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ Then my question is: Does the Christian People's Party think that there is a need to strengthen the capacity and environment of the production of medicines and vaccines in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e799	I just have to repeat what I have said a few times now: there is a big message about the emergency situation. We're early in the pandemic. We will await the processing of that big message. It will always be in a situation like the one we're up to now, that the opposition will try to provide and promote suggestions and be in the forefront. We believe that the most tidy process today is to await the Storing Communication and take a wide-ranging debate on the emergency situation in Norway in the light of the pandemic, when it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e804	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e809	Through the debate we have heard that this matter has a slightly different aspect. So far the industrial policy side of the proposal has been debated, but also the medical and emergency side of the proposal. In my contribution, I want to focus on the industrial policy aspect, because the overall objective of the government's industrial policy is maximum overall value creation in the Norwegian economy within a sustainable framework. From a commercial policy point of view, the development and production of vaccines and medicinal products must be done where the economic operators themselves find it profitable. For business, long-term, business and strategic assessments help to determine the location of enterprises. Good general framework conditions for the creation of value added, access to capital, competence, instruments for stimulating research, innovation and technological development can help players to choose to place their production in Norway, all of which are high on the industrial policy agenda. I am glad that the proposers see the value of public-private cooperation, and the clusters are very good examples of that kind of cooperation. We have many excellent clusters and network environments in Norway with the participation of innovative and skilled business actors. I think one of the most important things we can do to develop good clusters is to contribute to good and predictable framework conditions, and then we need to establish a culture for and a willingness to promote cooperation between public actors and business. Our clusters are involved and develop the international competitiveness and ability of Norwegian industry to create value added and to create profitable jobs. Through clusters, different environments can access competence and information on different sources of funding, access to existing infrastructure, and can be motivated to participate in research and innovation work both nationally and internationally. The government has therefore strengthened the clusters in recent years, but it is not the government that decides which clusters to establish and what device they should have. We cannot determine politically where the business actors in the clusters are going to place their production or how they are going to organise their R & D activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e827	I agree that the government or the Stortinget cannot decide exactly what the business community should do, but we can, of course, motivate business to do a bit. On 20 May, the Director-General of the Medical Products Industry, the Director-General of the Research Council, the Director-General of the LO and the Managing Director of the Norwegian Industry had a very strong call for Norwegian authorities to invest in vaccine production in Norway. That is a strong recommendation. By doing so, they ask that a user use the opportunities we have to develop knowledge, strengthen preparedness, secure value creation and secure jobs. That's the invitation given by these people, which is very central to representing the business we're now talking about. Will the Minister of Industry take an initiative to meet what they are asking for in that chronicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e832	Now I haven't read that chronicle, so I can't go into the details of it. There are still two different things we're talking about, because we have a clustering program, we have an instrument that contributes to this clustering program. The program as such can support the clusters, but the clusters themselves must come together. It is an initiative that must take place between the research environments and business. They're the ones who have to decide what to make clusters on, and how to evolve further. Then you have the more preparedness side. If we are to have an emergency pack for medicines here, is there a need, is there a basis for doing production in Norway within an emergency picture? It is up to the Ministry of Health and Welfare to assess. I understand that a lot is working on it now. Among other things, the Minister of Health has been out saying that there may be potential for some production of narrow-spectrum antibiotics in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e841	I would definitely encourage the Minister of Industry to read this article, because then I am convinced that she, as a signatory, will also be somewhat inspired to look at the opportunities that lie in Norway, primarily to create great values, and to be in a situation where one builds the industrial knowledge we have, further. We have a lot in fish health and animal health. We can further develop and contribute to it, and we can also join and take a room in the international part. It will also strengthen us in a preparedness context, so it will be a win-win situation. So I ask again: will the Council of State take an initiative to meet this industry and be involved in facilitating that we in Norway can just trigger a potential within the production of vaccines, not least in the light of the situation we have been through, and that industry too is very clearly pointing out that there is a huge potential for industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e848	From the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we are not going to oblige any actors to produce certain vaccines. There must be an assessment that is up to the health authorities to take. We are spending considerable public money on this particular industry, on the public and private cooperation that health industries represent. We spend money through our toolkit. We have a good professional environment in medicine and in health technology. It's constantly developing. As I said, through our tool, we're spending considerable money on it. A completely new construction is being built at the University of Oslo just to take out the potential that lies on the research side, but also on the business side of this important and potentially large future business area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e855	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e863	Norway has financial problems: Last year we went with a deficit of 275 billion. kr in trade with other countries, corrected for petroleum exports. 40 pst. of the pre-employment population in several parts of our country are out of work, and differences between people are increasing. This is due to the lack of enough jobs with a decent wage to live on. Therefore, we need to invest in new jobs, new production in Norway, on a broad front. And: Vaccines and medicines are a very important area that both provides products that people in Norway and otherwise need, and that create opportunities for industry and jobs in many parts of our country. The proposal we are presenting today from the Workers' Party, together with the other red-green parties, is precisely to use the best of the wisdom and experience in the production of vaccines for both animals and fish in Norway, and to ensure that we can develop even more jobs by building on this knowledge. So it's a practical example of what's often called bioeconomy. I want to talk about that right now, because unfortunately, there's a lot of talk about where we're going, and there's a lot of positive words, for example. on the development of vaccines and medicines in Norway. But now that we are faced with a concrete choice – should Stortinget say that we should have more of this? – which also obliges us to go along with the economic resources and everything needed by organisation, this proposal is unfortunately voted down. It's the same way, maybe, what we're now experiencing in the health care community. Nurses get a lot of brilliance and people stand on balconies and flaps, but in the long run we know that it helps little with clapping and fine words. It is political action for a better society that is what actually creates security and prospects. Therefore, I think it is surprising to see that the Progress Party has intended to vote down this important proposal, which could have started up vaccine production and thus also now created a political commitment and opened up that vaccines and medicines are a field in which the Storting is committed in the future. That's what we need, leaders who deal with concrete problems and deliver solutions. In the long run, no one lives on just chats and slides.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e882	I think to the extent that the debate has been elucidating. I feel that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are basically positive and see the possibilities of establishing such a cluster, as the proposal addresses itself. While the Right is trying to ridicule it, or trivialize it, or problematize it away, and I think that's a shame. This was a starting point, and I think it's absolutely right that such a cluster thinking is established in a public–private collaboration around vaccine production, precisely because we have a good foundation, precisely because we have industry and competence and research that suggests that we could use the position better than what we're doing now. That is the call that also emerges very clearly in the chronicle of 20 May from the pharmaceutical industry, Norwegian Industry, LO and the Research Council. They encourage politicians to do so, to use the opportunities and to develop something, to contribute to, for example: risk relief because it is long processes and time-consuming. As I said, I feel that the Left Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are basically positive to it, as opposed to the Right, as one does not know what is meant by this debate. But I hope – and can encourage again, I too – that the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party actually votes for what they might really be for, and that means that a vote for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e891	Thank you for the debate. I believe and believe that the representative of the Christian People's Party was really at the heart of the matter when, in repeated repetitions in the reply, he pointed out that we must look at the whole of the preparedness part of the proposal. It is natural and quite common that the Storting does so when you get a message to deal with. With regard to the commercial part of this, the Right – which the representative of Aasland had not received – believes that the proposal is well on the way to opening open doors. It is not like it was suggested, that the Right believes that the Storting should not engage. The size has been involved in this earlier. Some decisions have already been taken in Stortinget and initiatives have been taken by the government within the field. So here we're probably not as disagreeable as the representative Aasland adds up to. I would like to add a few brief comments to the proposal, because it seems a little unclear. At one moment it's about preparedness, and at the next moment it's about industrial policy. Then it's not about the pandemic, but it's about the pandemic anyway. Then it's about having a production line for vaccines, but then we're not going to have it. Or it's about having a warehouse, and we're not going to have it. The right approach to this is: the comments from the proposers argue that Norway is such a small country that we will be able to export quickly to the rest of the world, but in that case it means that we need to have the production capacity, and building up such a production capacity is so resource-intensive that I think it is to throw bladders in the eyes of people to say that Norway should be the fastest to produce a vaccine and reach the global market as quickly as possible. I think international solutions and international cooperation, and that Norway is also contributing, as we are doing now, to developing vaccines for covid-19, is the way to do it in the future. I'm looking forward to the big message that's going to be about preparedness. I also look forward to the health care industry continuing to grow. Finally, in the case of SV’s proposals on state pharmaceutical factories, the Right believes that this is a bad idea, simply because a state pharmaceutical factory will in no way guarantee that medicines are produced cheaper – rather the opposite. And if you're going to spend more money, which is to be taken from the health budget, on medicines, that means you get less health for the money, and other areas of health budgets will have to suffer if you're going to set up such a factory. Once again, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e908	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e925	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to three lines of reply from the main speakers of the lots and up to six lines of response from members of the government will be given. Those who had to sign out on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e932	I think everyone in this room wants to do what's needed to secure the population in every way in war and crisis. However, this case shows that we do not always agree on how this should be done. We are now going to debate a proposal from the Central Party to establish the emergency storage of cereals. The basis of the proposal is a proposal for a representative promoted by the Centre Party in 2017, when a decision was taken asking the government to promote a case concerning the establishment of national cereal stocks. The government came back with an assessment and was clear that a centralised food stockpiles would not be a targeted and cost-effective measure to strengthen Norwegian food security. Norway had central cereal storage facilities until 2003. Then they were terminated. There were several stocks – two in North Norway and three in South Norway. In fact, most countries have closed their national cereals stocks. It is not because they feel confident that a crisis cannot occur, but because it was no longer a self-responsive measure that allowed itself to defend itself as being cost-effective and appropriate. In Norway, it costs 500 million. SEK to establish a stock that lasts for three months, and it costs 50 million. kr to operate it – at least. The most important thing we can do to strengthen food security in Norway is to strengthen continuous production. Norwegian food production is strengthened under this government. The level of self-sufficiency, which went down below the red-greens, has gone up, the number of farms being laid down is reduced, and we're adding up to smaller grain stocks on farms. That's what we went through last year's farm plan. So it is – but there is little talk about it – that the inventory we have today in mills and in private was 38 p.m. of the total consumption in 2018 and 2019. It is a little volatile – it goes up and down depending on the year – but this is an important contribution to overall preparedness. In addition, we have strengthened the stockpiling of cereal seed, and we are now betting, together with agriculture, on increasing the Norwegian share in feed. As is the case today, food preparedness in Norway is very well maintained. We therefore propose that the establishment of emergency storage of cereals should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e947	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e952	It has been a short time since Right Michael Tetzschner, together with several leading Right-wing politicians, proposed that food preparedness in Norway should be outsourced to Sweden. In practice, it is still Right-wing policy if you look at what is now happening, where you vote against concrete proposals on emergency storage. During the Korona crisis, the representative Angell Gimse made an interesting statement to NTB: ‘It may be useful to take action to ensure that we are safe this year.’ It describes the whole problem – that you don’t take inward what this is fundamentally about. It's not about "accurate this year" or next year. It's about whether the insurance should be there continuously. That's why it's kind of despairing when you say one thing and you change the explanation, but you're voting against it. Is it such that the Right Representative can ensure that there is security for food for people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e964	If it had been such that I had thought that the stockpiling of cereals was important to ensure food safety in Norway, I would have been the first to accept this proposal. Emergency preparedness in general, and especially in the area of food safety, is important. However, many reports have actually confirmed that this is not an effective measure. In any case, a grain stock is not a long-term solution. The World Bank, together with the European Food and Agriculture Organisation, has published a report in which they are very clear that if a country chooses to have a food grain warehouse, it must continue to be combined with trade and investment in increased productivity. And as I rammed up when I was standing on the pulpit, we have ensured increased agricultural productivity under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e971	There was no answer to the question whether the representative could guarantee that it was safe for food. The Swedish Defence Research Institute is one of those who have pointed out that food supply can be more challenging in the next few years because food becomes more strategically traded between countries when food and soil resources are scarce. We have recently experienced that the Right's long-term defence plan was so weak that the Stortinget had to send it back. Preparedness with the Right is again a field with a lot of PR and talk, but with little action and priority when it comes to actual decisions and investments. It's impossible to provide security for people if you only have balls, but you don't have food and you don't have people to do the necessary production and work to do. Is it correctly understood that there are many people involved in defence who also regard the stockpiling of cereals as an important part of the security of people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e980	The representative of Sandtrøen believes that we do not have a coordinated policy on preparedness, but we are now going to issue a full report on social security and preparedness, which also addresses food security. I want to ask questions back to the Sandtroe about his red-green government's bet in this area. In 2013, the proposal to set up cereal storage facilities was first promoted, adding a total of 5 million. kr to this proposal. Now you've increased it to 30 million. kr, but it is not in the vicinity of what is needed to manage the establishment of a food grain warehouse. So I ask a question back: are you really serious about the desire to set up a food grain store when you're not willing to prioritize it in their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e987	We can take a round of lines where we answer that, because what the red-green government did in 2013, was very important. We put in a start-up permit for food storage because we thought that the times had changed, because we thought there was a need to be more prepared. Same way as when one builds a 5 billion motorway. kr, doesn't allow a 5 billion. For the first year. One permits maybe 10 or 20 million. kr, and then the remaining permissions come. But there was an obstacle, a change of government, that Erna Solberg was prime minister in Norway, that the attention to preparedness was reduced – and the project was abandoned. My question is: does the representative see that there can be a situation in which trade in food and grain in the world – for a shorter or longer period – stops, or does my representative completely fail to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e994	We have now been through a pandemic and see that the countries around us actually also see it is important to maintain trade with other countries. Trade and transport have almost gone into Norway as usual. If, against assumption, all the feeder lines to our country are closed, Norway is in a unique situation – because we have the fish. The fish makes us say 100 pst. self-sufficient. It is also such that in such a big crisis situation, where everything is closed, we will have to change our diet. We might have to use grain that we're now feeding, as food for humans. We'll have to deal with much less. Norway is in a unique situation if this should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1003	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1009	Norway needs joint insurance to provide security for people. In some areas, we're good at this. We have a common national health system, which should be strengthened and better funded. But in other areas, we are weaker. With regard to food safety, as mentioned earlier, there are clear concerns and both the Swedish Defence Research Institute and others point out that it has not been established that Norway can guarantee the security of food supply to our citizens. Self-sufficiency is only getting weaker, and we have to count on it when we correct for all of the feed we import into Norway. Just about 40 pst. of the calorie needs of people in Norway are covered by our own agricultural production. In fact, from a historical point of view, it is relatively often that we need insurance for food. At the other end of Karl Johan we find the Castle. If we go back to the First World War, it's a very interesting image that's taken from that period, which hangs at the Oslo Museum today, where you see that you have to start growing the lawn outside the Castle to ensure greater production of potatoes and more calories to the population because Norway was cut off along the coast and cereal imports were weakened. Now, under the corona pandemic, we have suddenly seen that one of the largest cereal exporters in the world, Russia, imposes restrictions on its exports. Vietnam, which is one of the major exporters of rice, has prohibited the conclusion of new contracts for the sale of rice in the future in the period we have been in. It is precisely these problems that the Swedish Defence Research Institute has been able to come several years ago when there are disturbances in the markets. The point of insurance is to provide security against the unknown. When former Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale tried to explain why he was negative about increasing the security of food through emergency storage, he said that we do not know what to store for. And without even knowing it, he pointed out the core point in why we need insurance. It is to create security for the situation that may arise – just as I have insurance on my car, although I do not know exactly what situation it will take. That is the whole essence of insurance, and we must also give that security to the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1022	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1027	I am glad to see that, because this is an important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1032	Then the representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1039	The working party is usually a lot which places great emphasis on international trade. I think that's very good. We're a small and open economy that's very dependent on the world around us, and now we've been through a covid-19 pandemic. How does the Workers' Party assess the food safety situation during the covid-19 pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1044	That is a very good question, and the answer is that we consider that food safety in Norway needs to improve, precisely because we have seen that there are disturbances, as those we referred to here, because the production of cereals in Norway is too weak. The grain area has been reduced in all counties of the country in recent years — all counties of the country. That's why we need a little bit more grain in stock. The reason is completely practical. During World War II, we learned from what happened in World War I, and therefore we were much better equipped to handle the critical first phase. What happens in a society where there is a lack of food is that there is unrest in the population, so seemingly stable conditions can slip into chaos because people are being saved. That's what we need to avoid happening, and that's why we need this common insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1049	I often think – or always – the working party and the opposition have food grain storage as an answer when we talk about food preparation, and you don't talk about all the other measures that need to be put in place. What will the Workers' Party do in addition to establishing food grain stores if we are in a situation where logistics would cut into the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1054	That's also a very good question. We want to implement our agricultural escalation plan on Norwegian resources, so that we have a little bit extra stock, but first of all have a larger production of feed for the animals, vegetables, cereals for the people, and not least use more of the grazing resources that we now have. Today, our production is too vulnerable, because through centralisation, we are getting fewer animals, for example. in milk production. So we have less to go on and a smaller buffer if we're going to switch the systems fast. So first of all, we want to get agricultural policy on a much better track, where we use the natural resources we have in Norway, and get the current self-sufficiency up. That's why Angell Gimse's question is excellent and good, and I hope she gets the other parties in government to vote for offensive proposals that we're going to promote for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1059	We received a letter from the Minister of Agriculture and Food in connection with this proposal, explaining that there is a significant storage of food grain today in mills, grain buyers and farms. From 2018 to 2019 it was a total of 38 pst., and we believe this is a significant contribution to the overall food security. Has this been part of the Workers' Party's knowledge base when you now want to spend a lot of money on national and state stocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1064	Yeah, that's part of our knowledge. And as I referred to, we have something. It is not that self-sufficiency is zero, or that there are no cereals, but we want to strengthen and provide both production and more storage. It's very important. And with the increased grain prices we've seen lately because of the corona pandemic, it's like – in addition to being a security for the people – grain storage is also a financial buffer. We're importing grain today, and we're still going to do that, but by having something extra in stock, we're becoming less vulnerable to the rapid price fluctuations that we see in times of crisis. In the case of cereal storage, much of the costs will already be covered because one avoids excessive extra burdens with import costs in critical moments, so it is a very ludicrous planning for our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1069	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1075	I would say the case rapporteur gave a very good and correct review of the matter in a debate that it is not the first time we have here in this Chamber. The debate has essentially changed somewhat over time. The red-red opposition has gone more from having giant silos in Stavanger to seeing that we can store in other ways. There is a cost of creating large grain stocks, and the Joint Purchase presented a report in 2019 that estimated the cost of 1.4 billion. kr to establish a stand-by warehouse for four months of consumption of food and feed cereals. There was much because of this that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food gave some clear leadership to Innovation Norway when it came to investment aid for plant droughts on farms, which is a good solution, a forward-looking solution and not least a much safer solution than having large grain stocks. When the contingency plan was closed in 2003, it consisted of two grain stocks in North Norway and three in South Norway with a total of 21 500 tonnes of wheat. That's about it. 13 millagres in North Norway plus a total of 7,500 tonnes of wheat. By establishing plant deserts with an average size of 1000 tonnes on farms, the stockpiles in 2003 will be covered and more than that of only 30 plant-driers. I think that's a fancy way to do it. As far as the safety component is concerned, it is undoubtedly the safest. Then one goes away from all the large grain stores, and many countries have. Nothing is more vulnerable in a state of emergency and security than having large stocks. Therefore, there is no chess cover to establish large stocks either. I look forward to this debate continuing after we have finished here today. Grain storage and food storage are important. Preparedness and food safety are important. But large grain stores aren't the right way to do it. We'd rather let agriculture take care of the storage – they know how to do it, they're good at it, and they have an interest in it themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1088	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1093	When I listen to the representative Ørsal Johansen, I can get the impression that what we have proposed is to establish a large common store. There is nothing in our proposal. In the past, the Progress Party had a demand for the stockpiling of food grain in its party programme. As far as I know, it's now removed. Then I will ask the representative to do what it is that has changed in the last few years, which has made the need for the stockpiling of cereals less than it was in the period 2013-2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1098	I did not say that it was the goal of the red-red opposition to create a large grain warehouse. I said that the debate has changed somewhat, and that the red-red is now on a track where they see that storage on the farm might be the right way to do it. When we had this in our program earlier, it meant that we were going to have large grain stores. That situation has changed. Facts have shown that large grain stores are not tricked. That's why we've taken it out of the program, but we're still working on a model to have granaries and planters around the farms. It is the best solution for responding to preparedness and security challenges that may come in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1105	When I listen to the representative Ørsal Johansen now, it can almost seem as if he is for the storage of grain. Then I wonder if he has made some thoughts about how extensive a storehouse looks ahead. Is there three months, six months or twelve months of consumption a wish in these spreads stored a handle in order?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1110	No matter how long it takes for storage to stand by, storage on farms and small stores are the right way to do it. So through such an establishment, see how long it's possible to store it. It is possible to obtain long-term storage, which I was in my post, with large stocks, but that is the worst solution in terms of the security situation. That's why it's totally out of the question for the Progress Party to go into. But, as I said, establishing cereal stocks and plant-dries on farms is a good way to do it, both on a preparedness and a security basis. How much capacity there will be in such storage will be seen when we have come a long way in establishing such stocks. I think it's hard to imagine right now what an emergency situation will be like in a few years, and what kind of conditions you have to take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1115	I see that the representative Ørsal Johansen has decorated himself with the Norwegian flag today. I also hear what is said about emergency storage. The reality is that one argues for, but in the setting one goes because the proposal is not adopted. The proposal to carry out the emergency storage of food grain does not state that it is to be done in gardening or in large centralised warehouses. Then my question will be to the representative Ørsal Johansen: When one progresses to the national level, one feels comfortable saying that in times of crisis this country will depend on the functioning of imports and on countries such as the United Kingdom. Russia wants to export halibut to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1122	This representative is flying the Norwegian flag because not long ago we celebrated a May 17 which was something special. I'm happy in my country, and that's why I'm flying the Norwegian flag. I don't put any other meaning into it. It also means that I am so happy in my country that I am concerned that we should have the opportunity to cope with a situation that causes us to have challenges on the food supply side. It's been through the situation we've been in, it's proven to have worked well. We have managed to maintain the food supply. We're never going to be totally self-contained in Norway when it comes to all aspects of food. Grain is one of the areas that we might not be able to deal with. That's why it's important to take care of the relationship we have with other countries, and be prepared for us to deal with imports, and will not be able to produce what we're going to, ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1129	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1134	This is a big and important matter for the Center Party. I want to start by warning you about something the case manager did in his article. She pretended that we all in this room were just as busy with readiness, and that we only had a little different input into the tool. I think it's wrong. I mean the Center Party is more busy with national preparedness than the government party and government of Solberg is. As we have also seen in the past, we know that it was the government of Solberg that stopped the plans for the construction of national stockpiles for cereals. Then it is that we got multiples for this proposal later, in connection with Document 8:33 S for 2017-2018. Then the Christian People's Party voted in favour and secured plurality for this. The government now argues that they have followed up the proposal, it was in the process of examining the appeal decision, but the reality is that they have given up the proposal. They haven't followed it up, they've given it up. The problem with the government's view of readiness is that one set some premise for it. A good thing is not to think that situations arise where trade stops completely or partially. It's a problem when you base it on your plans. But I also think there is an ethical problem in this, that Norway, as a rich country, should be able to buy grain on the world market in competition with poorer countries in a situation of fierce competition for food. One must not come to the conclusion that what we have experienced in the last few months is the worst that can happen. There may also be things that are much worse. There may be 10 times as lethal, 100 times as lethal, and more contagious. We can get into completely different situations than we're in now. But the point is that you have a different view of preparedness. During the Coronapandemy, there are our suggestions where the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been out and said we have wet storage of food. They couldn't even stand to say that this is just nonsense. The center party is great calculators. The emergency storage we have of naudmat in Norway is half a route of milk chocolate per Norwegian. Then it is unlikely that the Ministry of Economic Affairs says we have secret litter of food spread around the country. One has to go out and say it's not right, and now we have to have a discussion about, "Do we want it or not?" On the centre side, there is only one wish in the debate that we are at least more honest and say that we are willing to take that risk. For the centre party, we are not willing to take that risk, so we want to have food grain stockpiles in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1149	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1155	As surely as spring comes, we know that the Senter Party comes with its new proposals on food grain stockpiles. This has been debated and investigated in several rounds. In 2015, the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research concluded that the supply of food grain was good. In January 2017, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness also concluded that there were no high-risk events for Norwegian food supply. Furthermore, the Directorate-General for Agriculture is entrusted with monitoring the international market development of agricultural products. I really wonder whether the Centre Party does not have confidence in all the reports that show that a central emergency stock – or an emergency stock anyway – is not the most targeted and cost-effective measure to ensure food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1162	The center party is going to continue to propose this until we get multiples for it, and until we get it done. Our goal is to make it before it gets serious, before we need it. A lot of reports are available. They also have some plans, and I think they don't take what's our starting point, that the unmistakable would happen. In the Center Party, our work is about ready to happen things that are far worse than what we have experienced now. It is also worth noting that it is predicted that one will experience a global food crisis in the cold water of covid-19. Russia has closed the export of quinces. There have been challenges with the export of rice from India and Vietnam. So there are challenges on the global market, which one would probably have worked perfectly. So we're going to continue to propose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1169	The representative Geir Pollestad has a sense of humor. I'll give him that. In his article he came up with the idea that you could get pandemics that had a hundred times higher mortality than covid-19, and then it's the end for us all, because that means that it's 140 pst. mortality — morbidity — on the pandemic. We're all going to have hope that doesn't happen. My question is this: it costs between 500 million. NOK and SEK 1.4 billion. kr – depending on the estimate used – to establish a food grain stock, whether it is decentralised or centralised, and then at least 50 million. to operate it and renew it during the year. As the representative has said, the Centre Party has so far only shown the start-up appropriations for this, i.e. 5 million. NOK 30 million. kr, depending on the year you choose to look at the alternative state budget. When do we see the Central Party budget the real cost of such a stock, and where are they going to take the money from?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1178	If something we've learned this spring, it's that crisis and crisis management costs a lot of money. The centre part will be for the emergency storage of food grain, whether it costs 1 billion. kr, SEK 0.5 bn. kr or 2 brd. kr. It is also true that some of the charges that have been imposed will apply to cereals that are rolling in stock. We're going to be able to incorporate a start-up option into our alternative budget. What would have been unprofessional would have been certain we now in revised added that one should use 1 billion. kr for the emergency storage of food grain in Norway in 2020, because that would not have been possible. It would have been irresponsible budgeting, and if one thing we do in the Central Party, it is that we are either in position or in opposition, operating with responsible budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1183	The representative Pollestad made an important point in his speech, namely the ethical problem of rich countries being able to use their purchasing power in the world market to trade cereals and squeeze prices. Does the representative Pollestad see the paradox that, in the situation we are now in, a proposal is being put forward that will result in a massive purchase of food grain in the world market to establish the emergency stock – at a time when we see food production in the Third World being threatened, at a time when we see large grasshoppers swarming threatening crops in large parts of northern Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1188	I see most paradoxically that the reason why we don't get a spare coat of food grain is that the Christian People's Party has changed its mind and turned around in the matter. I'm sorry. Purchases to a grain warehouse will have to be made over time. It is clear that in an acute situation of famine and where world prices are a problem, Norway will reduce the purchase of cereals during these periods. It must be done in a defendable way. But I thought it was too many excuses and excuses not to do this in connection with the state budget. When it was put to death, it was to strengthen food production in Africa. It is an important measure, but it has nothing to do with the basic, e.g. that as a nation, we take an independent responsibility for our own preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1195	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1200	The experience of the Korona crisis shows us that it is the strong Community solutions that solve the crises we face. I record that the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party believe that the preparedness storage of food grain is not a cost-effective measure to strengthen Norwegian food security. But what we've learned lately is that you can't sit down and just think about being cost-effective in the face of national crises. Grain storage was discontinued many years ago because the attitude was that since we don't need it, we don't need it. We from SV are a little more concerned about looking forward and believe that the proposal for emergency storage is a good initiative that should be followed up. It may also contribute to increasing the value creation of agriculture and ensuring important jobs. The country's ability to ensure its own food supply is an important part of our preparedness, and we believe that our citizens have a strong need to know that we will manage ourselves when the accident is over. The bourgeois majority think it's enough to depend on other countries for us to take care of ourselves, but we both believe that it's an unsolidarian way of thinking, and that it's a measure that gives us a false sense of security at a time when clarity is more important than ever. We have no guarantee that we're self-held if the crisis gets big enough, and we can't end up in a situation where we overwhelm other poor countries to get food on the table for ours. We must avoid being in such situations for the sake of both our own and other countries. And what does the government think we should do if there is a trade block introduced? The future is unpredictable and imports of cereals may become difficult. It is more forward-looking to face this important production itself. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, and the least we can expect is that we are self-held when it comes to food. Yeah, we've done better than other countries as far in the pandemic as we're in, and our problems might be small if you compare with others. Nevertheless, we have seen that the shops have become free from ordinary foods because people have hamstered. On Thursday, Norway shut down, people panicked, and once the prime minister said you didn't have to hamster, that's exactly what many chose to do. Our residents are not sure that we have enough to do, and it ended up that those who had money could buy what they needed, while many others had to wait and be free. We saw that rations were introduced on oatmeal and wheat flour in the shops, and that's a measure that came directly from the shops so that they didn't have enough for everyone, because someone took too much. I think that is a very clear message to the majority in the Chamber. It is reassuring that there will be a new big message of social security and preparedness to assess the overall preparedness here to land, but if it carries the same social analysis we see from the government parties today, it will help little. We never know when a crisis occurs or what kind of crisis it is. I know that many would have felt safer if we were better prepared. That is why we are in favour of the minority proposal on the matter and ask the government to submit a plan to implement the emergency storage of food grain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1223	We must be prepared for what will happen if there is a crisis. However, it is important to stress that we are doing quite well in Norway. Norway is almost self-sufficient in meat, fish, eggs, milk, dairy products and coarse vegetables such as cabbage and carrot. The degree of self-sufficiency fell below the red-green and has gone up again with a sitting government. It is important that we have a good degree of self-sufficiency in Norway, but the degree of self-sufficiency in itself does not say much about how much food we actually produce. But that's going to do the coverage. One of the most important steps we can take to ensure food for the inhabitants of Norway is to facilitate the production in Norway of as much food as Norwegian consumers demand. We use our natural resources in a smart way, and the supply of food is a basic need that needs to be met. This does not mean that centralisation of cereal storage is the best response to maintaining food preparedness in Norway. Centralised food stockpiles are not a targeted and cost-effective measure to enhance food safety. This has been assessed many times and several reports have concluded that centralised storage capacity for cereals is not necessary. We believe, however, that we should have some decentralised stockpiles of cereals. It is important to provide for smaller and local cereal stocks on farm and other uses. Around the country. It ensures a simpler distribution and provides storage near people in case of a crisis. A system of aid for the stockpiling of cereal seed was substantially strengthened in the agricultural establishment in 2019. The scheme of a subsidy for the storage of food grain on local farms was also prioritised. In addition, in the event of a crisis, we can redefine part of the feed grain into food grain. It is natural that the debate on the stockpiling of food grain has come up again during the coronary crisis, but if there is one thing that has worked during the crisis, it is the food supply chain. Despite the fact that the world is experiencing a pandemic, the food supply has gone almost normal. It's also important to have forward-looking farmers, who actually share in giving this some opportunities. It did so even when it was falling like the worst and parts of society had to shut down. The last few weeks have shown that the food supply is both robust and flexible even in a demanding situation, it has shown that international cooperation is steady, and Norwegian farmers stand firm and make a fantastic effort to produce food even when it is a bit more challenging. Norway has never been better equipped to cope with a crisis affecting food supply chains. Nevertheless, it is correct and important that preparedness is fully assessed in the light of the pandemic when it is held. I look forward to a big message about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1245	Former Prime Minister Gunnar Knudsen, among others. known for an interesting quotation: ‘At present, political heaven is politically discrete to a degree that has not been the case for many years.’ Even more familiar than the quotation itself is the time when he chose to say this. It was in February 1914, and then we know that only a few months later, so – quite without Gunnar Knudsen’s prediction – World War I broke out, among other things. in the aftermath of the shootings in Sarajevo. It was hard to imagine that a virus from Wuhan was going to lead to a shut-down world. Does the representative of Skkelstad see that this is really the same thing as Gunnar Knudsen said at the time, as former Minister of Agriculture Jon Georg Dale claimed when he claimed that we did not know what to save against?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1258	I thank you for a brief lecture on the history of the Sandtrøen representative, who at that time, of course, probably had good genes, which he has told me about earlier. There is no doubt that preparedness is important, as many have been involved in this debate. But then it's also important, as the Sandtrøen representative might have to take with him, that if you want to have good preparedness, you don't put all the eggs in one basket. I think that's part of the important thing here. When it comes to not placing all the eggs in one basket – whether it's Gunnar Knudsen, or whether there's someone coming after it – the total preparedness will be good if you distribute this in several places in the country. As I read the proposal here today, it is sad to put all the eggs in one basket that the Sandtrøen representative preaches.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1265	That is a useful comment, because that means that the representative has to read the proposal again. There are national stocks, and there may be storage decentralised in many places in the country, both smaller and larger, and there may be larger stocks of individual sites. And we're very happy that it's been opened to store grain on the farms. We were in the Workers' Party who first took that initiative at the very beginning of this big period, and it's great that it's being followed up. We're very proud of that. But to the very thing: In the last great period, we sometimes experienced – fortunately – that the Left and Christian People's Party could free itself a little bit. But there's something really weird going on here. There is already an agreed point in the Storting that the government should follow up. Nevertheless, we experience that the representative's party puts its hind legs in the ground and prevents follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1272	I do not know which legs stand at the front or at the back of them to the representative Sandtrøen, but it may be that he is somewhat longer than me, so that he may have the most problems stabilizing the body! But regardless of that, I don't think the representative got what I said in my post on food grain and on cereal seed, which we have put out quite a lot of resources to carry on. It is a little surprising that the representative does not preach about it. On the other hand, it might have been a little interesting to hear from the representative where it appears in their budget how much they set aside for the annual storage of grain when we know that based on the country's own calculations for three months, it will cost about 500 million. kr. The calculation of the joint purchase was 1.4 months in four months. It might have been interesting to hear from a later crossroads where the representative's party has put that money into its own alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1279	I noticed something the representative of Skkelstad said in his post. He said that in a crisis situation, one can only take to turn the seed into food grain and then eat up the seed. Similarly, if there is a shortage of potatoes, eat the seed potatoes, and I know from experience that it is actually possible to fry as well as cook hatching eggs rather than make it chicken and hens that can add new eggs. But are there any thoughts that the government has when it comes to food preparedness that, in a crisis situation, we see our teeth in the grain that we are prepared to sow next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1284	I talked about that in a crisis and emergency situation it is possible. I did not say that it was desirable, but if the representative heard what I said in an earlier passage in my post, I also mentioned storage on the various farms and possibly elsewhere in the country. So to follow up the representative of Reiten, the representative asked Pollestad, is it particularly solid that a rich country takes the bread from its mouth to its Ukrainians because we have purchasing power? It might have been interesting to hear, while the representative preached that they had the readiness first of all in this room. No, I think the readiness is very great in the consciousness of everyone in this room. But the national think I might be stronger in the Center Party than necessarily the readiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1291	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1296	Access to safe and secure food is an important part of a country’s preparedness. There has also been a support bar in Norwegian agricultural policy. Although there are countries that can produce more efficiently than us, on lighter land, it is a goal to increase that domestic food production. Of course, it is related to the safety of self-produced food, especially in times of crisis. The most important thing we do for food preparedness is to facilitate the production in Norway of as much as possible of the food that Norwegian consumers demand. We do that every year through the agricultural agreement. Nevertheless, there are goods that consumers do not require to produce in Norway. Our food preparation is therefore ensured through national production, trade and maintenance of the production base. The preparedness for supply in the food sector is based on the fact that both national production and imports can be maintained on a long-distance basis even in times of crisis. Today, Norway is completely self-sufficient in essential basic products such as meat, fish, eggs, milk, dairy products and coarse vegetables. The degree of self-sufficiency has increased during this government and is now approx. 50 pst. in a normal crop year. In addition, we have a coverage of about 90 pst., and it comes as a result of Norway exporting large quantities of seafood. Nevertheless, in any case, Norway is dependent on imports of inputs into agricultural production, labour, machinery and equipment. The world is experiencing an invasive pandemic these days, and many parts of society have had to shut down. Nevertheless, the food supply is almost normal. The last few months have shown that the food supply chain is both robust and flexible, even in the demanding situation we are now facing. We should be very happy about that, not just for Norway, but also for all the countries that do not have that much purchasing power, and that would end up in line in a global struggle for food. However, it is important that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food devotes great attention to the international food market, and we are pleased that the Council of State is clearly aware that the Ministry is closely monitoring what is happening in food and feed production and in markets globally. The coronary apathy requires an assessment of the entire emergency situation. This applies to the entire width of standby and emergency storage, medicines and medical equipment, spare parts for machinery, food, cereals, etc. A new Social Security and Preparedness Scoreboard has been announced to assess overall preparedness. The Christian People's Party believes that it is natural that the question of the stockpiling of cereals should be considered in the context of that notification. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is not the time to decide on the emergency storage while the message is at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1309	Good food security is fundamental to a society. We get the best preparedness by facilitating the production in Norway of the food that Norwegian consumers demand. For this reason, it has been a clear priority of this government to strengthen the grain economy for several years in order to stimulate increased Norwegian food grain production. We have also strengthened the system of emergency storage of cereals and the priority system of subsidies to grain drying and storage facilities on farm. Norwegian food safety is good. By the way, we are completely self-sufficient in meat, fish, eggs, milk and dairy products, and with coarse vegetables like cabbage and cabbage. We also have a large seafood sector, which, together with food production from agriculture, ensures a solid foundation for national food security. Norway is now experiencing, along with the rest of the world, a pandemic. In this situation too, the food supply has been approximated as usual. The last few weeks have clearly shown that the food supply chain is both robust and flexible for a demanding time. Even in this global coronary crisis, most countries see the importance of maintaining international trade in goods and supplying food. We are still dependent on international trade, for example. of food we do not have the prerequisites for producing in our country, and we depend on importing inputs into agricultural production, machinery and equipment. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Directorate of Agriculture closely follow up on what is happening in food and feed production and in food markets globally. I do not reject the fact that a stand-by warehouse may be relevant in the long term, but we must always consider what gives the most preparedness for the money. As long as we are not self-sufficient in cereals, I believe it would be more targeted and cost-effective to use resources to stimulate increased Norwegian grain production instead of spending about half a billion dollars on establishing a cereal store that needs to be filled with foreign cereals, as the proposers now want. And I'm adding, that's probably why the Center Party didn't prioritise this in the last eight years they had the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1329	The Minister of Agriculture and Food said in his speech that she did not reject the emergency storage of food grain. However, it is not the task of the Minister of Agriculture and Food to reject the emergency storage of food grain; it is the task of the Minister of Agriculture and Food to implement what the Stortinget has already adopted. So here one has to have a basic sense of role. Unfortunately, we experienced the same thing during the Korona crisis – The Storting made two unanimous decisions about ensuring food security for people in Norway. None of them are yet met. It is very serious and highly critical, and it is clear that the whole house here has to look at what has happened because the unanimous decisions have not been followed up. We agreed that we should strengthen plant production this year. That would mean that you quickly had to put more potatoes in ours. Now the government is trying to hide behind the agricultural agreement, but it will have an effect in the future, and if we lack food in the autumn and in winter, it will help very little that there will be some extra potatoes in the ground in the spring of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1338	The government has responded to the Storting that building a stand-by warehouse now – it has been said by the majority in the hall – is not where we get our money back. We want, and we have arranged for, increased food production, cereal production, in our country. We have reduced the premium for grass production where it is suitable for using grain production, just to channel and make sure that we are able to use our resources to increase the share of grain production in our own country. And if it's going to answer to having a grain warehouse, a central grain warehouse, the whole point must be that we're so equipped with grain ourselves that we don't have to deal with the trade that the representative is engaged in, but that we're actually able to supply this warehouse with self-produced grain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1344	This shows that the department has not been involved in the matter itself. The idea of emergency storage is, as I said before, that one stands armed to deal with a critical situation in the transition phase, because a rapid shortage leads to instability in society. During what was called the Arab Spring, that's exactly what happened, because then the lack of food and especially high bread prices was one of the reasons why society was destabilized, and it still wears a whole region today. In fact, I think it's very serious, because I had sincerely hoped that we could expect when the Christian People's Party entered the government, that at least positive decisions were made that the Storting had already decided. But we don't see that happening. It's almost as if it would have been desirable for us to get back the Progress Party in the department. Can we now expect that there will be a follow-up to decisions here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1353	As the Council of State and the Department that works for me as a Council of State, I follow up on the decision of the Storting. And there must be decisions that it is also possible to follow up. As for what we're talking about here, it's stockpiles for cereals. If it is to be credible, our country must actually be able to produce as much as possible itself – otherwise it is not credible. One's talking about having a readiness if anything happens in the world, but if we're going to have a stock that we depend on being filled with grain from production in other countries, it's not what was said, seriously. We have to increase our own production if there's to be a reality in what we're now saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1360	It's absolutely right that we should increase production, and that's why the Workers' Party has proposed this entire process and is still going to propose it. And during the debate following the agricultural agreement last year, I was just challenging Minister of Agriculture Vervik Bollestad whether she could guarantee that a plan was put in place in the spring of 2020 to ensure an increase in the grain area in Norway, exactly what the Minister of Agriculture is now calling for. We do not see any trace of it in the agricultural agreement now concluded, rather, on the contrary, there is a critical situation in which the grain area has fallen in all the counties of the country in recent years. So we are now facing a clear choice. If we are to implement what the Storting has decided to increase the safety of the inhabitants of Norway, we clearly need a new government. That is what is the conclusion of this debate and the other points that have not been followed up by what the Great Britain has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1365	In the name of propriety, I think the representative should go back and read the statistics on what was built up of grain under the red-green government, and what is the reality now. Yes, I'm aware that over the last two years, there has been a decline in the area of cereals, and one has to take over why. We had the biggest drought crisis since World War II in 2018 – it was a feed challenge, and it caused grain land to be laid down to produce feed. This means that, in the agricultural sector, we have now given more to cereal production and less support for grass production in areas suitable for cereal production, just to steer this back again. But the crisis that was in 2018, neither I nor the representative Sandtrøen had control over it when it was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1376	On 6 February 2018 at 2.30 p.m. 12.36. There was agreement in Stortinget. At that time, Stortinget took the following decisions: «The government is asking the government to promote its own case for the Stortinget during 2019 on the establishment of national stockpiles of grain.» The current stockpiles representative Olaug Bollestad voted in favour of this proposal. This happened when we had an agricultural minister from the Progress Party. Since that time, there have been two things: the country has received an agricultural minister from the Christian People's Party, and the decision has been abandoned. My question is, would it have been better for us who are concerned with the stockpiling of cereals, that we had continued with a Progress Party Council, and why has a KRF Council chosen to put this proposal away?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1381	If the representative Pollestad heard after what I said in my post, I said that I do not ignore the fact that I will go in for a stand-by but not where we are now. The most important thing I think we are going to spend our money now is to increase our own production of grain, so that we do not have the dependency that I believe both the representative and the representative are concerned about – that we should have a security when crises occur. Then we have the greatest security to increase our own production of what we are able to produce in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1386	Now it's a little unclear to me, because now I've heard in the debate today that both the Council of State and the Christian People's Party on the one hand argue that it's not a trick and no joke to have a stand-by, and on the other hand that they want to spend the money on something else. Then my question is, is this a question for or against stockpiles, or is it for or against the prioritisation of financial resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1391	If there had been a discussion for and against prioritising funds, I think the representative should go back to 2013 when the Central Party proposed 5 million. kr, and now in its budgets, prioritising preparedness, as the representative says, a stand-by warehouse for 30 million cereals. NOK, I actually feel that it is not serious. This will cost half a billion dollars, and it will cost 50 million. to operate. I am concerned that before I get there that I build a warehouse, I want to increase production in my own country, because I think it is a better use of the money. It's not a either-or, it's a choice about the use of money, and I have made that choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1396	The centre party acknowledges the price of emergency stock. We know that this will take time to build up, so it's going to allow half a billion dollars, for example. in the revised budget for 2020 would be unprofitable budgeting. Then my question to the Council of State, and since she now uses such critical words, I expect a concrete answer: how much money does it mean that a person needs in 2020 if he is going to have the best progress in establishing a stock of food grain? So we're going to come back to what is the Central Party's alternative revised state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1401	A number for that I can't give. I am concerned that I am spending my money on increasing production in my own country. I actually thought that the representative was also concerned about a period when, as a nation, we buy cereals from 85 different nations, just to ensure the preparedness in times of crisis. I heard the representative use Russia as an example. Russia said no to sell until 1 July because they had sold their quota, but we have secured ourselves by having agreements with very many countries just to have a safe readiness for food. But the best thing to do is to increase our own production. That is what I have been interested in using the money, and I thought the representative was also interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1407	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1414	Access to safe and adequate food is an essential part of the preparedness of all countries. That's why the Center Party is proposing to establish food storage facilities. By 2020, we're used to the fact that the shops are bubbling with food. Most people have cooking as a bigger problem than lack of food. But we must not forget that there are only some generations since we experienced a lack of rationality and food due to war. It's not unmistakable that it can happen again. The Korona crisis has shown us that a crisis can happen very suddenly and hit an entire world in a way that we could never have imagined just a few months ago. Fortunately, we have come through this crisis without food shortages, but the global supply lines have nevertheless been put under pressure. It could be even bigger in later crises. Among other things, as has been mentioned here, we have seen how export restrictions and port bans have affected both the production of and trade in rice, wheat and food oil from some of the world's largest exporters. The crisis has also shown how small it is in the government, and in the right in particular, to give priority to preparedness. On 15 March, the Prime Minister received a letter from Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to maximise food production in 2020, as a pre-war measure. The Prime Minister wouldn't do that. The government has been out in the media and boasted of secret emergency stores with food, which can really only saturate 30,000 people for four days. Last year, at the latest, the government went against the stockpiling of food grain. Even after the major crisis we are facing, it is a good idea to ensure that the people have safe access to food, even in the event of a crisis. In particular, there may be crises that should affect our ability to supply our own population, because the level of self-sufficiency is falling below this government. The government is basing itself on the fact that blocking supply lines is not realistic, and they also say that Norway is going to have money to buy food in any case if a crisis occurs that causes the price of cereals to double internationally. I believe that that attitude is both naive and unwise, because it is not particularly solidarity to rely on that we can only buy food from other parts of the world in a crisis where we cannot supply ourselves. In addition, all countries want to supply themselves before selling food. Large exporters such as Russia, India and Ukraine will not sell food to other countries if they cannot supply their own population. We have also looked at the restrictions they have imposed during this crisis. Preparedness is about keeping goods, and the price tag on food grain emergency stores is not large. We believe in the Center Party that it is a small price to pay to have safe access to food for the entire population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1427	I started my post today by saying that all of us sitting in the hall want to work for as good a readiness as possible for the people of Norway. When the representatives of the Central Party then stand on the pulpit and claim that it does not vote, I think it is both arrogant and self-righteous and a little humiliating. I feel that the establishment of food grain stocks and proposals for what is being promoted over and over again have become a kind of symbolism policy for the Centre Party. I wonder why the Center Party didn't do anything about this for the eight years you put in power yourself. Only when you were about to leave the government, you made a suggestion about it. Over the course of eight years, you didn't do anything about it. Then I have to say that I am a little confused about this proposal. You want to set up a cereal store, but what kind of cereal store would you really want to set up? Is it going to be one big national? Is that supposed to be three-four? Should it be like the last time, with two pieces in the north and three pieces in the south? The representative Sandtrøen stood here instead and said it could be very nice with some storage on farms as well. This I think the opposition needs to study a little bit more carefully, and figure out what you really want. As part of the emergency support, we believe it is important to provide smaller storage facilities. We have explained the quantities available at Norwegian mills and at the purchasers of cereals. We have explained how important it is to facilitate the storage of food grain, which we have strengthened. Norway has never been better equipped to deal with a crisis of such dimensions as we have seen now, both economically, economically, in terms of food security and preparedness. The pandemic we've had has shown us that there are some holes there, but not within food safety. I now look forward to bringing food security and all the different areas of preparedness into one and the same context through an updated version of the Social Security and Preparedness Scoreboard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1440	The Korona crisis has once again shown us the importance of a large and stable Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. Randomly, the pandemic did not come at the same time as a drought or conflicts between countries that would affect our access to foreign imports. Fortunately, we seem to be getting through the crisis in terms of food supply, but it is also a clear signal that we need to be more and better equipped for a new crisis to hit agriculture and our food supply harder. That's why Red proposes to have a state measure of 50 pst. self-sufficiency of food without the use of foreign power feed materials. In 2018, this share was 36 pst. Producing the food we can here to land is part of our global responsibility, we believe, and having a state grain warehouse must also be part of our preparedness. That is why we support the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. We also need to increase our own self-sufficiency, not only through objectives, but also through actual action. We need to renovate degraded land, provide grants for conversion to loosing, for small and medium-sized applications, ensure better drainage on existing soils, establish more sediments and take measures to promote pasture grazing, such as building fences and testing "Noofence" technology. Red has proposed over three billion in our crisis programme. SEK for cereals stocks, cut VAT on Norwegian fruit and vegetables and a package of measures for Norwegian agriculture based on Norwegian resources. In order to increase Norwegian self-sufficiency and preparedness, it is not enough to store cereals and increase the use of Norwegian soil. We also need to reduce the use of imported feed materials. We therefore propose to explore a two-price system for feed for domestic animals in Norwegian agriculture. Until 1981, in Norway, we had a system of power - feed rebates where the feed needed from animal numbers and feed notes was discounted. Feed consumption in addition to that was more expensive. It ensured that the grass was used, and that no more power was used than necessary. The objective of the scheme shall be to increase self-sufficiency in Norwegian agriculture by contributing to increased cereal production, reduced power-feed consumption and to increasing the use of grass and grazing resources in Norway. So far, the crisis packages for other industries have been 300 billion. kr. It should then also be possible to use money to rebuild a national preparedness for us as a nation. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1455	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1460	In the course of the debate, I've been kind of uplifted when I hear the Left and Christian People's Party on the speaker's chair, because I notice that they see that we have some points, and that there's a little will to try to get something – so then it's a little gear and optimism. And then the right on the speaker's chair -- the retort's stronghold. There is no will at all to strengthen cereal preparedness and food preparedness, and then I am back to my start. That is where the explanation for this proposal is stopped: this is not Right-wing and Progressive Party policy, their policy is to travel to the world market and trade when a product is needed. Preparedness has not been a particular concern. So that makes me a little depressed. When it comes to the questions that came from the Right Representative, a sort of criticism that we didn't do it in 2012 or 2011: it may be, but history here is that time has evolved over decades, from the 1980s to the 1990s with disarmament, etc., and then there was a tightening of the situation. I could well imagine that we got this in 2012 and not in 2013, because then it is not certain that Erna Solberg had managed to stop it. But the point is that the debt that we don't have a standby stock in Norway is on the Right and the Progress Party, because it was they who put it in the state budget for 2014. It was also a little ridiculous that we don't have a clear model for how we want to do this. Our goal is that on the day the Norwegian population needs this nutrient content, it should be possible to get it out, it should be present. I think it's a government task to figure out whether this is going to happen in large grain silages, whether it's going to happen in combination with some large silages and local storage on the garden, which will also give income to the farmers, or whether it's going to happen only in the form of storage on the garden, and how the interaction is going to be, for example. mills and others bearing cereals. I mean, it's a government task to come back to that. That's why I react when the Minister of Agriculture first criticises the Centre Party for adding 30 million. kr in the 2020 budget, saying it is too small. And when we challenge the Minister of Agriculture and ask how much we need, and how much the Ministry of Agriculture manages to spend on this in 2020, we are told that it does not know the Minister of Agriculture. Then I think that before a critic, one should at least have the answer. And I hope that the Minister of Agriculture, after the debate in some form or another, will be able to inform the Storting about how much one can use for this purpose in 2020. When it comes to Red's proposals, we will go against them, with the reason that we want to present a separate package of measures for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1473	It's a pleasure to listen to the representative Pollestad. He forces and wants an answer from us in position that we have given him in many ways. Yet: Over the eight years they put in government themselves and had the opportunity, they didn't do the least near, until the last year. We have heard from the debate that it costs 30 million. kr annually, which has been deposited by the Centre Party. And then we've got two more numbers. One is what it costs for the joint purchase for four months of storage, and what we have received from the ministry in three months of storage. If you have three months of storage, according to the arrangements of the Center Party, it's going to escalate to 16.7 years. So it's a relatively long way. Take another one, it's under 50 years old. It's a little interesting to see that you're making suggestions without thinking about it yourself and just pointing that question straight towards the Council of State. Otherwise, it could have been said a part of the debate here, which we have not so much come up with. The minister himself said that the best readiness is to produce enough food. I would like to include one more thing: of course, part of the response is to implement it as the then opposition, with the Central Party at the head, wanted to do a blow to the channelling policy. This is the best defence for a stable preparedness over time. That's definitely what it says, that we produce cereals on the areas that are adapted to cereal production. So some comments on the proposals of the representative, Mr Moxnes and Mr Rødt, that we do not support. I would like to say a few sentences on proposal No. 3: If proposal No. 3 had been completed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it had clearly weakened the level of self-sufficiency, because we are not ready at this point in time. We don't have enough protein crops to keep both meat and milk production up compared to what is self-sufficiency today. So it's in stark contrast to what Mr. Moxnes said here, that this would accelerate an even greater degree of self-sufficiency. It would, on the contrary, in the short term create the opposite. That doesn't mean I'm against the idea that we're going to be able to create the protein crops and what's going on in order to have a good Norwegian power feed, which we can produce for our livestock.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1484	It's amazing that when the Storting debates agricultural policy, it likes to be polemics between the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, which are two parties that really stand for the same thing in terms of agricultural policy. That's the way it's been this time, too. I must therefore use the opportunity to update the representative Pollestad a little on the history of the proposal to which I referred, from 2018. Then the Central Party first went on a roll where they were down on their proposal, which meant adding a sum of money to the next year's government budget. And then a subsidiary voted in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal, where there was no money in it, but where a government asked to come back with a case. The government has. This has been assessed and one has then landed it, as the Council of State has done well for here. So I just have to say that sometimes in these debates I can't free myself from associating the representative Pollestad with a football board. What characterizes football papers is that one from the side line has many loudly voiced comments, but unfortunately no influence at all on the game. Then I believe that the representative Pollestad will also agree with me that the Christian People's Party actually has high credibility in the agricultural organisations in Norway. There were many of them who came with judgmental prophecies in 2013 when we got a government change, but the Christian People's Party has delivered. We have been on our agricultural policy. And we want to pay tribute to our government partners, because in that very area we have in cooperation with first a minority government and then a government we went into ourselves, experienced a very great understanding and accepted that this policy area would be controlled by the Christian People's Party. It has contributed significantly to the good cooperation climate between the four parties after 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1493	Whatever the characteristics, the President will point out that the representative Pollestad is doing a very good football game!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1498	I believe the Council of State Bollestad and the representative Pollestad are quite happy with the same football team, so at least there we agree! But I want to make a comment, because I almost felt it was said that the Christian People's Party had been cuddled by the Right in government on this with readiness coats for grain. There's no cow here. The Christian People's Party that the party has done is that we have taken responsibility. When we went into the government, we evaluated this matter completely on our own, and we sincerely believe that the most important thing to do first is to prioritise Norwegian grain production, in order to increase the self-sufficiency of Norwegian grain production gives a better preparedness. It is not like this that I at the same time reject the fact that there may ever be a need for emergency storage equipment for cereals in the long term, but I sincerely believe that it gives the best chance to increase Norwegian production first. That's the background of the position we've taken. We think it is better for the Norwegian preparedness and the Norwegian population. That is why we are giving priority to this. When I am then asked how much money has to be put on the table this year, and it is said that I cannot answer, it is not so strange, it is not even certain that we should have a stand-by. That's the result of this. That is why I agree that we should have good food security, I agree that we must make sure that we have enough food grain, but I believe that the best way is to give priority to increased production first. So I'm going to join in and discuss standby stock afterwards, but to base a standby stock on buying more from those who may have little before, I think is a wrong way to prioritize now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1509	The representative Geir Pollestad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1515	It was just a brief comment to the representative Reiten's view of the opposition. It might be that some times it's going to be in the opposition, like standing on the sidelines of a football field with 'otherball jacket' on, hands down and yelling at the game. But I'm also very happy with children's football, it's important. There are few things that create more joy, more frustration and more need to shout than when you look at the little kids who play three on each layer, and one of them gets caught up in the ball and jumps across the entire path, towards its own goal, and tightens the ball. In this case, I may feel that this player is called Steinar Reiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1522	It's good with a little smile and funny comments. But at the same time, this is a deeply serious issue, because it is about security. I think it was surprising to hear the Minister of Agriculture say that she had not been culled by the Right, because that means that it is the Christian People's Party itself who has deliberately chosen not to follow up the decisions made by the Storting for increased food security and for better security for the population. It's actually quite eye-catching, because it can be so important that you're being bullied and pressured to go against something you really are for, but if this is right, it's a whole new line, and it also explains why we haven't been followed up on absolutely essential points for better security and for better self-sufficiency. We saw the same thing after the drought crisis in 2018. Then the Christian People's Party was also free – free to vote what you wanted. We then made proposals to increase self-sufficiency and better preparedness. Unfortunately, it was voted down. So the increased output that the Minister of Agriculture and Food now says the government should give priority to, could already have been on the move and already have been strengthened if the Stortinget had been in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal in the autumn of 2018, after the drought crisis. This is what makes the whole case complex so paradoxical. It actually reminds us of the debate we had just before it on the stockpiling of cereals, namely vaccine production. In a situation in Norway, as the government itself claims, the biggest crisis after World War II — perhaps taking a little too much of a word like that — should at least use its power to follow up and ensure that there is better security for the inhabitants of Norway. That is why this is deeply serious. It is – as I mentioned earlier – fine rhetoric from the Right, but I think this is a bit of the reason why many people in Norway get a little frustrated by what they call politics, because there are a lot of words. And then we find that the Right agricultural figurer talks about readiness, and then you vote the other way around, when you could have joined in and reinforced it. Then we have a heartfelt desire on behalf of security and self-sufficiency: a new government that can take into account the reality of how food supply actually works in the real world. Not theory and excuses, but action, follow-up and a concrete, ground-based approach are what is needed for better security for the people of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1537	The representative André N. Skeleton has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1542	My wife says I'm heavy-headed. It may be that the representative Sandtrøen also suffers a bit of the same thing. I thought it was quite clear what the Council of State of Bollestad said instead of what was important in terms of preparedness. What's amazing is that the centre party from this hall has been criticized for not doing anything about this in the eight years they put in government, but it put a larger party there too, which has not been mentioned in this case. The working party put in government in exactly the same period and did absolutely nothing. It's okay to swing, be tall and dark and also tell good stories, but it's not sure that it's as difficult to score political goals – as I think there's someone in this room who does. The representative Pollestad refers to boys' teams or something like that, but it's more often political self-targeted. It could have been asked: why did the Workers' Party not do anything about this when they sat down with government power?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1547	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1564	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1571	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in dealing with the reindeer management agreement. Proposition 99 S deals with the Purity Agreement 2020/2021 concluded between the State and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund on 27 February 2020. The clean-up agreement is, in addition to the clean-up law, the main instrument for pursuing the objectives and guidelines of the clean-up policy. The Committee considers it very positive that agreement between the parties was reached through negotiations and that there is a unanimous vote in favour. It's a good deal, which has a total of 149.5 million. kr, which is an increase of 13,4 million. kr compared to the contract for the current year – in other words, an increase of about 10 pst. compared to the current agreement. The agreement provides for the continuation of the priority of those whose main activity is reindeer activity. The direct grants for reindeer operations are continued. The provision and the rate of the calculation of the production premium are increased. The priorities of the contracting parties are to strengthen the industry’s framework conditions. The Contracting Parties agree that there is a need to improve the possibility for reindeer owners of holidays and leisure time. Therefore, there is agreement to increase the district grant, and a change is made to allow districts to cover the costs of replacements when reindeer owners are on vacation. This year’s reindeer management agreement continues its efforts to develop the reindeer management industry as a rational, market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term and highlights the importance of equality of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. The premium schemes that strengthen increased production and turnover still need to be given priority and to facilitate the reindeer owners whose main activity is reindeer activity. Today, most of the grazing capacity has been used up to the maximum. Norwegian reindeer farming operates on an almost constant area where it is important that the total number of pure pastures is adjusted. There is a shortage of grazing resources, and good management is required to maintain good weight on animals and good animal welfare. According to reported figures, about 74 100 pure were slaughtered in the calendar year 2019. This is an increase of 10,850 pure compared to 2018. It's positive. Therefore, the cleaning industry must increase production and profitability through other operational adaptations than through increased livestock numbers. It is important to ensure a stable grid according to grazing resources, and it is therefore important that the reindeer management agreement should support those who have followed up the reduction decisions. Reported figures as of 31 March 2019 show that the total reindeer has increased from the same date in 2018 and that the reindeer in West Finland is now at the lower edge of 2 000 pure above the required reindeer figure. In order to prevent a new unfortunate reindeer trend, sites which increase their purity beyond that laid down will be followed up in accordance with the provisions of the Reindeer Operations Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1592	Purgatory is a great part of our country's culture, and it's a very great way to produce safe top-quality food on resources that would often be left unused. On the part of the Workers' Party, we think it is positive that this year's reindeer management agreement improves the possibility of combining holidays and leisure time in the reindeer industry. That's why we see it as very positive that there is agreement between the parties to increase the district grant, and that a change is made so that districts can cover the expenses of the landlord when reindeers are going to have vacations. It's an important aspect of our agricultural policy that other parts of agriculture also need and enjoy, so it's super that it also improves in the reindeer industry. Otherwise it has been a demanding winter for many in the industry with a feed crisis. It shows the importance of having preparedness measures and of having a crisis response fund large enough to deal with that type of unforeseen situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1601	In the course of the year’s negotiations on the reindeer management agreement, the contracting parties have given priority to those whose main activity is reindeer activity, and the parties have also paid great attention to the ongoing grazing crisis. The situation with plenty of ice and snow, which made pastures inaccessible, was characterised by the parties as an ‘extraordinary situation’. I am pleased that the parties to the agreement have strengthened the crisis response fund through the current agreement, so that support is given to the purchase of feed. The 2020/2021 Agreement also provides for further strengthening of the Fund in order to provide support in similar situations in the future. We support the strengthening of the district grant so that districts can cover redundancies and vacation expenses, so that the reindeer’s opportunities for more leisure time and holidays are strengthened. We have noticed that the monitoring programme for Finnmarksvidda shows that the reindeer pastures have had a positive development after reindeer reductions, but that the situation is that the grazing areas have been used up to the maximum. Contracting parties agree to increase production and profitability in areas other than through increased animal numbers. Then it is good that the possibilities of reindeer owners for follow-up and support for development projects are continued. The priorities of the Contracting Parties shall reinforce the framework conditions for the industry. That's good, and we're giving our agreement to the reindeer contract proposition as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1614	I am pleased that we have reached a reindeer agreement, and that it has included in the agreement money for standby so that we can handle such conditions as we have had this winter. There has been a hard time for the reindeer industry, and here I want to take the opportunity to boast about the work that the industry did in a crazy time. There were children of reindeer workers who did not see their father until now in the spring. Focus on providing food for the animals was fantastic. Feeding started early, and this feeding led to almost no loss of animals due to the grazing crisis. In 1989, 60 p.m. was lost. of the herd of reindeer, and the problems were giants for a long time. Predictability also applies to the amount of production to go to wild game. Robbery interferes heavily with the reindeer's economy. The centre party believes that the state does not fulfil its obligations by allowing the robber to take so much of the livelihood of the reindeer industry. What we're experiencing now is that newborn calves become too much eagle food. For those who experience this, it is tragic and perhaps unnecessary. We need to listen much more to the industry itself and really recognise the solid competence of the industry. The sewerage industry itself is the one who can tell what works, and what does not – and then we have to listen. We need to take in their skills in the same way as we have expert committees and expert investigations in other fields. You don't have to have an academic doctorate to be an expert. When we talk about reindeer operations, we often talk about reindeer numbers. I have said it before here at Stortinget, and I say it again: Clean drift is so much more than pure numbers. In the future, I hope that we can now shift the integer focus a little bit. You can't just keep building up pastures to make the reindeer live on fewer and fewer clean. All of us expect annual salary increases. An industry cannot cope with the loss of its performance base and, in the next round, with the requirement for further reductions in reindeer numbers. It's nice to see that it's good recruitment to the industry. Many young people participate and want to enter the industry — in whole or in part. Norway should be proud that we have a strong and living reindeer industry, a unique indigenous industry that produces fantastic raw materials in poor and weathery pastures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1629	Purification is an important cultural activity, and it also takes care of our indigenous people. Then, of course, they must also have the same opportunities for both replacement and inclusion in district grants. Welfare schemes also mean having the opportunity to develop that industry in the same way as in the rest of society. As I said, it is an important culture that delivers amazing products. Red meat is good, but there's also a lot more in this, because this isn't just an industry, it's also a culture. There are opportunities that may not have been taken equally high, but that could evolve, and there are travel experiences. I think the reindeer has a lot of opportunities around it in the future. Then we have this crisis preparedness thing that we've been into before, and the grazing crisis that we've seen in Finnmark now, but I also think there's something here that we have to take into account in the future. It is clear that grazing is a minimum factor in reindeer management, access to grazing, both summer, spring and winter pasture. We also see in my area, in Fosen, that we have some challenges. Some of the challenges are called windmills, and it is one of the major challenges for reindeer management. I think that society should perhaps see more that this is not just simple cabin areas, but these are large industrial areas that are being taken – right in what is grazing areas for the Sami business. It will again go beyond grazing areas, which will, in turn, make it difficult for the indigenous population to live on its diet. I think we also need to take that into account in future debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1638	In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased to note that agreement has been reached between the State and the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsförbund on the reindeer management agreement for the 2020/2021 contract period. The Granavolden platform shows that the Sami reindeer is an important cultural carrier for the Sami people. This was based on the fact that, in cooperation with the reindeer industry, the government is facilitating an organic, sustainable reindeer industry, which also aims to increase production and profitability through rational and market-oriented operations. The Government places emphasis on the industrial right and organisation of those whose main activity is reindeer activity, which is also reflected in the reindeer management agreement agreed by the parties. It has been a tough winter for those who have come out in the reindeer industry. Unusual climate conditions, with a lot of snow and locking of pastures, have made it necessary to provide additional financial assistance from the State for the feeding of herds of reindeer. About 160,000 pure people have been affected by the grazing crisis. It's actually going to be 75 pst. of all domestic animals in Norway. I am pleased that the parties in the negotiations and, moreover, through ongoing dialogue have found a solution to this problem, first by transferring 10 million. kr from Rein driften’s development fund to the crisis response fund during the current contractual period, then through an additional allocation of 20 million. kr, when it became clear that neither would it be enough to remedy the acute grazing crisis, and in addition 10 million. kr in the revised national budget for 2020. I want to take this opportunity to give the NRL and the political leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food a boost to good dialogue and joint initiatives to find solutions to the acute crisis that the reindeer industry has been experiencing in recent months. As regards the restructuring agreement concluded for the period 2020/2021, there is reason to rejoice that there is also a sharp increase in the overall economic framework this year. One year ago, the framework increased to 136.1 million. NOK, which was an increase of 10.6 pst. from 2018. This trend has been continued in this year’s agreement, which increased the framework to 149.5 million. kr. Thus, the overall framework for the reindeer establishment has been increased by 21,5 pst. in two years, which shows that the Solberg government has ambitions to ensure good income development and strengthening of social arrangements in a typical district industry, which is also an important cultural carrier. We noticed that this year the parties have chosen to give greater priority to holiday and leisure opportunities for reindeers through an increase in the district grant. After a winter and spring of grazing crisis, the parties now agree to strengthen the crisis preparedness fund, and the development programme is continued. The principle of prioritising those with a main activity as reindeer is also used for the reindeer management agreement of the year. These are good priorities that we give our full support to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1653	I am pleased that we have reached an agreement on an agreement with the industry. I am also pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind this. I think that is reassuring to the industry. The cleaning industry has been in a very difficult situation this winter and spring. Exceptional snow conditions have made it necessary in large areas to feed pure food with power feed. I have followed developments in the grazing crisis closely, through dialogue with public authorities and the industry itself. In May I finally got a trip to Finnmark. It made a strong impression to meet those who were standing up in this crisis with both legs. Already during the reindeer management negotiations on the reindeer management agreement, we received good information about the situation, but it was only linked to a few geographical areas. I am pleased that the parties to the agreement decided to use the equity of Reinbruket’s development fund to provide funds to the crisis response fund. The grazing crisis persisted, and the government proposed to grant $20 million. kr in the crisis package before Easter, and we have proposed another 10 million. kr in the RNB. I think we have responded well to the crisis. Then there's always something that can be done better, and we'll look into how the grazing crisis is managed towards next year's reindeer negotiations. The clean-up agreement 2020/2021 has a framework of 149.5 million. kr. So the frame has increased by 13.4 million. kr. This is a very good percentage increase in the frame. New in the year is the inclusion in the agreement of financing measures for reindeer excluded from winter pastures in Sweden. This is important, because there is no quick solution to the challenges of cross-border grazing between Sweden and Norway, unfortunately. The grubbing-up agreement continues the priority of reindeers with reindeer as their main activity. We continue to facilitate the development of ancillary industries for this operation. This latter is essential to increase the value creation of reindeer operations. The sewerage industry is a fantastic industry with many challenges. Robbery, climate change and infrastructure development are demanding for a land-dependent industry. I want to use the good dialogue and the good cooperation I now have with both the Sameting and the NRL to work on these challenges and to pursue a policy for the industry that benefits the individual reindeer and that continues the reindeer as an important Sami cultural carrier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1678	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1685	So today's map is ready to debate. The cancellation will now take a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1704	The called alternate for Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, is now taking the seat. The size shall vote on case No. 32 on Monday's map and on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1721	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1736	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that only active apprenticeships are awarded public contracts in the fields of vocational training in force and that these contracts require higher apprenticeships than those normally available to the firm.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1753	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asking the government to issue out-of-date requirements on the competence of employers and construction managers.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1770	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before it concerning the increased seriousness of public tenders which ensures that serious craft enterprises with apprentices, self-employed workers and trade union workers have effective market access. In the case of works requiring building permits and rights of responsibility, professional competence must be required for the performance of the task.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to allow municipalities to award training enterprises, which are at risk of having to leave apprentices and trade union workers, maintenance tasks after a pre-arranged hourly price. The award shall be made in cooperation with the social partners.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1809	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1821	The store then goes on to vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1852	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide a cost overview of the costs incurred and costs incurred in setting up the base for maritime surveillance aircraft at the Evene airstation.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1885	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size agrees that the Ministry of Defence will be able to launch new investment projects in 2020 and modify the cost framework for previously approved projects, including major property, construction and civil engineering projects referred to in Chapter 2 New material project for approval, Chapter 3 New property, construction and civil engineering projects for approval and Chapter 4 Modification of the previously approved property, construction and civil engineering project, in the proposed project, within the limits of the cost framework, with the exception of an increased cost framework of about 0,5 billion. crowns for the establishment of maritime patrol aircraft facilities at the aircraft station of Evene.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1909	During the debate, Terje Aasland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a case for the Storting that ensures public-private cooperation on the establishment of a national cluster for the development and production of vaccines for humans, animals and fish.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1942	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asked for a two-priced system for feed for domestic animals in Norwegian agriculture, using the model from the previous 'power discount' scheme which was closed in 1981."
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1966	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present a package of measures for agriculture, in order to ensure increased Norwegian maritime supply.’ The Green Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e1988	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide funding and a plan for the implementation of food storage preparedness in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-09.ana.ud457e2144	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
