ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e47	Two permit applications are filed. from the Green Group in the European Parliament on sick leave for the representative of Une Bastholm from 12 March onwards and until further notice on sick leave for the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad from 18 to 27 March The President proposes that these applications be dealt with immediately and be accepted – and see it as agreed. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application to be released from meeting at Stortinget under the representative of Une Bastholm's leave, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates are convened to meet during the leave period as follows: For Oslo: Kristoffer Robin Haug from 12 March until further notice For Vestfold: Kari-Lise Rørvik from 19 March to 26 March
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e94	Kristoffer Robin Haug is here and wants to take a seat. The President will inform you that, as a result of the situation with the coronary virus, case No. 5 on today's maps go out. At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e125	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e136	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a well-written, balanced and good presentation. From Stortinget we can join in the situation descriptions and analyses provided. The Minister of Foreign Affairs last week spoke about the serious coronary epidemic, and yesterday the World Health Organisation concluded that the virus outbreak is now a global pandemic. From a Norwegian foreign policy perspective, the spread of the corona virus at home is also a crossroads of thought. Compared with the number of inhabitants, we are very high in the case of coronary infections in Norway. We have twice as high infection rates as China in relation to the number of inhabitants. We're a traveling people. We're used to the foreign stations issuing travel councils for the Nordics going out. Given the infection rate in our population, we now experience that the authorities of other countries are warning their citizens against visiting Norway. So now many people don't want to visit us. Uganda has introduced 14-day quarantine for travellers from Norway. It's breaking with our sense of reality that we're always safest. We Norwegians are well used to being on the world top in international rankings, so we're unfortunately at the top of the world when it comes to coronary infections. This epidemic and pandemic show how cohesive the world has become and how vulnerable we are. The prime minister of Denmark is talking about standing together by keeping away from each other. Land now also keeps a greater distance by shutting down airports and imposing a travel ban. International trade is affected. When this crisis is over, we must do everything we can to strengthen international cooperation across our borders. Transparency and effective cooperation between countries are and will be the best way to combat what is today's greatest threat, whether it be pandemic, nuclear threat, extremism and terrorism or the climate crisis. Since the Foreign Minister made his statement, we have marked the International Women's Day. In the last decades, gender equality has made important progress in many countries. In the homeland of Pope Frans, Argentina, the President now proposes that this be the first country in South America to legalize abortion. So far, Argentine women and health professionals have been at risk of a 15-year prison sentence for an abortion. But the main picture in the world today is unfortunately that equality goes in reverse. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the right to control one's own body is a fundamental human right. But unlike other human rights, we can actually promote this right effectively by using means of assistance, by spending more money on ensuring access to prevention and safe abortions, not least in areas of crisis, war and conflict. That is why I do not understand the budgetary priorities of the government. In 2013, President Obama crashed in the United States. At that time, the Stoltenberg government spent 1.1 billion aid crowns on family planning and reproductive health. By 2020, the Trump administration is in control of its cuts, and only in Mozambique, 380 000 people have lost access to contraceptives after the Trump cut. Nevertheless, there is a huge cut in the government's budget. Only 364 million are used. kr on family planning and prevention. It's a big cut. When other countries descend, I believe we should safeguard these human rights by stepping up Norway. On 2 March Israel held its third parliamentary elections for a period of less than one year. Neither did one of the two government options receive a clear majority this time. A common list of four Arab and Jewish-Arab parties won 15 of 120 seats in the Knesset. Sitting Prime Minister, corruption-proclaimed Benjamin Netanyahu, nevertheless proclaimed himself to be the winner because the Arabs are not part of the calculation. Israel is often referred to as the only true democracy of the Middle East, but that kind of language about its own citizens is not worthy of a head of state in a democracy. We must certainly also make demands on the Palestinians. In Palestine no parliamentary elections have been held in 14 years. Innumerable attempts to obtain Palestinian collections after the 2006 elections have not been made. But Palestinian assembly is a fundamental prerequisite for progress in a peace process. In my opinion, this is an important role that Norway can play actively, and we can use our chairmanship in the donor country group to mobilise support for a Palestinian assembly administration. At the same time, we must be clear-minded in the face of violations of international law and occupation. A balanced Middle East policy cannot have a different standard in meeting with Russia or Morocco than with Israel. The principles of international law must apply either to the occupation of Crimea Peninsula, Western Sahara or to the Palestinian territories of the West Bank. The alternative is that we allow the strongest right to prevail. Security policy was the main theme of the year’s presentation. We need to rehabilitate and strengthen cooperation in the NATO Alliance and the UN. These organisations must also provide the basis for our military contributions abroad. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention the situation in Sahel and France's request that we contribute Norwegian special forces in Mali. The Minister of Defence told Dagbladet that there were different assessments of this issue in the government. It might have been interesting to hear the Foreign Minister's assessments. I believe Norway should stand up to combat extremism and terrorism, including military contributions, if necessary. But we need to have a critical discussion about every single request we get. As ISIL stood right outside the door of the Kurdish population in Northern Iraq, the Kurds did not ask for woolen carpets and statements of support. They asked for military assistance. Several parties in this Chamber were opponents of supporting the Kurds militarily, and several parties today believe that Norway should withdraw its remaining Norwegian soldiers from Iraq as soon as possible. I'll warn you against that. We are to withdraw Norwegian soldiers from Iraq at the moment the government of the country no longer wants us there, or the security of our soldiers cannot be guaranteed. With a rapid extraction, we are at risk of creating a new vacuum of power. Terrorist groups such as ISIL and Al Qaida are given easier footholds where authority control is lacking and great instability prevails. In Norwegian schools and kindergartens, iodine tablet distribution plans are being implemented in the event of nuclear incidents. Nuclear weapons play a more prominent role in international security policy. Disarmament and arms control agreements are being confused, disrupted and terminated, with negative consequences for Norwegian and European security. The precise situation description of the Minister of Foreign Affairs needs to be followed up with actions and new initiatives. The INF agreement prohibiting medium-range nuclear warhead missiles has been terminated by Russia and the United States. It is important for Norway that we now prevent a new nuclear arms race in Europe. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessment of this topic and what she will do to help the START agreement continue. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that Norway's longest border is not against Sweden, but against the Atlantic. Now the North has never seen our long-distance coast as a constraint. The coast has been our door to the big world. It's been like this for the Vikings, for shipping, fish, oil, gas and today's sea wind. In geopolitics, we would like to say that geography is constant. But that's not exactly true. The Eurasian and North American continental plates are slipping apart at a speed of 20 mm per year. The political climate of cooperation between the United States and Europe in recent years may indicate that the speed of continental plates is higher than that. The United States remains our most important ally. We've dealt with disagreements before, and we're going to stick together. Norway is an Atlantic country. Nevertheless, there is a need to think again also about old cooperation. I believe it is still an unused potential in Nordic security and defence cooperation as a complement to NATO. We would like to say that we need to avoid having security crises become too big for Norway, but too small for NATO. Using Nordic cooperation to close this gap is one of several concepts we can work on further to pin our security and security into a new decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e170	The previous post, by the committee chairman, leaves the undersigned and perhaps some others also somewhat in doubt as to what is the Workers' Party's proposal – what is the Labour Party's leading line in foreign policy? It started with a kick against the Minister of Health, who has probably not made a statement to the Stortinget! – then a shift into family planning in the Third World, for which we are all, and then a more selective attack on Israel, as if Israel represented the only problem in the Middle East. I am delighted with the continuing interest of the Workers' Party in the human rights violations applied in the self-governed areas as a targeted suppression of civil rights, which we take for granted in Israel. But I expect that time did not go on, in their attacks on the government, to explain their own policies. A bit of the same starting point: the unexplained pandemic reminds us of the expression «The Global Village» – «The Global Village» – and how concrete this expression has actually become. It dates back to 1964 by a social writer named Marshall McLuhan, and it really went more to the fact that the whole world's culture would collapse – fortunately that hasn't happened. But what we remember about, and what we see, is that humanity is densely woven together through international division of labour, through economics and commodities. Much of this is good, and it's peace-building. Climate problems are also common, and they call for joint efforts and concerted action where we see that our international institutions are not functioning effectively enough. Nevertheless, it must also be noted that at this time geopolitical power politics has had a great reindeer. The rule-based world order is under pressure, protectionist ideas are prospering. The two-sided superpower system that we were used to living with is, as many have pointed out, replaced by a multipolar order, or a system. We see more clearly the emergence of regional, hegemonic countries that are part of this pattern. Universal regulation is slow and enforced half-heartedly. It is true in this image that Norway, as part of the Western community, does not state the work of fundamental human rights, democratic institutions and international law. Much of this is well described in the multi-message that Stortinget has just debated in this room. However, it may be appropriate to stress that national States are the actors in the international formation of regulations. In particular, democratic countries will have high legitimacy among their citizens, not least because they can influence their authorities by all, and they can replace their politicians directly. At the same time, the world does not stop at the state border of each country. There's too many where it starts. In a country like Norway, which is not large, but which has achieved its prosperity through both work discipline, skill and luck, we are more than dependent on our environment. It is not a passive addiction or an opportunistic alliance that has given us our natural covenants. It's common culture, it's common ideas about freedom, common ideas about respect for individuals and about a regular state power and peaceful power exchange that gives it real cohesion, what holds. Therefore, there is also a weakening of Norway’s interests when our alliances are weakened by setbacks for these ideas – when NATO allied countries resort to authoritarian experiments and are dedicated to war adventures outside their own territory, when new members of the European Community, such as Poland and Hungary, believe that the best settlement with their communist past is to use their popular mandate to prevent competition for power or to gain control of the media and, if necessary, weaken the guarantees of the rule of law against abuse of power. At the beginning of this week, I visited Poland and its main political institutions, including the so-called Senate, which has given the opposition an opportunity to control the National Assembly. The political majority has been tempted to over-exploit their position to undermine the principle of power-allocation, and perhaps the most important part of this principle: the independence of judges and courts. Norway’s contribution through the EEA funds is targeted to support democratic development and free organisational life. The visit also included the representation of the OSCE, and the picture drawn by both the Poles themselves and the foreign observers is not clearly gloomy: Poland has not yet been lost, as it is also called in the first line of its national anthem. However, it is clear that without the ongoing EU procedure under Article 7 and the other monitoring mechanisms, conditions would be much worse. The system will still be able to be reformed from the inside, and no choice has yet been recognised as not free and fair by the observers, to some extent different from developments in Hungary. The same requirement for democratic development has further progress in other EU countries in the former Soviet-dominated belt from Stettin to Trieste. In reality, it represents a formidable progress from the ‘best case scenario’ of the postwar period, which was peaceful coexistence between democratic countries in the west and totalitarian socialist one-party dictatorships in the east. But that doesn't mean we're going to measure ourselves against historical standards. We have to measure ourselves against a standard that gives hope of participation and human rights in the world we are in now. With regard to relations with Hungary, international criticism has also been raised of the legislation, which is directed towards NGOs, international universities and the conditions of independent media, including the judicial system. The previous EU Commission presented two reports, from April and July 2019, with an ambition to strengthen the framework at European level in order to enforce the rule of law and to prevent problems arising in compliance with the rule of law in the Member States. In addition to the already proposed MFF negotiations on the economic impact of non-compliance with the rule of law, the EU presents inter alia: an idea to increase the monitoring in the field of the rule of law and to provide an annual legal report. I would also like to refer to the Paris Agreement, which many naturally celebrate. However, it is the European Union that makes it legally binding within its members, unlike some other countries that regard the Paris Agreement more as a resolution and an expression of its position. The EU has therefore followed up through the Green Deal, the EU Green Agenda, and the current Commission President has just made the green agenda an absolute top priority with the presentation of a European agreement and its related work programme, which will provide the overall framework for the work on climate, environmental and natural policies. In addition, the green agenda should be turned into a horizontal cross-cutting consideration in EU cooperation, with the integration of the World Sustainable Development Goals, and the EU is expected to present a number of actions in the various sectoral areas by 2020. The EU will also present a biodiversity strategy to ensure high ambitions in this area for the October summit and a forest strategy to stop deforestation. I mention this to say that the main political cooperation in Europe is being driven forward and driven by the EU institutions, with their faults and with their shortcomings and with their disagreements, but within a democratic framework which means that not everyone else is being fought down with power, but that common policies are being developed through good arguments. It is therefore sad that Norway is outside this community. We're in, as far as it's possible, on the premises of the others. We would also like to participate in shaping a further development of the Dublin Agreement within Schengen, but we only have consultation arrangements, even if we have joined the Schengen acquis itself. I believe that Norwegian foreign policy will lack a decisive factor as long as we are not too fully involved in European political cooperation. It will be up to the different representatives to work for in their parties, so that it can change, but there will be a defect, and there will be something hollow at our – let's say – announcement of the international rule when we are not even involved in developing it right outside our own living room door.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e204	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his presentation, but my tribute will not be as unison as the chairman of the committee. This may be because the Right Party and the Workers' Party have swapped that chair since World War II, roughly. There are probably only a few exceptions to that, and the policy will be about the same. In a world that is experiencing enormous challenges related to the global spread of the deadly corona virus, in a world that is experiencing a potential global migratory pressure on Europe's outer borders, in a world where our defence Sallianes are experiencing existing challenges, in a world where Norway's own neighbourhoods are subjected to undue pressure from key world actors, the Foreign Minister already chooses to focus on climate change in the first section. In other words, the Minister of Foreign Affairs chooses to do so in a case where scientists are increasingly uncertain about cause and effect, and where Norway's efforts are in any case only of a politically correct cosmetic nature and in addition are an extreme financial burden for businesses, consumers and public budgets. It does little to help what Norway does, as long as China and India continue to expand polluting power plants and industry. We should also focus on challenges that we can actually do with, and that benefit our own country. The Secretary of State admits that a few decades ago she was somewhat naive when she thought that freedom and democracy would continue to spread across the world by themselves. She wasn't alone in that. The famous U.S. statesman Fukuyama wrote the book The End of History and the Last Man, which concluded that liberal democracy had won. However, it is a paradox that this was long after Islamist extremists of different kinds had taken control of several countries in the Middle East. Political Islam had its preponderant victory when Iran was made an Islamic presbytery in 1979. That freedom and democracy will spread in the Middle East is and will become a hope and not a reality. Both Shia and Sunni-inspired Islam stand in the way. It is not everyone who has freedom and democracy as an ideal. At that time, as today, the Progress Party warned against the increasing global influence of Islam and how extremist forces within Islam made the work against human rights a religious commitment. Women's rights, equality between men, freedom of expression, democracy and secularity were regarded as a Western phenomenon. Decisions taken at the United Nations in New York made little impression on the Middle East and African dictatorships. Instead, the UN gathered to make several of the same states members of the UN Human Rights Council. The idea was that it is better to include them in the work on human rights than to leave them outside. This is how Venezuela and Iran can, within the framework of this forum, criticise Norway for breaking human rights and give us advice on improvements. The world will be deceived. The Minister for Foreign Affairs correctly pointed out that in some countries sexual and reproductive rights are increasingly being discussed as controversial. Furthermore, in some countries, sons receive preference in front of daughters. This, of course, is totally reprehensible. However, I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is quick to identify countries that make the living situation better for their own inhabitants, but refrain from identifying those countries that do the opposite. These are referred quickly to as ‘some countries’. Like all other countries, Norway’s starting point for foreign policy should be the best care for Norwegian interests. Sometimes it involves the conclusion of bilateral or multilateral commitments, but in other cases it will mean that Norway, as a small country, should not interfere with or engage in global policies. It is not that Norway has a duty to the world, but if we manage our home, our economy and cooperation well, our trade relations in defence cooperation will contribute to multilateral security, technology development, increased standard of living and poverty reduction. In this way Norway may appear as a model for other smaller nations. A nationally focused foreign policy may be characterised as self-advised and populist. But if individual countries were not to pursue their own national interests, who should do so? There is much evidence that several countries focus more on national interests than on multinational commitments. Instead of accusing these countries of populism, a somewhat deeper analysis should be made and asked why. It is not unnatural for countries to be more introverted if they have a historical experience that opposite attitudes and approaches have led to pressures on national security, culture and identity. The coronavirus is also thoughtful. We clearly see the negative effects of globalisation on our open economy. The growing interdependence of the world at the same time makes us more vulnerable when crises occur. When China sneezes, the world gets cold. Rarely do we get it better illustrated than now, literally. Production stops, businesses shut down, extensive travel and open borders bring the virus here. It is important to cooperate globally and regionally on prevention and defence against pandemics. But the country's commitment is primarily to ensure its own population's well-being. It is a recognised and accepted understanding that money given away through annual and increasing aid budgets makes the world a better place. But that's not obvious. Of course, both those who give and those who receive believe that such activity is positive. The donor will naturally experience self-satisfaction by helping, while the recipient will naturally be pleased with the help. But there stops the obvious. Of course, rich countries such as Norway are going to contribute to our abundance, but we are not going to contribute in a way that will make the need even greater in the long term. That is exactly why we have to make demands on the recipient countries. Assistance cannot be counted as successful if countries do not gradually become less dependent on assistance. If it appears that the need for assistance continues or increases, projects should be closed. Furthermore, it is appropriate to require that countries receiving Norwegian aid do not simultaneously produce new waves of migration towards Europe. In order to improve living conditions in their own country, assistance must be conditional on a stay in the country. If aid leads to increased dependence, it is neither clever nor generous. It is like giving alcohol to an alcoholic — without comparison. This year the aid is just under 40 billion. kr. This makes Norway one of the most generous countries in the world. We overwhelm the objective of the United Nations that countries should use 0.7 pst. of GNI on development. Increasingly smaller areas of action and a more pressured Norwegian economy in the coming years require a tougher priority in the budgets. Norway's main responsibility is its own citizens. Assistance should therefore not be at the expense of outright needs at home. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs lists many important developments in the world. Power shifts from west to east, the same thing makes the economic center of gravity. At the same time, there is an increasing rivalry between Beijing and Washington. Furthermore, Islamist terrorist groups continue to grow, and the pressure for migration towards Europe is increasing. The conflicts are currently going east-west, but I would argue that the lines of conflict south-north are probably so sharp and fundamentally challenging. Not least, technological developments reinforce all trends, and communication lines that it used to take days to create are now happening in real time. Despite this, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Norway should not automatically adjust its foreign policy. It might seem a little strange. While the world around us is changing fast, we're going to stick to ours. It's a little hard to get this to harmonize. Yes, we're still going to be members of NATO, and we're still going to defend an open and liberal trade between nations, but once everything's moving, we also have to adapt to the new realities. For example, we need to realise that the reception of more and more refugees and asylum seekers is not in Norway's interest, nor will it solve any global challenges. We must further develop an even closer relationship with our leading allies and explore the possibilities of establishing a new and overall cooperation between the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. These are countries that Norway has much in common with both culture, history, language and technology, and not least are all natural transatlantic allies. Adapting the country's foreign policy in line with global developments is not about following newspaper headlines; it's about adapting to the world as it is, not how we would want it to be. In any case, our focus must be to safeguard our national interests and our obligations. Speaking of newspaper headlines, there is little indication that these are also read in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The claim that populism is spreading and that, among other things, is a more eccentric foreign policy from several countries, is easily recognizable. It could as well have been described as a national recognition that the challenges facing countries are not solved at open borders. It is then necessary to have a policy that takes account of this. This is not populism, but common sense. In recent times, we have experienced a government that is increasingly defending Israel's interests. We have recorded that Norway will not end support to the Palestinian self-government authorities, despite the fact that this assistance is demonstrably used for the dissemination of anti-semitism and hatred against Israel. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed that this support be phased out, but each time the Foreign Minister is able to find new reasons why such assistance should continue. It happens even with a self-declared Israeli friend in government. The Progress Party is the only party that stands up both in word and in action for Israel as a lonely democratic light in a region filled with hatred and terror. One might wonder what the region would look like if the requirements of the left-hand side had been met. And through its science in a number of areas, including medical research, it wouldn't surprise me if it's just Israel that finds a vaccine that's cracking the coronary virus. The Progress Party has registered the government’s – let’s say – boundless ambition to fit in with the UN Security Council. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a general justification is that Norway and the Nordics are Nordic, European, Atlantic, but also global. That sounds great. As a consequence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs claims that Norway must take part in the responsibility for defending and reforming committed international cooperation. From such a vision, it would be thought that Norway’s ambition to enter the UN Security Council is a result of self-sacrifice in which Norway, in the spirit of Nansen, is willing to take on an international position, at the expense of all other useful tasks. In such a perspective, of course, why Norway spends $10 million on campaigning for our candidacy. According to the Foreign Minister, as a member of the Security Council, we will work for international law, human rights, international humanitarian law and the humanitarian principles. As Norway competes with Ireland and Canada for the two vacancies, it must mean that these countries do not have the same ambitions. As chairman of the delegation of Norway to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to say a few words about the change of words taking place in the Assembly. My experience over a few years is that the assembly is more relevant than a few years ago. This is not least due to the fact that the assembly has become politically wider — or as the Foreign Minister would have said: more populists have come there — and that major strategic security issues affecting the alliance at several levels are being discussed. The great strength of the Parliamentary Assembly is that it is composed of the various parties of the Member States. Furthermore, many countries have a completely different culture of debate, making the exchange of views more acute and more spontaneous and interesting. Fortunately, completed manuscripts – like mine – are a defect. As so-called rapporteur in my committee, I have presented a report on the use of sanctions as a political instrument, and will present a report on NATO's challenges and opportunities for cooperation with China in the autumn. It obviously assumes that the world will return to normal within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e267	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and very thorough distribution of foreign policy areas that are important to Norway. It is not the big conflict in Norwegian foreign policy, and we should be happy for that. We're a small country, and we need to talk to one voice. Nevertheless, there will be different emphasis on different areas, and as a result, one may wonder at the representative Tetzschner, who in the introduction was so hairy when it razed the post to the leader of the committee. At the beginning of the 2020s, we see a changing value and a changing security policy image. We are witnessing increased tensions between the major powers, a weakening of the multilateral world order and major global climate and environmental challenges. Of course, this is demanding, but it forces us at the same time to prioritize and choose what is most important to us. The Central Party believes that conflict mitigation, local security and work to eradicate poverty and ensure food security should be a key area of action within Norwegian foreign policy in the near future. The Foreign Minister said in his speech on 5 March that her distribution this year would have security policy as a main theme. This tells us a lot about the state of the world today, also in our neighbourhood. In short, the security policy situation in our neighbourhoods is worsening. The report Focus, published by the Intelligence Service in February of this year, points to strongly increasing Russian military activity in Norwegian neighbourhood only in the last year. In addition, the stable build-up of Russian military capabilities comes since 2008, when their military reform was implemented. The focus indicates that the activity in the northern regions has not been as large as it is now, since it is known as the war. In August 2019, we were e.g. witness that the North Fleet, in conjunction with the Austersjöflött, carried out the largest maritime exercise in our vicinity since the Cold War. Parts of the bastion defense were established all the way down to the North Sea. This is a worrying development, and it is a development we must take the utmost seriously and deal with ourselves. We see an increasingly globalized value. Developments over the last 20 years — especially with the Internet — have brought the world closer together. We're not going to work against globalisation and digitisation, we're going to welcome it. At the same time, we must have a conscious attitude to that. Saka with Huawei and 5G networks show what challenges we can face with the new technology that comes. High-tech solutions can support various forms of social and political control, which we should be particularly aware of. The Arctic’s major powers are another element in shaping the everyday life of Norway, which will shape our security situation in the years to come. The sea ice melts, and there will open new sea routes in the Barents Sea. China has defined itself as a close Arctic state and has shown great interest in establishing itself along the new sea routes. China has among others purchased ports along the new sea route that will grow. The United States is no longer as keen in its role as the guarantor of Norway and Europe's security, while Russia has developed an ever-increasing will and ability to act against other neighboring and sovereign states. An increase in the presence of major powers in our vicinity makes the construction of a strong national defence a fundamental future bet area. Security policy developments will shape our choices and priorities in foreign policy over the next few years. In the light of today's security policy situation, with an increasingly cold relationship between East and West, it is not justified to experiment with the security policy frameworks of Norway. We have to stick with our allies in NATO and not build parallel structures. The centre party has had and has a critical hold on the EU's construction of an independent defence system. Large resources are already being bonded. Pesco has e.g. more than 40 different projects, all to be planned, managed and implemented, and only one piece of defence cooperation for which France is the main driver. President Macron has also stated that France is willing to share its nuclear resources with other countries in Europe. At the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels in February, the building of a defence alliance in the EU was a topic, and it developed into what a closest must call a mouth-to-mouth between parliamentarians from the United States and France. The members of the US Parliamentary Assembly claimed that the EU was failing the NATO alliance and that the construction of an EU defence would weaken, not strengthen defence capabilities in Europe. It went so far that they reminded the assembly of the efforts of the United States during the Second World War, and that one cannot take the United States for granted. I am afraid the EU's parallel in defence will not strengthen security in Europe. NATO has been the world's most successful defence alliance, and for Norway it is not good news if NATO is weakened as a result of France's wish for an alliance in which they are in the leadership. Norway is dependent on the United States and the United Kingdom as good allies, we have historical cooperation, and none of them are members of the EU. It is not possible to include the corona virus, nor in this context. A virus discovered in Wuhan, China, has spread all over the world in a few weeks and has had enormous consequences. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, such an epidemic shows how close the world is to the quiver. The situation has also shown how vulnerable we are, and how the world and the world economy are stopping. The health service does not have enough infectious diseases equipment, we cannot import enough. Stores are empty, and the countries which have them need them. Imagine if this virus had been a virus or contagious bacteria that happen to food, it's by no means unmistakable that it can happen. It is in such crises that we are reminded of the improbable importance of self-sufficiency of the most important. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has sent out a list of what supplies we should have in order to secure food for three days, but three days are fast, and in a security policy picture Norway must now address the issue of food supply when a crisis occurs. The Centre Party has also long advocated a clear prioritisation of sustainable food systems in Norway's multilateral development policy. Food shortages and crop failures are increasingly the cause of instability, conflict and migration. We need to pursue a policy that not only tolerates sunshine, but also rainy days. We have to work to ensure that countries are self-sufficient and have the ability to provide food and water to the inhabitants, even at times when the world seems to stop a little, and world trade can collapse. The UN is doing a particularly important job in today's international societies, and Norway must give priority to the UN's important work. For every year that goes by, the deadline for fulfilling the sustainability targets comes closer. The World Bank has said that support for small-scale farmers has the best effect in reducing poverty, which is one of the first objectives – along with eradicating it. Norway has a high potential to increase just the effort in this area; it is an area that is far too low, also in the light of the climate change we see today; climate change that will lead to large areas becoming useless for food production, which in turn can lead to migration of a scale that only makes today's migration a warning of what can happen. This must be taken seriously, and it is an important part of the security policy image that has been given too little space so far. We need, as a country being heard in the international dialogue, to raise climate change and preparedness within water, food, medicine and health even higher on the agenda. Norway must use the voice of the international community to dampen conflicts and to do peace-building work. We must support the UN and the NATO alliance and strengthen our own security through a realistic approach to what we see around us. Just these days, we see that it is not just a weapon power that can set even the largest nations out of games. For this reason, Norway must bring the total defence both here at home and in other countries, so that in the future we are better prepared – also against crises such as the coronary virus, which now prevails over the global community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e297	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is finishing up on science. I'm glad she took up the pressure on women's reproductive and sexual rights, and I think it's positive when she says that people-to-people cooperation should be strengthened when Norway takes over the leadership of the Barents Council. What we're all thinking about now is the pandemic and our preparedness for it. That is something that illustrates what we are discussing in each of these debates now: a world in which international cooperation is under pressure, where the acts of power are more arbitrary, and where authoritarian regimes in parts of the world are on the rise. And it's important to discuss it in this context, because international cooperation is so important to meet the pandemic, and also because someone is trying to present it as if dictatorship is almost effective in such a situation. I think it's a cross of thought that in parts of the debate now there's a lot of attention around China's handling of the virus, while there's a lot of evidence that the lack of freedom of expression in the Chinese dictatorship is an important reason why the virus spreads. So democracy and open debate about how we strengthen our response, and appeal to international cooperation is particularly important in the situation we are currently in. At the limited time I have, I want to mention two things that the Foreign Minister was in his statement. One is nuclear weapons, disarmament, and the other is the refugee situation in Europe. The only way to ensure that nuclear weapons are never used is to dispose of them. And I'm recording that the government is concerned that several states globally have what is called an armament-driven behavior, that is, that we experience upgrading and increased international tension. Then it is good that the Minister of Foreign Affairs highlights the agreement that we have related to non-proliferation, but it is also disappointing that the government continues to refrain from supporting and highlighting the UN ban process as a relevant, important and even absolutely necessary measure for nuclear disarmament. Norway should be one of the countries that put pressure on nuclear weapons countries to negotiate, with the aim of implementing mutual disarmament. We can do that by joining the UN's nuclear ban. At least Norway should participate as an observer at the State Party meetings of the Prohibition Treaty once it has entered into force. And we see – contrary to what some claim in the debate here at home – that the ban works. 81 states have signed, 25 have ratified. It goes faster than many had hoped. And we see that it works, for example. by increasing the withdrawal of financial actors from the nuclear industry. It is this kind of pressure that Norway should contribute, rather than actually putting itself on the side of nuclear power by not participating in this process. The Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that it is unacceptable for Turkey and Erdogan to use refugees and migrants as a means of pressurisation against Europe. We all agree. But I find it disappointing that the Foreign Minister does not mention in one word Greece’s request to pick up vulnerable refugees to remedy the situation. Greece is in a very difficult situation. We have a humanitarian crisis in Europe. We now see countries that are willing to participate in the evacuation of some of the most vulnerable refugees — many of them children who have been alone for a long time, without schooling, without follow-up. The defence system set up by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has collapsed. Then it is the SV's clear view that Norway should go ahead and say it is ready to accept some of these now, both to remedy the situation in Greece, to put pressure on other European countries, and because we can actually make a difference for some people in a difficult situation. Then my time is up – that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e312	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very thorough presentation, which shows in many ways the full breadth and size of the Norwegian international commitment by being on many themes – themes that I believe there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we should step up our efforts. It is important for Norway and the world. Of course, there is also reason to think about the international dependence we have, which is now illustrated by the coronavirus, the covid-19 virus, and how quickly this situation now changes internationally and in us. I agree with the representative Lysbakken that one has its own responsibility in Norway and in other democratic countries to show that we are able to deal with such a situation, a pandemic, with the strength required to stop the development we are now experiencing. Where we are now, where there is an escalating trend also in Norway, it is important for us to show clearly that we have the will to take vigorous action, whether it is to close schools or other measures, as quickly as the technical advice suggests. It also matters beyond the exact situation we're in right now. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent so much time on a situation we are in that goes on for a long time, but that has a trend that is becoming more and more concerned about, namely the climate change we are facing. We are in the year in which the Paris Agreement will show whether it has the necessary force, by notifying each country of its new targets by December this year. I am very pleased that Norway has been out early. We have said that we should strengthen our national target to 50-55 pst. It is important to influence the EU, so that the EU also strengthens its target with equivalent and works to reach 50–55 pst. There is no doubt that Norway and Europe are the leaders in tackling and showing how to reduce emissions quickly enough. However, it is also important that we have been early on in terms of influencing the major emitters to strengthen their targets during this year — to a sufficient extent too — so that we can believe that we can keep global warming below 2 degrees and down to 1.5 degrees. We have to cut emissions, and it has to happen quickly. We have now established stronger cooperation with the EU by having common targets by 2030. That's good, but it doesn't keep reducing emissions. We also need to take care of nature, so putting in place the new Convention on Biological Diversity is also important. This also applies to the international work we have for, among other things. to provide rainforest. The major challenge is to establish a global economy within the resilience of nature. Everything else isn't rational and doesn't make sense. It will also happen within an open economy and free trade, because this must be closely linked to the cooperation we need internationally to achieve the UN's sustainability objectives. The UN's sustainability target is that you can't pick anyone, you have to reach everyone. In order to achieve these objectives, democracies must lead. There is a lack of democratic leadership in the world today. During the past week, the American Foundation Freedom House has presented its report for 2019 on the development of civil and political rights in the world. It was the fourteenth year in a row that there were several countries that had a negative development than there were countries that had a positive development. So there is no doubt that democracy, the rule of law and human rights are under pressure at international level, from major activisation, where Russia, China and Iran are pursuing a policy of undermining democratic systems, but we also see it in democracies, where authoritarian forces must be combated, whether in Hungary or in other countries. One final point: NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy, and it needs to be nurtured and strengthened, but we also need more European and Nordic cooperation. Europe also needs a strategy in the Middle East that is long-term – for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. It is the only thing that can provide the necessary stability over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e331	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive and interesting presentation. Norway is so dependent on other countries that it is important to know firsthand what is happening around us in all directions. We see that there is reason for vigilance over global developments, probably more than for a long time. International policies are moving more than we would like. Countries with more authoritarian regimes act with greater confidence, preferably with open violations of human rights and restrictions on freedom of belief and freedom of life. Populism and special interests lead to self-advised foreign policy. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen changes in stability and democratic values around the world. It concerns everything from top management in the major acts to the majority of parliaments who move and gain power at the expense of democracy and case law. The proportion of democracies that have been weakened in the last ten years has increased, and although this is a global challenge, Africa is the region that currently has the largest share of non-democratic regimes. I believe that Norwegian assistance can benefit from increased efforts in the field of democratic assistance. A strong civil society and free media are prerequisites for a living democracy, which can hold the authorities accountable. Today, civil society and media freedom grants receive the largest share of Norway’s support for democratisation and good governance. Any democracy with free elections must have democratic and political institutions and politicians with continuity. Democracy cannot be imposed from the outside, but the Christian People's Party believes that Norway should support actors asking for such democratic assistance. In these virus days, we particularly see the importance of multilateral and global cooperation. Epidemics and disease have no borders, and research and action need to be coordinated for the benefit of humanity. The outbreak of the coronary virus has been declared by the World Health Organisation as an international health crisis. It has a direct impact on the world's stock exchanges, but this is nevertheless a secondary concern when health is threatened. The Christian People's Party is grateful for the WHO's coordinating activities. In this connection, it is great that the government has made an extra contribution of 10 million. kr in order to reduce the spread to developing countries with weak health systems. Speaking of national borders – Norway’s membership in NATO is of great importance, and we need to maintain a peaceful neighbourhood in a reassuring way. However, Norway is one of the largest ports with portals and watercourses into the Arctic. Our defence should therefore be operational, effective and targeted on the basis of the safety and threat assessment carried out at all times in the sea, in air, on land, in space and in the cyberworld. The Christian People's Party would like the Nordic Council and the Nordics to strengthen their capacity to act as a collective foreign policy actor. The Christian People's Party also agrees to maintain a close alliance with the Baltic countries in order to ensure consensus in common security policy interests. The Christian People's Party will maintain today's form of association with the EU and is satisfied with a well-functioning EEA agreement. The agreement ensures optimal access to our main trading partners, and we would like the projects for which we allocate EEA funds to be monitored, quality assured and targeted where they are needed. This year, the development of agreements with the United Kingdom following a Brexit of great interest. I'm glad that the signals so far indicate that Norway gets to keep all the good relations we need. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway must actively contribute to finding a committed common European asylum and refugee policy that is humane and has a fair distribution of responsibilities. The situation in Syria, the Idlib bombing and the battle between Turkey and Greece are of great concern to us in the Christian People's Party. People are concerned with the human tragedies we see in the media and feel powerless. People are particularly concerned about the children, who have been completely innocent victims of a cruel policy. That is why the Christian People's Party is impatient and will help the government in every way to find a minimum of common solutions with other European countries on lasting solutions and measures for people in extreme despair and distress. With regard to the causes of the suffering, international efforts, extensive diplomacy and the use of sanctions are required. The United Nations has its main role here. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports Norway’s contribution and cooperation with the UN and hopes to succeed in a place within the Security Council. The UN is our best body and instrument to move on. The agreed sustainability targets are one of the best that has happened in a long time. Here, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that some of the best and most recognizable values come to light, namely, management responsibility, neighbourly love and human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e354	First, I would like to thank you for both good contributions and good input into the discussion, and I also record a significant consensus on both the priorities and the assessments. Since we're in the situation we're in with the coronary virus, and since I've already made my priorities known through a comprehensive presentation, I'm going to spend most of my time on the virus, but answer some things pretty briefly. In my presentation, I spend a lot of time on security policy, and I spend a lot of time on disarmament. That's for a good reason. I also tell you in some detail about the role of Norway and our initiatives to bring about disarmament, and in particular about the international leadership we have taken on verification. It's a crucial work both to build trust and to ensure that we have verification procedures and techniques that can verify real disarmament. It is also a work where we gather nuclear and non-nuclear weapons states. It's almost the only area where it's possible to get into an otherwise very polarized debate. There has been a clear prioritisation on our part, and we continue that leadership. Otherwise, I refer to what is said in the statement. So for migration. As I explained, we are working for pan-European solutions. We believe that this is important because more EU countries and countries in Europe must be involved in taking this responsibility. We therefore follow closely the discussion on relocation in the EU. We have now received a request from the German authorities regarding the relocation of lone minors from Greece, and that is a request the government is now considering. At the end of the day, when it comes to recording and commenting, I would say that the government has taken a very clear position on sexual and reproductive health and rights. That means in the years from 2020 to 2025 we're going to spend 10.4 billion. kr in this field, because, as I said in my statement, the right of women and girls to decide over their own bodies and their own lives is absolutely fundamental. We are doing what we can to support it through UN organisations, where we are now one of the greatest donors to UNFPA, the UN Population Fund. We have increased our core support, and it is very well received by the organisation. They clearly contribute to sexual and reproductive health and rights. Let me then go over to what is now a big, serious and important matter. I would first like to mention that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health will make a statement later today, warning the strongest and most comprehensive action in Norway in peacetime. I'm referring to the health issues, but I'd like to say something about what the situation is now in terms of how we operate, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our outposts. It's quite obvious that the virus and the outbreak are limiting how we work. Like all other departments, we have put in place measures to fulfil our core functions. There are measures that are to be continuously assessed to be reinforced, but we follow the advice given by health authorities. In terms of our stations out there, the situation is the same there. We work very long to avoid shutting down foreign stations, but the situation in some countries is that it is not possible to avoid in the long term, and that will apply to all countries, not just Norwegian foreign stations. What we also work very closely with the health authorities about is to issue travel advice and travel information, and it is important for the Nordics who are travelling abroad, or are planning to travel abroad. Over the last few days, we have seen that more and more countries impose severe restrictions on movement within their countries, but also on entry and exit and quarantine. That's exactly why we've been very clear in our travel councils, which is completely synchronised with the health services' infectious diseases council. Normally, our travel councils are slightly different from the health authorities' councils, and that's because we're going to think about the situation of the individual who's leaving, while the health authorities are going to think about how, for example. An infectious situation in Norway will be the case if you come from a infected country. In the case of pandemics, this goes on and on and on, and it doesn't make much sense to separate these assessments. That is exactly why we are fully synchronised with the health authorities. This means that Nordics considering travel to areas not yet subject to travel advice must also make their own assessments and follow closely the fact that countries can, at very short notice, impose either travel restrictions, quarantine provisions, or that health authorities are unable to handle travellers or others if they need health care. We update continuously, but these are things that go from hour to hour. We advise against travel that is not entirely necessary, a number of places, but in general the situation in the world is now such that everyone must follow closely the restrictions imposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e387	Thank you for a very good post and for the foreign minister spending a lot of time on the corona virus. I got from the committee's vice-president almost the understanding that it was an insult to address this issue, but I'm glad that the Foreign Minister had a slightly different attitude that we can discuss the issue that perhaps engages the Nordics the most in these days. What has confused was some of the foreign minister's concerns. What is the advice of the public health authorities, and what is the travel council of the U.D.? Is it now that the U.D. is following up on what is the Travel Council of the public health authorities, and that they override the travel council of the U.D., and that it is the same advice that applies in any case?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e394	As I was a little bit into it, the starting points for these advices are kind of different. Normally, the U.D. launches travel councils, i.e., a renunciation of travel, into areas where there is a state of war or war threatens, or there may be natural disasters that make it difficult to maintain one's own security. Public health authorities often have the opposite starting point, i.e. what you can take home from, for example. infection. But when it's pandemics, this goes into each other. That's why we work very closely with the health authorities, and we also have now to say quite similar advice. It's simply because we see that if you go out or come back, the risk of infection is the same both for the individual and for Norway as for society. So I also think it is important to stress that when we issue travel councils where we advise against unnecessary travel or advise against travelling completely, there is also a signal that we may have limited opportunity to provide consular assistance if anything happens. It could be either because we don't have a presence because it's a war situation, or because, as in this situation, we may have to shut down embassies if the situation in a single country so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e403	The Minister of Foreign Affairs said they were more collided. But in what areas are they not co-ordinated – where is it seen that the public health authorities have advice other than that provided by the U.D.?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e408	I don't feel that there's any different advice now between the public health authorities and the U.D., but since this situation is moving hour by hour, in some context you'll probably be able to experience a couple of hours of delay. But this is simply because we are now working on bombs day and night, both to get an overview of the situation in the different countries and to try to be in the front line to see where the situations are going and where they are going to evolve, and at the same time to give as good and accurate advice as possible. Nevertheless, I would like to stress, as I said at the Chair, that it is important that those who continue to consider making trips also become aware of the situation in each country, for example. which travel restrictions apply internally in the country — there may be a reduction in public transport, which makes it impossible to move around the country — and often the embassy of the country concerned will also be able to provide guidance in addition to the U.D.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e415	In February, the government came with its Climate Change Course and reported an enhanced climate goal under the Paris Agreement. Norway shall now reduce emissions by at least 50 pst. – yes, up to 55 pst. – compared to the 1990 level of the United Nations, and this is completely without knowing what the price tag will be. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out in his statement: ‘The greatest challenge of our time — climate change — cannot be resolved without cooperation with China.’ China is expanding its coal-fired power plants. Only in 2018 did Chinese coal-fired power plants emit 51 times as much CO 2 as all Norwegian climate emissions combined. The government is clearly willing to impose significant costs on Norwegian taxpayers and businesses to reduce emissions of minimal importance in a global perspective. What is done about climate change such as China? It's actually where the effort should be, and that's what I'm asking the Foreign Minister for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e432	As I also said in my presentation, China is a good example of a country where development is bilateral. These are new openings of, among other things, coal-fired power stations, while China is an important player in multilateral relations. It is important to include a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. It is also a significant nation in terms of renewable energy. The image is not one-sided in any of the areas. That is why it is important to work with China and to include China in multilateral cooperation. Without it — if you stay out of China — it is much harder to achieve these goals. We can view the United States as the second example, which drew out of the Paris Agreement. Nevertheless, it appears that the United States will achieve many of the objectives, precisely because the Länder have taken a significant responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. So even though the United States was withdrawing as a nation, there is considerable work in the Länder and not least significant cooperation between Norway and several US states related to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e439	We see that the infection not only happens to us human beings, but also to animals and plants. Globally, we see that food shortages lead to unrest, conflict and migration. And self-sufficiency, both in Norway and other countries, should be higher on the agenda. I saw that the foreign minister nodded when I mentioned this in my post. Environment Minister Rotevatn recently told the NRK that the Centre Party must not use the pandemic created by the Korona virus to drive what he calls the Central Party's agricultural policy. The centre party believes that this problem complex is too small on the agenda both in Norway and internationally. Is the Foreign Minister agreed with Rotevatn, or does he think the Senter Party has a point?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e448	I talked about one aspect of climate change in my presentation, and it was related to conflict, for climate change is, and is increasingly going to be, a threat multiplier, and which makes many conflicts either start, be extended or worsen. In that picture are just resource conflicts, lack of food or food uncertainty, themes that we put a lot of emphasis on. That is one of the reasons why we have put forward a strategy for sustainable food systems, and that is one of the reasons why we have increased the allocations to vulnerable countries, how precisely this is a major challenge – to provide access to food and, to a large extent, to work. This is also the reason for the great sea bet, where the government has taken international responsibility. We know that the world's need for food in the future must be met, the sea must play a more significant role. It also means that we need clean, rich and productive seas. If not, we will not be able to meet the nutritional needs of poor countries either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e453	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the briefing on the latest, and then I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be as clear as possible. I think that something people have experienced as frustrating to now in dealing with this is that many advices and recommendations – and I don't talk about U.D.'s special – are perceived as too ambiguous – that is, that we on the part of the authorities do not want or solve calls, but very clear expectations, and that people are not told that it is fine if they don't go there, or that someone travels there on their own responsibility, but that it is our expectation that this and that place will not happen to you. That's my call. So I have a question. It is: to what extent is there now European and Nordic coordination of actions? If our actions succeed, however, we will have major problems if Swedish measures fail and the infection spreads.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e460	To the last question, there is enough health ministers and health authorities to answer exactly that. We're dealing with what's going on with our travel councils and our outposts, but that there's a need and importance for coordination is quite obvious. So to the first point, it's very important to have clear advice when we have a good enough overview of the situation that we see it. As the virus spread has come and this has evolved, we have gradually received it. I would also like to say that precisely because we in Norway have not had any serious cases until recently, it has been challenging to make the population understand the seriousness of this pandemic. We have seen that, among other things. by the fact that those who have been quarantined may have had a different view of how it is to be implemented, or that it has been difficult to understand the seriousness of this pandemic in the world, and how, by being so close together, we can also risk it in Norway. That's exactly why we're very clear in these travel councils, and we're also very clear on what we can do for help, and what we can't do for help, if something happens when you're abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e470	From one point to another, I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs before about our desire to enter the UN Security Council, and I am not getting it quite clear what Norway wants to do in contrast to other countries. It was about human rights, humanitarian law and international law and the classic concepts used in such a debate, and that we should fight for it. Now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has regular meetings with our competitors, so I guess it will come up as a natural agenda point what the other countries want as a focus. I guess that's not classified information, so if you could give some information about what the others would focus on, that breaks with what we focus on. It is clear that when you are going to be a member of the Security Council, there will be preparations going on, and it has been going on a long time ago. How much does the Minister for Foreign Affairs plan to increase the staff in New York to get this violent work in place in the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e475	As the representative heard in my last part of the statement, I gave an overview of how we want to use the seat of the Security Council, if we are elected. So it's not like the other two candidates really break what's a basic Norwegian line, or how we want to use the Security Council, but we've emphasized that we have some advantage that we think separates us from the others. One is about our very long-standing peace and reconciliation efforts, how we can use the Security Council both to prevent and resolve conflicts. Then we've been very clear that working in the Security Council anno 2020 is an incredibly complex task. It is not at all simple or particularly lucrative. There's a lot of hard work, and there's a lot of dilemmas. What we believe is that small countries such as Norway must take responsibility at regular intervals. It's been 20 years since we last sat in the Security Council, and we think it's important that we once again assume that responsibility. We will do so in cooperation with both the permanents and the elected members of the Security Council, and we will do so together with the other members of the United Nations in order to contribute to peace and conflict resolution, among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e482	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e487	Let me just start by saying that I fully support the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government in terms of the UN Security Council. It is true that Norway takes the responsibility and that we also take responsibility for the complexity it represents. In 2006, together with colleagues from foreign ministers from France, Indonesia, Brazil and South Africa, I took the initiative to cooperate on health and foreign policy. It was inspired by the experience I had from the World Health Organization, where we saw that so many of the world’s health challenges had consequences for policies between countries – it could create conflict, and it could create cooperation. One example was the challenges of cross-border infection, the management of epidemics and pandemics, which affect not only vulnerable people but also authorities. SARS in 2003, swine flu in 2009 – this is the new standard. This is why policies must be included in the prevention of outbreaks and dispersal and proper health care at the right time. Where sickness and poverty make people and society particularly vulnerable, there is a risk of collapse of both countries and policies. It is in everyone's enlightened self-interest to counteract it. The spread of the coronary virus to over 100 countries is now defined as a pandemic by the WHO. We're once again seeing how closely the cohesive world has become. We travel more, have global financial and commodity markets and production chains, and that makes us more vulnerable. Norway supports the WHO’s leadership and coordinating role in the global process. It's positive that the government will make an extra contribution of 10 million. to the work of the WHO on preparedness and operational response in developing countries, where they are most vulnerable to infection. We support the fact that Norway is a major contributor to the epidemic and pandemic prevention coalition, CEPI, with a total of 1.6 billion. kr towards 2025. The CEPI has initiated the development of vaccines against the coronavirus, and Norway has a leading role in which we should take good care. Now the fight against a contagious virus is taking almost all the attention in all countries, and there is talk of the most invasive measures since World War II. However, the major challenge is for all policies to combat climate change and global warming. Therefore, climate policy must also be part of foreign policy. There are common features between health and climate. We can say with great certainty that the living conditions of people in many places on earth will deteriorate over the next ten years. There are especially four dimensions pointing out. Firstly, climate-related conditions can exacerbate and exacerbate current crises without being the root cause of the crisis. Secondly, climate change can contribute to conflict, for example: where they result in increased competition for limited resources, such as: clean water when nomadic people flee from increments meet residents, or through migration. Thirdly, we see purely humanitarian crises. Vulnerable countries that already have limited capacity to meet the needs of their inhabitants in normal situations may be completely overwhelmed by climate-related natural disasters, thereby reducing their response capacity while only exacerbating the problem. And fourth, in geopolitics, we would like to say that geography is solid, it's constant. Norway is where we are, with the neighbours we have. We don't choose our geography. But climate change also changes geography. For example, ice melting in the Arctic leads to the gradual opening of the Arctic Ocean. Our neighbouring country Russia is in practice getting a new northerly coastline, and states from far away are joining us on our borders. It obviously has foreign and security implications. Therefore, an effective government in the 2020s needs to understand the practical impact of the climate crisis on Norwegian foreign policy and development policy. Effective international cooperation is clearly essential. The Paris Agreement was important and Norway should deepen our climate cooperation with key actors such as the EU and China. The trade war with the United States, new risk assessments and the need for security of supply now lead to China building coal-fired power stations rather than more climate-friendly energy. This is serious, both for the world and for Norway. Norwegian climate and energy and technology, from sea wind to CO 2 capture and storage and modern hydrogen production, can make a major international difference. Foreign policy must support the recognition of such technology in the world and its preference in the world. Support for renewable energy deployment in developing countries must be given priority. I assume that there is something the government should take responsibility for, and that a pension fund that is forward-looking also looks in this direction. I don't think the government is delivering. The appropriations for climate and environmental action in the development budget were about 7 billion. kr in the top year 2013. Today, support for this type of action has dropped by 3 billion. kr. We need a strong escalation of Norwegian support for actions with double positive effects for both climate and development. Clean energy is an obvious example. We have a well-filled toolbox. The country needs a government that has the power to follow up signals and promises with concrete policies and economic efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e520	One hundred years after the Spanish disease hit 15 000 people in Norway, we have again been reminded of how vulnerable we are to viruses that can run wild. Once again, we have been reminded of the importance of international cooperation in order to prevent and reduce such a situation. It is of some interest that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in previous presentations, has addressed precisely this threat and what it can mean for Norwegian preparedness. Yesterday the alarm went off. It became a reality. Security policy is a main theme of the Foreign Minister’s presentation, and that is a good reason for it. Firstly, security policy is a very important part of foreign policy, and secondly, we are facing an unpredictable and unstable security policy situation, including in our neighbourhoods. We now see that thousands of refugees set the course for Europe's borders and that refugees are being used in a cynical game. If our allies in southern Europe are to have an understanding of the security policy challenges we face in Northern Europe, it is important that we also have an understanding of their challenges. I must remind you that Norway is one of the countries that has contributed most in the humanitarian effort in this area, by 10 billion. I'm going to increase by $1.7 billion. kr to next year. Never has Norway contributed so much to a single humanitarian aid operation, to say the same as the one related to the situation in Syria and the surrounding country. We are facing a global major activization. President Xi in China has also said it outright, that we are in a competitive situation between two different social systems. Last year it was 75 years since East Finland was released. This year, 100 years have passed since the Svalbard Treaty was concluded, giving Norway sovereignty over this group of islands. It is worth noting that on both of these occasions Russia has strategically used these two events to promote direct and indirect criticism of Norway. In connection with the anniversary of liberation, the Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov had a very critical chronicle on the press in the Evening Post where he criticized Norwegian security policy. And in connection with the anniversary of the Svalbard Treaty, there was a letter to the Norwegian authorities that they wanted to go to bilateral negotiations, among others. related to Norway’s regulation of helicopter traffic on Svalbard. Let it be said that Svalbard is as Norwegian mainland, and the Svalbard Treaty is internationally recognised and establishes Norwegian sovereignty over the island group. Norway and Russia have a common interest in peaceful cooperation in the north. In fact, Norway is the only neighbouring country with which Russia has not been at war, and Russia is also proud to be able to communicate. That being said, it is difficult to understand what is most deeply motivated by Russia in their many destabilization attempts against Europe and between countries in Europe, in order to weaken cohesion in Europe and weaken cohesion between European countries. There is a line in Norwegian Russian policy, and that line is clear: it is firmness and predictability, and it is deterrence and cooperation. Russia is and remains an Arctic state, unlike China, which defines itself as a near-arctic state, and which has even created its own Arctic strategy. China is a foreign bird in the Arctic. But when it's said: that time is also past that China is too far away and too little to be of little interest in Norwegian foreign policy. In this situation, where the major powers show increasing interest in the northern regions for various reasons, it is all the more important that we have the capacity for our own sovereignty, situation control and to maintain the transatlantic bond, and it is with pleasure that we note that the Atlantic command has now been restored and that the other fleet of the United States has been restored. This, in combination with strengthening our national defence, enables us to safeguard our sovereignty and our legitimate role in the north, defined by international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e535	It's not just the coronary virus that's contagious. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his very good and tidy statement, stated that, by country, we see a worrying decline in democracy, institutions and human rights, including in Europe, as in Poland and Hungary. What goes first when the leaders of a country eat up their own democracy from within is, as I see it, minority rights and courts. On 22 April, the Russians will vote on whether President Putin will be seated as long as he pleases. And while they're standing there at the urns, they're also going to vote on whether marriage between man and woman is the only thing that should apply. Poland has introduced LHBT-free zones. They have also built up their own jurisdiction so strongly that Norway has decided to abolish judicial cooperation. It's sad, but it's the only thing right, and it shows that Norway takes responsibility. The pressure on international cooperation has increased, and political polarisation characterises the development of several countries, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. We've seen this before. Ivan Iljin, President Putin's great source of inspiration, described the three characteristics of fascism in the 1930s: the praised will over reason and law, the promotion of a leader with a mysterious approach to the people, and he looked at globalisation as a conspiracy, over a arena to solve common problems. It seems to most of us as a warning, but to him it was a recipe. Before globalisation was criticised, it was in fear of workers' rights in the face of a more open economy. Now globalisation is being blamed for what some people call homodiology, i.e. fundamental human rights for homosexuals, women's liberation, and this morning I heard on the radio that President Trump thought the European Union was almost responsible for the Korona. In the 1920s, which is now, there was a fear that there is only one fit to rule, used as a catalyst in the transition from public vocabulary to political glare, from real elections to artificial democracy, from the rule of law to the culture of individuals. Putin himself spoke in the Duma and said that he believes and is convinced that there is only a strict vertical presidential rule in Russia that is possible and necessary. He justified it by ensuring economy and stability. There is parliamentary democracy, said Putin, but where we are now, it does not suit us. In 2010, Putin relied on Iljin as an authority to explain why Russia undermined the EU and invaded Ukraine. Iljin thought fascism was the policy of the future, and when he was put in exile, he became angry because fascism reached Italy before Russia. Democracy still loses support players – both among state leaders and among the population. Yascha Mounk is reproducing studies in his People Vs. Democracy that shows that Russia scores the highest in the number that believes democracy is a bad or a very bad way to rule a country. 26 pst. give it up. In 2011, one in six ‘millionaires’ in the United States said military government is a good way to rule a country. It's on the level with Yemen. It's no longer like that it's just those who want a fascist leader, who will vote restrictively. After the fall of the wall, we believed in the following: democracy, capitalism, globalisation, human rights, disarmament and an American-led world order. That's not quite the situation right now. States that use laws and constitution to deprive their own people of rights and freedoms to strengthen their own power are becoming more and more of them. It's nothing new to be concerned about this. By law the land shall be built, and not be destroyed, but in the saga of Naal. It was written around 1280. The Foreign Minister describes that she has close contact with the Russian authorities and follows developments closely, and that is good. But what more can Norway do to save real democracy and belief in it as a rule on our own continent? Are we using the action room enough? As a member of the Council of Europe delegation, I follow developments in Poland closely, and I am concerned that this is an inspiration. The EEA funds are there for the Polish people, the Council of Europe is there for Russians and citizens in countries where leaders are building up their human rights. I would like the statement to take more into account what we, as a neighbour of Russia and as an active human rights fighter, can do at a supranational level to fight for the democracies that are about to eat themselves from within in our own backyard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e560	We're dealing with two things at the same time today. It is the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement, on which I will concentrate first, and then I will make a statement which will also deal with international parliamentary assemblies. In this regard, I'm going to talk a little bit about the virus that infiltrates human rights, democracy development and rule of law, but it's going to be in the next post. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a broad and good review of the statement last week. It was a statement of the situation that we have in the world. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stated in that speech, we have our main participation in European cooperation through the EEA Agreement and Schengen, as well as maintaining close cooperation with our European partners on the issues of foreign and security policy. Dialogue isn't always enough. I would like to remind you that we are a member of EEA cooperation not because we want to help Europe in the first place, but because we need the agreement for our own part – community and business throughout Norway. In terms of trade, business and jobs around the districts, we depend on the access to the European market that we get through the EEA Agreement. It gives us access to a market for our goods, and it gives us access to supplies that we see in particular the effects of, and that are threatened and vulnerable, in the situation we are today. As I have stressed several times before, the EEA Agreement is a welfare subscription for Norway. It ensures a level playing field for a market of more than 500 million consumers. In these days, we also see the other side of European cooperation, namely the fact that the EU's external border is under strong pressure with the tense situation at the border between Greece and Turkey, and which partly also affects Romania. The situation that is taking place is the result of Turkey no longer complying with its part of the EU-Turkey Declaration on the Control of Irregular Migration. We are not in the European Union, but we share a destiny with Europe. As Commission President Ursula von der Leyen stated during his recent visit to the border with Turkey, Greece's shield is Europe's. It is a tragedy that innocent people on the run and in migration are put under pressure and in a very demanding, difficult and unbridled situation. Many of these innocent people come from Syria, but not all. Many get farther away, others come from areas that are not necessarily marked by war and conflict, but they are still in a difficult and unbridled situation. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs was quite clear in his statement: ‘The conversion of refugees and migrants into a policy means of pressurisation is not acceptable. Norway fully supports the EU in this matter. The EU and Schengen countries cannot give in to the political pressure.’ I hope we can all agree on this. This is a time when European cohesion is being tested. Fortunately, Norway is doing a part to help both migrants in Greece and refugees in the Syrian neighbourhoods. By the end of February Norway promised to pay 77 million. to the UN Cross-border Assistance Fund for Syria. This is the same amount as last year, which made us the fourth largest contributor to the fund in 2019. At the end of 2019, Norway fulfilled the promise given at the 2016 Syrian Conference to give 10 billion. kr over 4 years. Norway will and must be a significant donor to the Syria crisis even in the years to come. We have earlier experience, by 2015 at the latest, that what was our foreign policy is suddenly local politics. We now see that we are preparing for that situation by making sure that the reception centre is rigged to be prepared for such a situation. It's called preparedness, and it's called taking the international signals in the deepest seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e582	I refer to the annual report of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. One of the main tasks of this Committee, together with representatives of the European Parliament, is to ensure the proper functioning of the EEA Agreement. The annual reports always open with a sentence that the EEA Agreement is working well. And well, given the turmoil that is now in international trade policy, the conflict between the United States and China and the United States' undermining of the WTO dispute resolution system. The biggest challenge we have had in the EEA in recent years is the build-up of a large backlog of new legislation to be incorporated into the agreement. This is unfortunate, but after the EU has accepted that ESA should also have the role of monitoring body for financial supervision, it has fallen considerably. In the EFTA Committee, we have also followed the Brexit process closely, from the referendum in June 2016. We have met with the EU Chief Negotiator, Barnier, with former EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström and the new one, Phil Hogan, and with representatives from the United Kingdom. Before the UK signed the divorce agreement with the EU, there were forces in the UK Parliament that wanted them to return to EFTA and join the EEA. In the meetings we had in London, it was obvious that the knowledge of what the EEA Agreement involves was weak. For a country that wants to leave the EU to escape the common legislation, the EEA Agreement would be a poor agreement, to say the least, cautious. Given the need for agreement between EEA countries on the adoption of new legislation, such a situation could lead to a further erosion, not to say a breakthrough, of the EEA Agreement. It was therefore surprising to see that Prime Minister Erna Solberg, in interviews in British newspapers, welcomed the United Kingdom to the EFTA and EEA, while Mr Heidi Nordby Lunde, who is the Vice-Chairman of the EFTA Committee, and I myself, in strong and clear order, made it clear that they were not at all. Fortunately, this was a thought that was not won out in the British Parliament. Now is the last season of the brexit story. Negotiations on a trade agreement with the EU – and hopefully with us soon – are underway. It remains to be seen whether there will be agreement, but I think it makes sense to wash the dust of the preparations that are made so that we can stand without an agreement when the transition period is out of New Year's Eve. EFTA is 60 years old, and for Norway, EFTA has been an important instrument for economic integration and market access for the Norwegian export industry over those years. Over the past 25 years, our export industries have been boosting trade in important and growing markets through 29 trade agreements with 40 partners globally. Over these 60 years, exports have not only become an increasingly important part of the Norwegian economy, trade has also changed in content. Services and goods are interwoven. Less and less ‘layered here’ and ‘sold there’. Products are composed of many parts, produced many places. So it's developed global value chains. Then common standards are important, and today there is a drag on who should set the standard: are there EU standards? Is that the US standards, or is it China's? We have chosen to use EU standards through the EEA Agreement. That's a great value because that's where we have three-quarters of our exports. There is also a greater link between political ambitions and trade agreements than simply promoting trade. For the EFTA delegation of the United Kingdom, it has been important for EFTA to now include a modern and ambitious sustainability chapter and a chapter on employee rights in its trade agreements. This development poses challenges for our efforts to achieve trade agreements in new and emerging markets. We have e.g. negotiated for many years without reaching targets with India and Vietnam and other markets. When developments in the global trading landscape require more of us, it is worrying that last year the EFTA trade ministers decided to halve the number of ministerial meetings – from two to one per year. Skype and telephone calls cannot replace physical meetings between ministers. Of course, EFTA cooperation is more limited than EU cooperation in trade policy, but the more important it is that cooperation is fostered and developed to meet the new challenges of the trade policy landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e605	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e610	I refer you to the 2019 report of our Council of Europe delegation, and in particular to the section where it says: ‘Migration was still a central issue, focusing in particular on the precarious situation in the refugee camps in Greece and increasing violence against children on the run.’ The Minister for Foreign Affairs also said in his statement, which several others have fortunately also chosen to quote, that ‘making refugees and migrants into a political press means is not acceptable’. I totally agree with that, but that's what happens. The question is, what do we do with it, what can and will we do, and in what context? The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to Norway's support for the EU in this matter – that Turkey must comply with the EU-Turkey declaration of 2016, but what if they do not? Last Friday I attended a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Council of Europe where the first item on the agenda was an urgent debate on developments at the borders between Turkey, Greece and Bulgaria. Some key points from that debate showed, as it should be, that the focus of the Council of Europe was not primarily the question of securing the EU's external border, but the precarious human rights situation we are now seeing. The Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe has also stated that it is necessary to act quickly in order not to lose more lives. Furthermore, the debate was marked by quite steep fronts — between Greece and Turkey, but also between Greece and Turkey, on the one hand, and other European countries, on the other, countries that will only contribute financially, but not by accepting migrants and asylum seekers. The debate was summarised in a call from PACE President Rick Daems for all delegations to address the issue with their own foreign minister or government not only to make the division of responsibility in Europe a matter for the 28 EU Member States, but for all 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Membership of the Council of Europe commits, and it may be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given any thought to the role that our Human Rights Organisation should and can play in order to achieve a more solidarity of responsibility in Europe, in the situation we are now facing. For example, Michael Tetzschner was earlier concerned with the possibilities for a renegotiation of the Dublin agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e626	For the first time, the debate on foreign policy presentation and the annual reports of the Storting International Delegations are being brought together. There is an important and proper response to a broader basis for the foreign policy debate at a time when events and developments in the international arena are having a faster and greater impact on Norwegian policy and interests. The economic and geopolitical developments in Asia, the role of China in the region and the increased influence of global and Asian countries in multilateral fora, especially in climate issues, are of increasing importance to Norway. Norway’s emphasis on cooperation in Asia both as a sectoral dialogue partner in ASEAN with new trade agreements and new relations with China makes the Stortinget directly affected. The work of the international delegations supports the processes at the level of government. The relationship between Asia and Europe Parliamentary Forum with a total of 52 countries has been a springboard to build wider competences in Asia-related themes and a wider network of countries in Asia. In the last year, the Asia delegation has intensified efforts to establish closer relations with ASEAN countries, and we are now moving closer to the strategically important objective of observer status in the AIPA Parliamentary Assembly. Relations with these Asian countries are historically based, on shipping, trade and Norwegian involvement in peace and reconciliation processes, and now cover important political dialogue and common projects in the education, maritime and marine sectors and new green energy solutions. In addition, cooperation on UN sustainability objectives, common interests in the Arctic and management of marine resources will be provided. Countries as a whole are in fact Norway’s third largest trading partner in services and fourth largest in goods. It is a community of interests, but increasingly a community of values dealing with joint efforts to support international institutions and a regulated multilateral world order. An international trend is a strong link between trade policy, foreign policy interests and security policy. The distinctions are cleared out. Investment in infrastructure, trade in goods and services, etc. is increasingly being used as a political tool. Several cooperation countries in Asia are experiencing a spat, with their security anchoring in Western countries and the United States and increasing economic dependence on and political pressure from China. It can reinforce the global shift of power and bring consequences to Norway that we do not see in the past. Many in the debate have been concerned with the demanding security policy situation, increased infection pressure and coronary apathy — an image of increased global vulnerability. All of these are challenges we can only solve together. That is why parliamentary diplomacy and strengthened parliamentary ties to other countries are becoming increasingly important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e644	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a nice presentation. I'd say there's a lot we agree on. In particular, we agree on the importance of mandatory international cooperation. There are none of the major global challenges – absolutely none of them – that can be solved within the framework of one nation state alone, and of course we are talking about climate challenges, inequality challenges, human rights, but also pandemics. It is absolutely essential that we also coordinate measures, vaccine development and infection management, etc. internationally. In this perspective – and since this is actually going to be a debate – I want to challenge one of the previous speakers. It is in this perspective, the importance of international cooperation, a little alarming to listen to the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who completely obscures a kind of nationalism and protectionism, rejects international cooperation, argues for the closure of borders and refuses assistance. This is also linked to a statement by the Oslo Progress Party last weekend, where they called for Norway to be a patriotic lighthouse. Some people were whining in the hall when he took these reflections, but I believe that it is very wrong. I beg the Foreign Minister to be very listening to what Tybring-Gjedde says, and to take it very seriously, because it is precisely these kinds of attitudes and values that are on the rise in many countries in Europe. He has faith that, for example, the construction of a wall along the Norwegian border up to the atmosphere, including along the coast, to prevent climate change from hitting Norway. What makes this even more alarming is that in this pandemic, this kind of nationalist attitude in Europe will have a lot of ammunition. The pandemics are disturbing, and many of the measures will also be aimed at protecting the borders. That is why it is absolutely essential that, after this pandemic that will now be, we all call for the resumption of very active and committed international cooperation, so that the pandemic cannot become a new ammunition for a new kind of nationalism and the building up of the international organisations that we are so dependent on. I also ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs that she – perhaps something clearer than what she has done in this debate – speak more clearly about the forces represented by the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, so that we can understand more clearly what the Minister for Foreign Affairs stands for on precisely these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e653	Then to interparliamentary and international cooperation, and this time to the Council of Europe. 2019, on which the annual report is coined, represents the anniversary year: It is 70 years since the Council of Europe was established, in 1949. It was established after two world wars, out of ten countries, and Norway was one of the countries involved in the initiative. Today there are 47 countries, representing 830 million inhabitants. It's not about the concern of these countries' presidents, state councils, etc., it's about the individual human being, one of these 830 million, who in this way has someone who cares about human rights, democracy development and rule of law, and who gives each and every one of them about. 830 million inhabitants have the right and the opportunity to come to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. There are several viruses in circulation, there are several viruses on the way, and then I think in the transferred sense of the viruses that attack human rights, democratic development and the ordinary rule of law. Last week I heard about a central country in Europe where the authorities have recruited one of the most important traditional school books used in primary school — it has been used for many decades — because they had come under the impression that one of the authors was Jewish. Meetings in organisations and in political parties are conducted with concern and uncertainty in some of these Member States, and there is an indication of what the meetings contain and that they take place. The working conditions of journalists and freedom of the press and freedom of expression are under pressure. Those engaged in the important tasks of the fourth state power just lose their lives in order to uphold one of these more fundamental principles. Thus, in the wake of and in the aftermath of two world wars, the Council of Europe has been a peace project, and the Council of Europe has also been very central to the process of democracy that led to the fall of the Soviet Union. We have concluded conventions. We have monitoring of how the elections are conducted, and not everything is going well. We also have some pigs in the woods in Norway. It is about norm development, which is also one of the important things in the Council of Europe: how we treat children, how the relationship is with women, not accepted for sexualised violence, violence in close relationships. All of this is the development of norms that are important for human rights and democratic processes in the work of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e666	Mohammad Abd al-Kareem Hamayel was only 15 years old. He was shot in the head of Israeli military yesterday, in Stavanger's Palestinian town of friendship Nablus. He was there with large parts of the village saying to protest against the settlers and occupyers. Stavanger has a long history and close ties to Nablus. I spoke to one of my friends there today, and he expressed great sorrow at what has happened. It is unacceptable, and states that kill young people should be condemned for it. We see how the Palestinians are under pressure. We see President Donald Trump's so-called Middle East peace plan, which in no way is. It proposes that Israel retain the illegal settlements in occupied areas, which the UN Security Council has established are illegal and contrary to international law. They have annexed the Jordan Valley, where the Palestinians grow grain. The Palestinian people are under intense pressure. They need support. They need our support. Now is the time to raise the voice for a two-state solution, and I have also recorded that Minister of Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide has spoken out. I also want to add that the government should recognise Palestine as an independent state. It is the other country in our vicinity that has done. The Palestinian people need support. This injustice cannot continue. The plans that Trump has for the Middle East will help the Palestinians to be put back historically. They will be under such a harsh condition that it is not something we can sit still and watch. This is where action is needed. The Norwegian Government must show what values we have, who we want to support, and who we want to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e683	I would like to inform you about the work of the Stortinges Delegation to the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the European Parliamentary Assembly for 2019. The delegation this year has been composed of, besides myself, the head: Sivert Bjørnstad from the Party of Progress as Vice-Chairman, Åsmund Aukrust from the Workers' Party, Toril Eidsheim from the Right, Kari Henriksen from the Workers' Party and Abid Q. Raja from the Left. The main objectives of 2019 have been the UN Sustainable Development Goals, climate change, dialogue and confidence building measures, the fight against terrorism and for freedom of the press and human rights. In May, a Norwegian delegation invited the management of the OSCE PA and the Committee on Economics, Technology and the Environment to a study trip to Tromsø and Svalbard. The aim of the study was to learn more about the impacts of climate change and what this could mean for sustainable development opportunities. There is a link between climate change, sustainable development and security in Europe. The delegation member Torill Eidsheim was later appointed Special Representative of the OSCE PA on Arctic issues. In 2019, the Academy of Antiterrorism of the OSCE PA focused in particular on repatriated foreign fighters and on how these, and not least children of foreign warriors, can be returned and reintegrated, while defending radicalisation and extremism. In August, Delegation member Abid Q. Raja was appointed to chair this Adhoc Committee. In 2019, Norway was the highest ranked country on the press freedom index. During the main Luxembourg session, the Norwegian delegation invited to talk and discuss what is important in order to achieve a high position on this index and how freedom of the press, democracy and development are linked. Freedom of the press is very important for real democracy and to counteract propaganda, disinformation and false news. The delegation has also met several groups of human rights activists, often with LHBT focus. Member of Delegation Kari Henriksen is Vice-President of the OSCE PA, and she has led the short-term observers of the OSCE PA during the elections in Moldova and Uzbekistan. Kari Henriksen is a candidate for the president's office. She works hard, and I hope she gets strong support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e696	I want to follow up on what Huitfeldt's representative raised, namely the question of a consistent attitude towards different countries and regimes as regards human rights, international law, occupations, annexations, etc. A principle attitude is not at all principleal if it does not apply to all countries, whether it be western-oriented countries, close NATO allies or others. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also says this: ‘The rights of the people, including human rights, international humanitarian law and the humanitarian principles shall be the basis of all Norway does in the Security Council.’.» Yes, that's good, of course, but what does Norway do bilaterally, and what does Norway's available channels do today? That's the big question. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also says: ‘The human rights situation in Russia is very worrying. We will continue to address our concerns about the negative development of human rights with Russia." Of course, this is also entirely in agreement, and that is good, but what do we do with one of the world's worst countries in terms of human rights and women's rights: Saudi Arabia? What do we do with this via the United States channel? The Minister for Foreign Affairs says: «Participation of women is a third area in which Norway has special competence.» That's absolutely right, and that's great, but many people have thought of this: we can mention three movements and countries that have a lot in common: the Taliban, Iran and Saudi Arabia. The first two have a clear official position on human rights, the position of women, etc. We probably have this – verbally – also in the case of Saudi Arabia, safely at home in Norway. But what is Norway doing to Saudi Arabia, where it may have the most impact: meeting with the United States? Here we export on top of all the weapon equipment, Category B equipment. The same is true of our attitude toward Israel's occupation. That position is good outward, but the situation is even worse with this Trump solution, where the Palestinians are once again being let down. There are many outside the Storting with – at least some – and they're left with this feeling: where our alliance partner and big brother have friends, we're careful, but where the United States has enemies, we'd like to step up without provoking the United States. It is important to have this consistent position if it is to be credible. So what do we have? made through NATO, by pressure on Turkey, in the case of the offensive that is in Syria? The Foreign Minister mentions the role of Russia and Iran, and that is also quite correct, but we can use our channels through NATO to at least question the role of Turkey. And that's the call I want to make here. I don't think I'm gonna make it anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e729	The centre party and the right agree a lot on defence policy, but in terms of the view of PESCO, it seems that there is a disagreement. We must remember that NATO does not have its own military forces. NATO forces are the sum of the NATO military forces. The problem with NATO military capabilities is that they are hopelessly fragmented. Europe accounts for approx. 25 pst. by NATO military expenditure, but the impact is probably less than that. When efforts are being made to get NATO countries in Europe to take greater responsibility for their own security by increasing defence budgets, it is also very important to get more defence out of every penny of the defence budget. Let me give you an example: where Europe has 178 different weapons platforms, the United States has 30. Where Europe has 17 different types of tanks, the United States has one type. There is a great deal of defence to be gained from making defence systems in the European NATO countries more compatible. In fact, through the EEA Agreement, Norway is the only non-EU country to participate in the initial defence cooperation of the European Research Fund. That is good, also for the Norwegian arms industry. The need for enhanced Nordic defence cooperation has been mentioned, both by the Labour Party and the Left. Nordic defence cooperation is important, but it also has clear limits. It should be noted that Finland and Sweden are now approaching NATO as far as possible without being a NATO country. Both countries have concluded a host country aid agreement with the United States. During the Aurora exercise in South Sweden in 2017, 4 000 soldiers from the United States actually participated, and during the winter exercise in North Sweden last year, the entire Brigade North participated. Nordic defence cooperation is important, but we must not live on the illusion that it has the potential to be more than it really is. That is why Finland and Sweden are now so strongly oriented towards NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e740	I am aware that the representative Petter Eide wanted to invite you to a debate. He told me when we sat up there. That's okay, but Petter Eides -- what should I call it -- populism, left-wing populism, is hard to take seriously. The representative should listen to what I actually said, not what he might want me to say. I said we were going to conclude bilateral agreements, we were going to conclude multilateral agreements, we were going to give of our abundance. That's what I said. So, of course, I said a lot more. Among other things, I said: that we would not give of our abundance if it did not lead to growth and prosperity in those we are actually helping. Then we make things worse – then we give alcohol to an alcoholic, as I said. It's neither reasonable, merciful, kind or anything, it's the opposite, but that's what the representative Eide wants to do. The representative, Eide, is terribly happy in the United Nations. He is not so happy in the EU, but he is very happy in the UN, i.e. international cooperation globally. And the representative, Eide, probably thinks it's completely age-old that Venezuela and Iran are entering the UN Human Rights Council. I have not seen or experienced that the representative Eide has really committed himself to resisting it, which is one of the most – what I should say – fatal as the UN has done; they accept totalitarian states and put totalitarian states into the Human Rights Council, a Human Rights Council that actually criticizes Norway for violating human rights. Then it's the word "patriotism," which is obviously very, very difficult to accept. This is a word that has been completely normal to use in all other contexts, and that very many people use for daily purposes, but when it comes from the Advancement Party, it's a terrible thing. Then the representative put something more into it than the word actually says. Or maybe it's the word 'four tower' that the representative Eide doesn't like. I can change that word, and we're probably going to do that too, because the media have hung themselves up in this. In MSM, these terrible words «patriotism» and «four-door» have been attacked – chronicle after chronicle. But should the representative Eide actually have something relevant to contribute, e.g. meaning what he's actually saying, he should probably have removed the national boundaries. What are we going to do with these discriminatory national boundaries that separate the poor from the rich? Why don't we remove these limits and get people in? There are millions of people in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere living in totalitarian states who would love to come to Norway. And why should we just accept 1,000, 5,000, or 10,000? Can't we take $2 million? We can do that, can't we? Or does the representative Eide think that we should accept 5,000 and discriminate against the hundreds of millions that are not coming? Or does the representative Eide really believe that it will help Norway, or the country from which they come, if we take human resources from the countries they would actually be in and help develop? It's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e747	I would like to make a few comments on what has been an important topic in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Siv Mossleth was into a good deal of the important things that are being worked on there. But one theme that we've addressed several times, and that's been up for discussion, is that it's all about rewriting history. We see a strong emergence in Europe of an ideology that has as its foremost means of rewriting history. There are attempts to rewrite the history of the Second World War, especially in relation to national socialism and the persecution of Jews. It is about rewriting the history of equality, reproductive health, human rights, where the concepts and ideologies underlying these tools that the international community created through the international conventions and international agreements built on a common understanding of what human rights actually meant are in the process of being attacked and attempted to erode. Then I think it's incredibly important that we, as a state, with our state representatives, who are our people's foremost representatives and face-to-face, are the country that is only the first to assert reproductive rights. We must be the first country to mention violations of our human rights obligations, and we must be the country that builds democracy in other countries, and there we must be first. In the situation we are in the world and in Europe today, many countries look to Norway. So we have to turn the rotations up a little bit and be clear. I believe that the whole government apparatus must support an effort to address the attempt we see in Europe to rewrite these stories. It affects minorities in particular. It affects Jews. It affects Muslims, and it affects LHBTI people primarily in all these countries. Here I believe that Norway can speak with a higher voice, not only abroad and internationally, but also internally, so that we give clear signals to our own people about where Norway as a state stands when it comes to breaking these human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e754	The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e759	It was the representative Eide who inspired me. He said that Norway is not able to cope alone, and that international cooperation is crucial for the development of, among other things, climate, vaccines, migration, etc. I guess it's good to point out that if this is so important, then Norway is outside. The EU is the main driver of climate change work. Norway is not there. The EU is Europe's political cooperation forum. We are not there and therefore do not have the right to vote. The EU is an international rule, and Norway is completely outside. The Council of Europe is a meeting place in which countries meet to attend verbally. NATO has the military instruments. The EU has the economic instruments and sanctions. But on the main arena, the European Union, which is so important for everything that Eite refers to, we are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e765	Now this is becoming an interesting foreign policy debate. Now I see that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has gone, and that's really meant to him, but I can still say it to the rest. There is a fundamental ideological difference in understanding the world order between those who believe in binding international cooperation – that it should actually govern the world, precisely because the major challenges cannot be solved within the framework of the nation state alone – and those who believe that challenges affecting countries should be solved within one country alone. And that's where I think the Advance Party sits. They show through words and expressions and through opinions, etc. they want to place Norway in an area where Norway is going to do the best on its own. It may not reflect much through the right-left axis, but more clearly through the so-called GAL-TAN axis, where TAN stands for traditional, authoritarian and nationalist. And that's where the Progress Party has positioned itself, in companies with a number of parties in Europe. In this I am also challenged by my view of the UN. Well, it's just through the United Nations, which is perhaps the strongest actor in binding international agreements, although it's not that heavy a commitment. There are many countries in the United Nations that participate in the UN bodies that seriously violate human rights. Even our closest ally, the United States, does it, but by being a member of the United Nations, it is possible to hold them accountable. That's what's central. Then I was challenged by Ingerd Schou here at the SV's position on the EU. That is quite right: the SV is not dependent on Norway entering the EU. This does not mean that we disagree with strong European commitment cooperation, but there are elements in the European Union that make it tipped against us not wanting Norway to go in there. It's not a 100-0 assessment, but it might be a 60-40 assessment. These are elements of the European Union, for example: related to how Norwegian employment is affected, nor does it contribute to economic cohesion in Norway, which means that we do not want to support it. But that does not mean that we disagree with the principle of European cooperation. We wholeheartedly support this, particularly the work of the Council of Europe, in which I myself participate, and which I think is absolutely essential. But I think we have to remind ourselves that the big foreign policy debate in the world today, which is going to be also in the wake of this pandemic, will actually be linked to the difference between – I kept saying – the internationalists, those who believe in international cooperation and want to commit their country there, and those who want to solve these challenges within one country alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e776	I just felt the need to answer some questions from SV's representative Arne Nävra, because I think the representative has not followed up very well on what has happened in Norwegian foreign policy lately. He's asking what we're doing with Saudi Arabia. Well, what we're doing is we're taking human rights violations directly with the authorities of Saudi Arabia. I was in Saudi Arabia myself a little over two weeks ago. Most of the 3.5-hour meeting we had was about human rights, it was about the recommendations we made through the UN Human Rights Council, it was about the use of the death penalty, it was about the defence system, it was about the use of prisons by human rights activists and especially women activists. For us, it was very important to stress the line Norway has had for a very long time, namely that we are strongly critical of the violation of civil and political rights in Saudi Arabia. At the same time, there is a certain opening of cultural and social rights. It has to be recognised in itself, but it does not hide the fact that it is a tightening in other areas that are partly dramatic. The representative Arne Nävra obviously did not realize that Norway does not export arms and ammunition to Saudi Arabia – we have never done so – nor that we have issued new licences since 2018 for the export of B-materials or multi-use goods for military use to Saudi Arabia. So to the issue of the Israel–Palestine conflict: Norway has not only taken a clear role for many years, but we have also led the donor country group, AHLC. There we were supposed to have a new meeting on 1 April. There is now nothing for natural reasons, but of course we continue contact with the parties, as we have done, both to solve the practical questions and not least to facilitate a two-state solution in the future. Both parties are very clear that they want the Norwegian role, and they believe that the Norwegian role is useful. We want to carry it on, because we think it has a clear value. The clear Norwegian line, both after Trump's peace plan was launched, and to some extent other events, we have given both public and in this room. We are very clear on the need for and support for a two-state solution. We are also quite clear that Israeli settlements in the occupied territories are contrary to international law and that a two-state solution must be based on both the parameters of the Oslo Agreement and the UN Security Council resolutions. I have also warned very clearly against unilateral actions, or for example. annexation. So the representative asked us what we were doing with Turkey, and why we couldn't use NATO. Again, I think the representative has followed a little poorly, because the representative asks if we could not question Turkey's actions in Syria in NATO. So we have condemned Turkey's actions in Syria in NATO. We have also discussed this earlier in this Chamber, and that is a clear and clear message from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e789	When a delegation of parliamentarians from the EFTA countries visited South Korea last year, we tried to get a hearing to renegotiate our 2006 free trade agreement. Over the years, the agreement has been updated through changes in markets, new technologies, new goods and services not covered by the agreement. We met a lot of understanding from both officials and political levels, but as they said, they were more concerned about negotiating new agreements with new opportunities instead of renegotiating old ones. In front of us in the queue stood among others. The EU, the United States, Brazil, Argentina and the United Kingdom. The concept of a free trade agreement is perhaps one of the most misleading things I know. Global trade is regulated and fully dependent upon the winding-up of dispute mechanisms that lead to the right to power, as in the World Trade Organisation. To put it simply, a free trade agreement is like an Excel sheet where all of Norway's goods and services are listed in one column downwards, and all of South Korea's goods and services are in another, and then we negotiate line by line terms and quotas. That's why trade agreements are so complicated and take a long time to negotiate, but they're also dated over time. That's why I'm wondering what good alternatives those who want us to leave the EEA look bad. The EEA Agreement ensures that all Member States update laws and regulations simultaneously, thereby ensuring continuous, friction-free access to the world’s largest integrated market. Those who want to leave the EEA in order to negotiate a so-called better agreement must tell us who that agreement is better for, and in what way. For Norwegian export companies and Norwegian jobs throughout the country, continuous, friction-free access to our nearest market is dependent. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in the statement that by the start of the 2020s, global development concerns are greater than they were ten years ago. This is a kind of concern we have to take seriously. Everything is related to everything that a former prime minister said. It is not possible to close the boundaries, the doors and the door and hope that everything will be the same as before. If we do this, nothing will be like before. Economic growth and welfare development require trade and, in particular, trade. Putin destabilises in its neighbourhoods in the east, in a counter-intuitive foreign policy, in what is also our neighbourhoods. The President of the United States goes to a trade war with China, while weakening the foundation of the World Trade Organisation – and thus the mechanisms that support world trade. Is there one time in history where Norway should assess our membership of our nearest community of values and trade, it is now. I don't think anyone in this room will be surprised that I believe, of course, that instead of standing with one leg outside, we should both go with both legs into the European Community, the European Union. They also have room, now that the United Kingdom has left the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e802	I had to answer the Council of State, since she put some emphasis on what I had said from this pulpit. Of course, I am very closely involved in foreign policy. That's how SV and SF in their time were thought and formed. It was on that background. I have been with you since 1969, when I was quite young – I suppose I could have been 10–11 years old! My point is this: when it comes to taking part in foreign policy, unfortunately, there is not so much interest out there among people. I'm very sorry about that. It's probably largely due to a compact consensus among the big parties about the big lines. We're going to do what we can to lift that debate in important areas. In terms of consistency, there are a lot of those who follow foreign policy – that we have a principleal attitude, whether in the case of friends or enemies. That's what we need. What I have noticed – now I may have a selective circle – is that what is being said out loud, what is being communicated, is that we have a slightly different attitude to the so-called friends and enemies. I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State cannot refer from one-to-one talks with other foreign ministers or heads of state. I can understand that, but it's important to communicate what's being done. I know very well about the trip the Council of State has made to, among other things. Saudi Arabia. It's not that long ago. I saw what was done, and what was said from there was very good. But what was largely my point here, is that there's one country that Saudi Arabia is listening to, it's the United States. They're close together. We have access to the United States in a way, both bilaterally and in so far also through NATO cooperation. This is the track and the angle that many have called for, at least among those who come along with it, who have a little critical vision and can shed a critical light on Norwegian foreign policy. When is the weapon being used, I was about to say -- the entrance through the United States? The same is true in so far as the Israel conflict is concerned. It's absolutely vital to use the U.S. track. They're the ones who kind of govern a lot of what's happening in Israel. I guess no one's sitting here in the hall who doesn't get it. That's it. This can be seen, among other things: on how the weapon is sold here and there, and on how the oil is sold here and there. It's a close link. Among other things, we see: that the expenditure on defence per capita is highest in the countries with which the United States has close contact. It is they themselves, it is Saudi Arabia, and it is another country that is very close, but it must be. In the case of arms exports of category B weapons: if I spoke at present, it is wrong. It was supposed to be in the past, it's called preteritum. We've done it all the way to the last one, on top of it all. That's how I should say it. So what the Council of State said is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e817	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e834	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e841	I think it is an exciting day and – what to say – a marking of the end of a long journey when we can now consider proposals for the law on good trade in the food chain. It started a few years back, when in 2011 we received an investigation entitled ‘Food, Power and Power — About the Strength of the Value Chain for Food’. The conclusions at that time were very clear in the need to create a framework for the groceries sector and the negotiations and power concentrations that were there. So maybe the sample met at the time some discussion, but I mean the summary at the time was very clear that there was a need to put in place a law. Finally, a legislative committee was set up, and we got a new public investigation, the so-called Food Law Committee, which in 2013 very clearly concluded that there was a need to introduce a law on good trade practices and the establishment of a trade supervision to supervise and enforce that law. Despite two really very clear public investigations, there was quite strong political opposition to introducing such a law. There were also very strong internal disagreements in the industry – actually a little admirable, exactly that, because there is no doubt that the groceries sector affects us so to speak daily. It has a turnover of over 200 billion. kr. So we do ordinary groceries for over half a billion dollars a day, so it's pretty important. The case has been there since 2011. Then we got a new government, and the government decided to put it in a drawer. So the discussion matured somewhat over the years, and there came a proposal from the Workers' Party where we asked the government to present a new proposal for the law on good trade practices and with its own supervision. There was unanimous agreement in Stortinget, and I am very pleased about that. The government has submitted a proposal and, in my opinion, also fulfilled what was the Stortinget order in the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party. So I'm very happy that there's an overall committee that's behind the position we now have. There are only minor differences, but the objective is very clear, namely that the law should contribute to the efficient use of society's resources and the interests of consumers by promoting fairness, predictability and loyalty. There is no revolution in what lies there, but one change has been made, and there is «delisting» and denunciations. We believe that this should be justified when performing a «delisting». Otherwise, I am very pleased with both the legislative proposal and the position as it now stands – unanimously from the Committee. I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e856	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e861	Today's law passed is, as we heard, the result of what might have to be called quite a long pregnancy, so let's hope now it won't be a long birth. The law of good trade is a law that the Right was initially against, so we were long skeptical, but I am pleased that we now, when we are there today, are also in the Right satisfied with the adoption of this law. Originally, we thought that it shouldn't be necessary, that trade is somewhat like folk, which should be assumed that most people have, but both concrete reports, direct feedback and quite incredible stories have shown that the trade order actually needs regulation. It is shown, among others: to a culture of fear, that it is problematic to address what is perceived as being wrong, because the competitor is at the same time an important customer, and there is a lack of respect for intellectual property rights. All of this shows that there is a need for both law and supervision. The right has long been a driver of increased competition in the daily food sector. Competition supervision has gained more resources and a clearer marshalling ground. It is working on its own wholesale communication on retail trade, and there is a clear expectation from this room for measures to further improve competition. Ultimately, it is about increasing the diversity of the consumer — and at the right price. There are clear indications that the competitive situation remains dysfunctional and that further action needs to be taken. The right has noticed that particular reference is made to the distribution stage and looks forward to the address of the next message. Right is naturally skeptical of intervention in markets, but it is poor right-wing policy to sit still and look at a market that is not functioning because of the behaviour of one or more actors. Today's law is one of several steps on the way to a more well-functioning market. The principles of good commercial conduct shall be fairness, predictability and loyalty. It seems strange to have to legislate, but it is up to us to do so when actors do not follow these principles as they should. It is also worrying that we now have to legislate, as we do in Section 10, that no party must use words or actions that can cause serious fear, for example. threats of represals or dissemination of false information, but this is a paragraph that addresses feedback about a culture of fear in the industry. It is important that newly created supervision acquires the necessary competence to enter this complex area. Many of the actors are very professional and have great resources to defend their position, be it right or crazy. Now the supervision is provided with the necessary tools and, therefore, must be ensured at the same time as the appropriate competence. It is a legitimate hope that this law, together with the measures already taken and in combination with the forthcoming Single European Act, will lead to an improved competitive situation that benefits the various actors and consumers. Fair competition will give us the diversity and the prices we deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e876	First I have to say that the Progress Party has thought that this law was unnecessary, and we believe that it has been the most to clarify already existing laws and regulations. We are afraid that the law will create more bureaucracy, especially for small businesses. We also don't want a further cementation of an already dysfunctional food system. We believe that there needs to be a fundamental reform of the system that has created conditions in the daily food industry, such as: is characterised by an approximate monopoly situation. We look forward to having a deeper debate on the competitive situation in the context of the announced communication on the daily food industry. That being said, we're actually satisfied that we're getting a food system that's independent. We support the proposal that supervision should produce an annual report. It will be useful to get an insight into the state of the groceries market over time. The requirements of good trading practice are, to the best of our ability, those that dominate the market, but we must also think about the small ones. Many have lived well with informal agreements on the sale of honey jars at the local gas station, as Reke told us in the hearing of the nutrition committee. Requirements for written agreements in these cases are highly detailed, especially as there is no gap between the small actors in the challenge. You can always say that a form from or to do not mean that much, but my attitude is that the public should have very good reasons to impose claims like this. Small businesses already have more than enough paperwork and bureaucracy to deal with. Therefore, the law should be confined to larger agreements. The Progress Party therefore considers that the law on good trade practices should be limited so that it does not apply to agreements with an overall economic low value. We believe that the tax rate limit for registering in the VAT register is a reasonable limit on the amount for which the law applies. This means that a supplier can conclude contracts that together are worth NOK 50000, without having to comply with the requirements of this law. This will make it a little less bureaucratic. Another problem in the daily food industry is ‘delisting’. The fact that a food chain withdraws goods from a range during the year has been used as a pressurised agent or as part of negotiations between the food chain and the supplier. This is not okay. Consumers' interests should be focused, not negotiated-tactical objectives. Therefore, ‘delisting’ shall be justified on the basis of commercial circumstances, such as: that a good does not sell as expected. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the Committee’s nomination for ‘delisting’ to require a factual reason and to state in writing the reasons for which a Contracting Party so requires. Thus, it is still allowed to ‘delist’ outside the annual negotiations, but ‘delisting’ must be at the best of consumers and not of chains.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e889	Would the representative like to comment on the proposal of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e894	Yeah, that would be an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e899	Then the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e904	The power concentration in the food value chain is a matter that has long been involved in the Centre Party. Now we finally have this law of decision in Stortinget. It's said that it's been a long pregnancy, and then we'll have to practice putting the father to the right person, and it's probably best to say that it's Lars Peder Breck, who was the Minister of Agriculture in the Red-Green Government, who's promised to be a father. But many people have done an important job in the way of never giving up and raising this matter. There is no doubt that the Norway Group, Rema 1000 and Coop have power over it, and over the turnover of food, which requires regulation. This promise will not solve everything, but it will be an important contribution to getting started, and it is a pretty clear signal that the Storting is willing to use political instruments. There's also a sign, I'll say, that there's more to it than that. There's got to be a big message about this. There'll probably be a need for additional tools here to get a smoother distribution of power in some of the most central value chain and social system we have, that's the value chain for food. With that, I take up the proposal that the Central Party and SV have in the setting, which is not recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e913	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e919	The starting point, as many have mentioned here, is the 2011 Mat Chain Selection. One of the most important findings they had was the concentration of power and how it works. As they pointed out, the large food chain operators use their position to push suppliers, create dependency relationships, camouflage their own margins through cross pricing, and ultimately drive strategic pricing and the supply of their own goods. It led to perhaps the most important proposal for which there are not multiples in the configuration, and it is a requirement for ownership delimitation. It would be an upper roof on how much part of the market an actor can have, a very effective and also very well-developed way to control this field, as we in SV suggest, and we are the only ones who suggest it in the setting as well. Furthermore, the possibilities for smaller operators, small-scale producers, to access the shelves of the chains are very limited. There is also something that was pointed out by the Food Chain Selection. Increasing access to products from small-scale producers is another proposal, which we agree with the Centre Party on. Collectively, both putting a roof on ownership and increasing access for small-scale producers will both be in line with the other objectives we have in the larger food field, our agricultural policy, that is, we make available and have higher value creation around society by allowing small producers to sell their products, which they only have to a limited degree today. I want to encourage the Progress Party in particular to look at the proposals I put forward here just now that small businesses need to be given opportunities. These are the larger proposals that give small businesses a great deal of opportunity. The last proposal, which the whole opposition is behind – that is, I am not the Progress Party, but the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV – is the proposal for franchise. The franchise model is a very beneficial way to organise businesses, but at the same time undermines the Norwegian model. It is time for them to be treated in the same way as for others to organize themselves in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e934	Does the representative wish to address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e939	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e944	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e949	As a liberal party, the Left considers free competition to be absolutely essential to promote value creation and innovation and to counteract power concentration in the daily food industry. The competitive situation in the groceries market has received considerable attention in recent years. A number of investigations have been carried out to improve competition. Competition conditions are demanding and highly concentrated throughout the value chain for food in Norway. There are few major players, both at the distribution and retail stages. This has led to the development of bad business practices in the industry over time, where few actors have enormous concentration of power. Therefore, there is a need for more orderly conditions in the daily food industry, and there is a strong consensus across the partitioning lines that a law of good trading practice has come into play. The industry also welcomes this. The law regulates important issues such as information requirements, protection of the parties’ investments, requirements for written agreements, liability for disappearances and customer complaints, regulation of ‘delisting’ and termination, protection against imitations and prohibition of threats. In addition, the law shall facilitate effective negotiations and contracts between food suppliers and chains in order to contribute to the socio-economic efficiency of solutions. The surplus may then be passed on to consumers through competition between the food chains. Business as well as the consumer benefit from the law’s introduction. A daily food surveillance system is established to provide guidance and information on the daily food industry and to ensure compliance with the law. Like a liberal party, Left is an open party. The legislative proposal will contribute to more transparency in the daily food industry and thus be the first step towards ensuring more competition. This doesn't solve everything, but it's an important step in the right direction. During the spring, there will be a major communication on the daily food industry to take a closer look at the competitive situation in the industry. In this respect, the impact of the distribution stage on the competitive situation will be important. The left is engaged in healthy competition. Unfortunately, we do not have that in the industry today. The left has always been the party for small and medium-sized enterprises because many small players are important for the spread of power in society. It is in our interest not to impose unnecessary red tape on small operators while they need to be secured. It is therefore a good solution to offer standard contracts for small operators, as proposed by the Committee as a whole. Then we are open in the Left to make assessments of the need for adjustments in consultation with the small actors if it does not work optimally. The left considers that consumer welfare requires a well-functioning market based on supply and demand. Consumers deserve access to the products they want and are regulated by the listing of products in the retail range in the chains. It is important that the choice of ‘delisting’ of products be made on the premises of consumers. These chains have a strong influence on consumer access to desired goods and responsibility for following up and meeting consumer demand. The Left therefore considers it positive that the Committee considers that «delisting» should be based on objective and commercial considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e966	It is a special day when the Storting will adopt the law of good trading practice today, and it is gratifying that there is a broad consensus on the main points of the law. There have been some rounds of law on good trade in recent years, on which the case-rapporteur was involved. During the last period, the Christian People's Party supported strengthening existing competition law in an attempt to address the problems in the food sector, but it did not have the desired effect. The daily food chains have decreased, the chains have increased, and the market has now been reduced to three such large chains. The share of own brands has increased and has moved towards an approximate monopoly on distribution. The bargaining position of suppliers has gradually been reduced in favour of the chains. This is going to lose everyone. Studies have also shown that different kinds of bad business practices have developed over time in the daily food industry. The daily food market is a large and lucrative market, and we rely on well-functioning competition for the benefit of both suppliers, food chains and, of course, consumers. The Christian People's Party therefore believed in the spring of 2018 that the time had come to brush dust from the proposal for a law on good trade practices that was first addressed in NOU 2013: 6, on good trade practices in the food chain. For the Christian People's Party, it was then important to work for a broad majority in the committee, and we received it on 28 May 2018, when a joint committee agreed to ask the government to submit proposals on the law on good trade practices. Many should have boasted, but in our opinion, the case rapporteur on the then case, Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, deserves a special reward for the job of bringing together the Committee on a joint order for the government in the spring of 2018. The legislative proposal is a major step in the right direction, even if it does not resolve all the issues that have been discussed in connection with the food chain. The proposal can contribute to more transparency in the daily food industry and thus constitute an important first step in ensuring more competition. Nevertheless, there are still concerns related to lack of competition at the distribution level. Both the 2013 NOU: 6 and the 2017-46 Oslo Economics report pointed out that access to distribution on equal terms has a major impact on the competitive situation. There are currently limited possibilities to choose between different distribution solutions other than the separate solutions of the chains. The solutions agreed for distribution must be effective, and this also requires competition at the distribution level. The government has announced that during the spring of 2020 it will promote a wholesale notification targeted at competition in the food market. We look forward to it and expect concrete measures in the communication to ensure a more balanced power and a greater diversity of actors in the food and groceries value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e981	The legislative proposal under consideration today is based on the recommendations of the 2013 Annual Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has received many input from several actors in the process. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Business Committee for both engaged and constructive input into the matter. The daily food industry has a challenging competitive situation, with few actors and significant barriers to establishment. At the same time, there is an unfortunate business culture in parts of the industry. These challenges cannot be solved in one law. The aim of the legislative proposal is to reduce the level of conflicts in the daily food industry by ensuring clearer negotiations and more predictable agreements between food suppliers and chains. Close negotiations in which the chains put pressure on suppliers are important for both innovation and lower prices, both of which benefit consumers. At the same time, negotiations must be based on honesty, predictability and loyalty. At the same time, the law regulates important issues such as information requirements, the protection of the parties' investments, the requirements for written agreements, the liability for disappearance and customer complaints, the regulation of «delisting» and termination, the protection against imitations and the prohibition of threats. These are important principles for all operators in the industry. Small suppliers need protection at least as much as the large ones. I therefore believe that there should be no specific rules for small contracts. If it turns out that the law fails for small suppliers, we will of course consider changing it. One of the success criteria of the new law is to ensure good and effective enforcement. We therefore establish a daily food monitoring system to enforce the law. They shall give priority to guidance and information work on enterprises. If this does not work quickly and effectively, stronger instruments can be used. We are in the process of preparing the establishment of this oversight. We need clearer conditions in the daily food industry. I am looking forward to the new Daily Food Safety Authority starting its important task of promoting honesty, predictability and loyalty in this industry. The government's commitment does not stop here. We are now working, as has been said by several representatives earlier in the debate, with a big message about the competitive situation in the groceries market. The law and this large-scale communication could together have a major impact on the conditions in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1003	In the nomination, there is a committee comment which is very clear that one believes that the daily food monitoring should provide annual reports and that these should be provided in an appropriate manner. It is also very clear that there is a desire for public reports to have observations on what is going on in the food market and the measures taken by supervision. My question is very simple: Will the Council of State ensure that daily food monitoring produces annual reports that contain both interesting information for policy discussions and assessments and very clear follow-up to challenges in the food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1010	The concrete questions about how the new supervision will work and work must be addressed gradually. Right now, we're in the process of getting this surveillance in place. That's the problem we're facing in the first round -- get it in place, get it up. The ministry has, of course, taken note of the comments made by the committee, but I am not prepared to say specifically now how this supervision will work, because that is what we are working on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1015	I assume that the Council of State will follow up what is the majority of the Stortinget's very clear intention that we get reports presented to us, and then we will – let's say – develop them as the experience is gained in connection with the work that the Daily Food Safety Authority is going to do. Another theme addressed in this treatment is the relationship with consumers and this with their own brands. A minority believe it is natural to be confirmed where these goods are produced. That is essential consumer information. But this proposal will therefore be put to the vote by the majority. Will the Council of State take the initiative to have a direction to indicate that the chain's own brands are marked with a place of manufacture?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1023	The topic that the representative addresses is an interesting one in itself, but I don't think it belongs in this law as it exists now. At the same time, it is a topic that is becoming more and more topical as consumers also become more aware and want this information. Today, however, there is nothing wrong with them choosing it themselves, and on a voluntary basis, the products are marked with a country or place of origin. At an overall level, food labelling requirements are regulated by the EU Food Information Regulation, and that is what we are dealing with. If we are to have other provisions relating to the labelling of food, it is the Ministry of Health and Welfare that is primarily responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1030	I accept what the Council of State says, but there's a little explanation in the answer, too, because it should be a clear interest for the Minister of Industry to put a frame around this with their own brands. We know that the chains do not deliberately disclose everything on the packaging, because they must protect their own brands – which may initially be completely identical to a product that comes from a brand supplier, for example. It is of particular interest to know the exact place of production. Then I'm a little surprised that the Left and the Council of State – and the majority, to the extent – are taking the chains more than the consumer's party on such an important issue. Is there really any good reason not to impose a requirement to have a place of manufacture as a clear marking on own brands?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1035	As I said, it is of course possible for the actors themselves to label the products if they want to, and if there is also an expectation from the consumers that they want to satisfy. At the same time, as I said in my previous answer, I am concerned that this issue is regulated by the EU regulation. It also gives us, as consumers, harmonised provisions on food information. It is not that it is not a system for this, it is a unified system that also ensures that we as consumers are consistent information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1040	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1045	Access to safe top-quality food is important for all of us – it is important for our whole society. Trade in the food industry and, in particular, the concentration of power in Norway is a field that concerns us all. That is why this is a cause for rejoicing. It's a first step towards improving the ability that people have to get us the groceries and groceries we want. There are many who are disappointed when they see that the product, the product they want, demand and have been happy about, is suddenly removed from the shelf. Similarly, producers who have done long-term hard work experience that the basis for that effort is suddenly removed when the product is removed. It has been well clarified here that this bill that Stortinget is now going to deal with and, with all probability, adopt, does not solve all the problems, but that is the first, important step. Because the step we are taking today, our democracy in Norway now shows that the daily food industry and the power situation there is a field that we are going to work together with politically, for which it is important that we have the necessary rules and not least wise and sensible laws. So it's absolutely certain that this is a field that we're going to work a lot more on, and then it's just the limited possibilities many producers have to choose distribution, which becomes one of the central questions of the time that comes. It's a good day, a good first step – continuation follows.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1066	Thank you for allowing me to say a few words on the tap in the extension of the cord shift that was. Firstly, getting good reports on the daily food sector is important. It is important for the development of the sector. This is important for consumers. And that is important for us politicians to be able to make the right decisions. So I hope the council follows it up. So it's this one with its own brands. I am amazed that the majority does not endorse it. Why should there be a basis for protecting, whether REMA or the Norway Group, from placing production sites on the food products, which are essential in the food sector, for example. on the packaging? I am fully aware that we have EU regulations, etc. Which we're dealing with, but there's nothing wrong with us setting it as a requirement, an independent national requirement, in relation to our own brands. Because it is just in the development of own brands that one is getting – let's say – challenging competition with the established trademarks in our food sector. If it's from Tine or from the Q-Meierien or whatever it is, we don't know anything about it. I don't understand that the majority chooses to protect the chains rather than protect or inform consumers, I'm amazed at that. But apart from that, I'm very happy and perhaps also amazed that the great majority have turned around and now is for a law of good trade. I'm very happy about that. Finally, the Labour Party will be able to vote in favour of the proposal on small-scale producers, proposal No. 3, from SV and the Center Party, so there is no doubt that we would like to welcome the small-scale producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1077	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1094	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1100	Case No. 5 is suspended. The map has thus been debated for today. The store is taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1123	Before the Storting goes to voting on today's map, the President will, in the light of the situation that has now arisen, propose some changes to the proceedings and proceedings of the Storting and the Committees. In order to limit the risk of the spread of infection in the current situation, the President will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 79, propose to depart from the Rules of Procedure of the Storting so that the Committees may meet and take decisions without having to meet physically. It is therefore proposed that the following Decision: ‘With effect from 12 March 2020 and until further notice, the requirement for physical presence in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting Section 25 on committee meetings and Section 26 on voting in the committees shall be put into effect.’; Is there anyone who has any objection to that? That is not the case, and the proposal has been unanimously adopted. The Presidency will send a letter to the Committees informing them of the decision and guidance on the understanding of the provisions. Furthermore, the President will state that the Presidency, in cooperation with the parliamentary leaders, will make changes to the Storting meeting programme in the coming weeks, with fewer plenary sessions, and that the handling of matters will be somewhat compressed. Details of this will be provided. The Stortinget is then ready to go to voting on amended agenda No. 59.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1148	The President will propose that the Foreign Affairs Minister’s statement at the Stortings meeting on 5 March 2020 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1179	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 5, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is requesting that the store’s own brands be marked with the place of manufacture.’ [[EMV]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for amending the Labour Environment Act which clarifies the responsibilities of employers in franchises, groups and similar organisations. The proposal shall ensure that the person who has a dominant influence, and through this is actually the employer, also receives rights and obligations as an employer under the Employment Environment Act.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1218	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how to increase access to products from small-scale producers in the Norwegian groceries market and come back to Stortinget with a case.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1228	President! The Labour Party will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1233	Then the Workers' Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1245	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to issue a separate law on ownership restrictions in the retail trade. The investigation should assess an upper ceiling on acquisitions and acquisition-type agreements for operators with significant ownership.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1499	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: The law does not apply in the case of contracts below a total economic value per supplier equal to the limit fixed at any time by the tax administration for which the trader must register in the VAT register, unless one of the parties to the contract so requires.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1516	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1527	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1890	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1900	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 5 is postponed to a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-12.ana.ud474e1930	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
