ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e65	Since this is the first day of the meeting of the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the government, all the employees and all the others who have their functions in connection with the Storting, a really good new year. The representatives of Nicholas Wilkinson, Runar Seestad and Ingarill Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Hedmark: Per Martin Sandtrøen For More and Romesdal: Anders Riise For Oslo: Yassine Arakia For Telemark: Olav Urbø For Vestfold: Renate Silver Berge An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Martin Kolberg from 7 January onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the Vara of Buskerud, Anne Sandum, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e128	Anne Sandum is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e139	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e144	Thank you for the good wishes for the new year. It's good to be going on again. On behalf of Bengt Fasteraune, Geir Pollestad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Sigbjørn Gülsvik and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the Norwegian plant industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e151	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will ask the representatives to sit on case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e169	A temporary fourth vice-president shall be chosen for the period Nils T. Bjørke has leave, i.e. from 14 January to 3 April. In this context, the President refers to the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8 of the Rules of Procedure. The President requests a proposal for a temporary fourth Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e178	: I am delighted to propose Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e183	Heidi Greni has been proposed as temporary fourth vice-president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Greni is unanimously elected as temporary fourth vice-president for the period Nils T. Bjørke has leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e199	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good and effective cooperation in this matter. The Committee points out that the Norwegian electoral system is a new high legitimacy in the population and works well. All three proposals to amend Section 57 of the Constitution deal in whole or in part with the number of electoral districts. The Committee points out that the main motivation behind the division of the country into electoral districts is to secure representation from all over the country and to facilitate closeness between the voters and the representatives. By dividing the country into many electoral districts, a representation from different parts of the country is ensured by the electoral system itself. The size of the electoral districts has much to say about the proximity between the voters and the representatives and strengthens the confidence of the entire political system. The Committee would point out that the division into electoral districts is a fundamental issue for which it is important to make a thorough assessment before considering making any changes. The Governing Board, which was appointed by the Electoral Committee on 21 June 2017. The selection shall propose a new electoral law and evaluate changes to the electoral system. Selection will be rendered on a large roll before the department sends proposals for changes in the election laws to Stortinget. In order to ensure that the Norwegian electoral system also has legitimacy in the future, it is crucial in such key issues as the principle of the electoral system to facilitate an open process. The Committee will demonstrate that the Stortinget has made it clear that the current electoral district will apply to the 2021 Grand Prix. While we're waiting for the election deadline, the department thought it was best to implement the 2021 downhill deposit option with 19 electoral districts. The size joined the department’s assessment, and proposals for changes were agreed on 29 May 2018. The Electoral Committee is in the process of doing its work. The selection mode was expected in the first half of 2020. Following the mandate of the selection, a specific number of electoral districts shall be considered. In order to ensure a good process – and respect for the work of the electoral selection – the Committee suggests that the three proposals to amend Section 57 of the Constitution are not adopted. The Labour Party has a minority proposal when it comes to the electoral district of Trøndelag, and I expect them to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e218	As the rapporteur explained in detail, we are dealing with three basic legislative proposals in this section, all of which are concerned with the electoral districts. I share the rapporteur's main arrangements in this matter, and it is important that there are several proposals that should be examined in greater detail, since we are also waiting for the outcome of the electoral committee. Now it's like our country has got a number of new counties, and it's going to be natural for the electoral districts to follow that division. Then it is important to clarify that the new county division has created a major debate, not least in view of the size of individual counties. And it's a concern to take into account that with such large counties, the distance between the voters and the representatives can increase. It is also important to take into account that we cannot rule out changes in the state of the future due to the high level of conflict we have seen. Forcing counties has been a germ for a big discussion. It would therefore be wise, from the viewpoint of the Workers' Party, to await the electoral commission on possible changes before we change the division of electoral districts, but with one exception. There is one state in the country that has wanted to join forces, and that's Trondelag. We believe that in Trøndelag, it could be allowed to decide that there was one electoral district and that we could have reduced the total number of electoral districts from 19 to 18. We therefore believe that the draft constitution of representatives Martin Kolberg, Trond Giske and Ingvild Kjerkol to amend Section 57 should be accepted. It's a big wish from many in Trøndelag. It's a state that's voluntarily joined together, and that acts as one state. We note that today's proposal will not be accepted, and that Trondelag must wait to become a new electoral district. We think that's a shame, but that's the way it is. With that, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e229	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e234	In this case, we are discussing a number of different constitutional changes to adapt electoral arrangements and constituencies now that we get fewer states. One of the proposals was submitted by one of the SV's representatives during the previous period. SV is, as you know, against the coercion of the regional reform initially. because we think it centralizes power and decisions away from those they apply. My own home country, Eastfold, which from the turn of the year has become a part of the Viking, is a very clear example of it – a construction of a size that is not natural, and which will make it very far to the voters who have elected me to the Grand Ring, in view of being able to be in contact and represented in the county that is now set. More and more have agreed – there have been major debates on this. That's why we now see that the majority of the county councils both in my own Gulf and in Troms and Finnmark have concluded political agreements to apply for the dissolution of the coercion if there is a new multiplicity after 2021. This is something I support to this extent, and it is also one of the main reasons in this case that I recommend to the SV's group not to accept any of the proposals in the case now. When we know that at least some of the coercive states might want to cancel the mergers, it's not wise to adopt changes right now. In addition, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur, the Electoral Commission will carry out a comprehensive review of the entire electoral system and the entire electoral system on 31 May 2020. We want to wait for it before we go into the actual matter. It's also good to stress from our side that it might make sense that the constituencies are gradually following new, changed states. There has not been an SV conclusion when we have discussed this matter; we have only concluded that this is not the time to make changes. The time ahead can show that it is also natural for SV to have individual states become one new choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e247	There is no need to withdraw this debate – just a few feedback from the Right too. I agree with what the rapporteur summarised and said. But I want to make it clear that when we go against today, it's not necessarily because some of these proposals are so bad. When they were promoted, it was not unnatural that they were promoted, but now the electoral commission has to work on how to organise this in the future. It's true, as Eva Kristin Hansen said, that Trondelag went into this voluntary. It also did so, even though in time it coincides with the others. I think it's important that one gives both the electoral commission and ourselves the opportunity to think freely about whether it's the county boundaries, as they're now drawn, which is going to be the electoral district, whether it's the old ones, and whether they're going to be smaller or larger. That, I think, is to take seriously, just as the rapporteur said, the ability of the people to influence the composition. That is why it is important for us that the Electoral Commission has done its job, and that we get a thorough discussion on the basis of it before we decide on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e252	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e269	This draft constitution, proposed by Per Olaf Lundtägen and Helge Thorheim, is subject to the amendment of the fifth paragraph of Paragraph 57 of the Constitution, and the purpose of the proposal is to include only Norwegian citizens in the distribution of their mandates to the Stortinget. Paragraph 57 of the Constitution today states that the allocation of the mandate between the different electoral districts is to be made every eight years and that the number of inhabitants and the area in the county are to form the basis for the distribution of mandates. According to Constitutional Law, only Norwegian citizens can be elected as deposit representatives, and only Norwegian citizens can vote in rollover elections. However, when calculating the distribution of mandates to the UK, foreign citizens registered as resident in the country are also included in the calculation basis. The proposers believe it is in principle crazy that people without the right to vote in the event of a roll call vote affect the distribution of mandates between the electoral districts only by being resident in the country. The proposers believe that this is a democratic unfortunate consequence in the Constitution that should be corrected, regardless of the view that it will result in the distribution of mandates, and therefore they suggest that Section 57 is amended, so that foreign citizens should not be taken into account in the distribution of mandates to the Stortinget. The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party and independent representative Ulf Leirstein, do not support the Constitutional proposal. The majority think that our representative democracy means that the Stortinget should represent all the actual inhabitants of the country, and not just Norwegian citizens or those who have voting rights. The majority will therefore reject the draft constitution, as was also done when the issue was addressed in 2016. It was then just emphasised from the point of view of the majority that our representative democracy meant that the Stortinget should represent all citizens, and not just Norwegian citizens, only those with the right to vote or those who had the right to vote. I assume that representatives of the proposers will justify the amendment proposed in Section 57 of the Constitution, but will show that the Centre Party and SV have also submitted their own comments through the committee's management of the case. The Labour Party and I support the plural position, which is about to reject the Constitutional Bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e290	The difference in the number of votes between local and local elections is almost 500000. Nevertheless, it is considered that these 500 000 should be taken into account when allocating mandates between districts in the event of major elections. We believe that this is unfortunate and that there is an unfortunate inconsistency in the Constitution that should be corrected. For us, it is wrong that persons without the right to vote in the worst case can be decisive for the distribution of their mandates. On the basis of this, I address the proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e299	The representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e304	The centre party was part of the people who put this forward, and we basically support the proposal. But, as I said in the previous case, now we have a choice, and if one is consistent with the fact that one has respect for the work they're going to do, I think it's natural for us to put this question to the election committee as well. That's why the Center Party does not support it in this game.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e309	This is a proposal that has been promoted once before, and a proposal to which SV is strongly critical because it detracts, we believe, a significant proportion of the people living in Norway, representation on the Stortinget. We in SV believe that a wholesaler is a representative of all the people who live in his constituency – whether they have voting rights or not. To draw a parallel: I am also the child’s adult representative, in cooperation with the Children’s Ombudsman. Nor do children have the right to vote in the event of a roll-call election, yet it is important that we, as representatives, also represent their votes, their interests and views, on the Stortinget. Foreign citizens are also judged by Norwegian laws, and they often pay taxes in Norway. So they cannot vote in roll-call elections, but at least they should be counted. In our remarks, we refer to the area supplement in the calculation of the distribution of mandates. That's something we're supporting, but it's interesting that there's an area supplement, so people shouldn't be able to count even if some people don't have the right to vote. To put it like that, area does not have the right to vote. Therefore, SV is strongly critical of the proposal, and we believe it is an unworthy proposal because it sends a signal that someone should not be counted. I think it is unfortunate that it is being presented from this chair, so I would not only recommend that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats not accept this proposal, but I would also like to distance myself from the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e316	Happy New Year, President, and good morning to everyone! SV chooses to put forward our opposition to this proposal – by several – precisely because we are strongly critical of this. The proposal therefore concerns the exclusion of foreign nationals from the calculation of the mandates of the Grand Duchy. It sends some very special signals, and it also raises some important principal and value issues that it's interesting that we're discussing in this room. The consequences of this will be, for example: the areas of Finnmark and Troms will have more representatives, because there are fewer foreign citizens, while in, for example: Oslo and Akershus will have fewer representatives, because there are more foreign nationals. The Constitution is today based on a different principle — calculating the distribution of mandates by population and representing all citizens. The aim of this is that everyone is entitled to representation, regardless of nationality, because they have rights in Norway – they participate in value creation, they may pay taxes, and, as the representative of Övstegård just said, they can be judged by Norwegian law. This proposal will restrict democracy and not extend democracy. So there are a number of groups that are not to be counted and that the Storting should feel less obliged to represent the interests of. These non-nationals will be groups such as: asylum-seekers who have been authorised to stay in Norway but who are waiting for citizenship. There may be people who have married a Norwegian citizen, but who have not received Norwegian citizenship themselves. There will also be a number of people who have the right to vote in local elections. In principle, SV believes that democracy should be as inclusive as possible, and that anyone living in Norway should experience that they have a political representation. This proposal represents the opposite. It implies a restriction of democratic rights. As the Courtyard also pointed out, the proposal gives a signal that the population is divided into two groups. So it's a kind of a team, with Norwegian citizens to be granted full rights, that's included in representation, and that's represented in the Stortinget. Then there is a b-strategy of non-nationals, who are in Norway for various reasons, but who are going to get a weaker representation and are not included in the calculation. It is not safe for the proposers to have thought of the discriminatory signal this gives. But my recommendation is that they should, because it is a highly discriminatory signal coming out of this proposal. In our time it is a completely wrong signal. In Norway, we are now trying to put in place a kind of multicultural nation state. There are a number of residents in Norway who come from different parts of the world to adapt to the Norwegian values and the Norwegian state. At the same time, we need respect for diversity and the country needs to be molded through this melting pot to which we are now exposed, including through integration. We're also working on setting up minority rights. It is also very important that this room is concerned that we ensure that people with a foreign background should be well integrated into Norway and integrated into Norwegian democracy. This proposal gives a completely opposite signal. It signals that this group of citizens located in Norway should not be integrated and should not be included in the calculation of Norwegian democracy. So it goes against some very basic principles of how we are going to develop our democracy. Our democracy must be developed at the most inclusive, not exclusive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e335	The Constitutional proposal concerns the amendment of Section 57, fifth paragraph, that non-resident citizens should not be included in the distribution of their mandates to the Stortinget. It is a fact that those elected to the Storting must be Norwegian citizens. It is also a fact that those who can participate in elections are Norwegian citizens. The case concerns the distribution of mandates within Norway. There we have today a combination of emphasising the number of inhabitants and the area. These are very good reasons why the area has to be counted. It's a long-distance country we have. There are huge distances, and the country is very pig-headedly populated. We have geographically very large counties, with a small population. The knowledge of the conditions there will be too modest in Stortinget if you do not have that combination of persons and areas. I want to take a strong distance from what SV has written in the setting and have performed here from the pulpit. You give the impression that with the proposal, the people who are elected to the Storing don't represent everyone. As ombudsmen, all those elected to the Stortinget shall take care of all residents. Therefore, the proposal does not exclude any representation. The case concerns how to distribute the representation between the states. SV says that it restricts democracy. It's a basic mistake. What, in that case, restricts democracy is that those who can vote in major elections are Norwegian citizens and non-Norwegian citizens. The central party stands firm in saying that Norwegian citizens shall have voting rights in the event of a roll-call vote. We are working on the principle that those who do not have Norwegian citizenship can choose to fulfil the obligations of having Norwegian citizenship, and thus also have the right to vote. So the proposal doesn't add up to a and b layers. There is no discriminatory signal; there is no signal against what was referred to here as the multicultural nation state. What is the central party’s position is the nation state, where there should be a strong integration of all – regardless of the previous situation. So it's a proposal that matches who can be elected as big ones and who can participate in big ones. An increasingly important issue to be clear is whether to land citizens or the number of citizens, because more and more people do not have Norwegian citizenship. These inhabitants are naturally different geographically distributed. When considering the corresponding proposals in 2016, the Labour Party, Right, Christian People's Party, Left, SV and MDG held a vote of half a million in 2014 and amounted to 9,9 pst. of the population in Norway. In Oslo, then, the number of non-residents was 15.8 p.m. of the population, and there was also a high number in Finnmark. The lowest proportion of non-residents was in the North-Trøndelag, with less than 6 pst. So we have a large amount of non-Norwegian citizens. It has direct consequences for how many represent the different states. When someone gets more representatives in Stortinget, others get fewer. What is at the heart of the proposal, to which I am a co-sponsor, is that there are rights and obligations to be followed, and that the principle of citizenship should also be used when measuring the number of counties, together with the area factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e350	It was the representative Petter Eide who made me take the floor. He raised the issue of the integration of foreign nationals in Norway who intend to live here on a permanent basis. The current system is precisely such that you should be given the right to vote, and if you are to be able to vote for the Stortinget, you must become a Norwegian citizen, and that is up to the individual. As Per Olaf Lundtigen said excellently – it follows rights and obligations that go together. If a foreign citizen wants to become a Norwegian national for things, it is a positive tool for positive integration. There is absolutely no discrimination, as someone here claims. I also think it is quite clear that those who have been elected to the National Assembly represent of course everyone. They shall take care of the interests of those living in the country, but there shall be a difference between being a Norwegian national and thus having the right to vote in the event of a major election and being eligible for election to the Grand Duchy. After all, the consequence of the SV’s position must be that any non-resident must also have voting rights in the event of a roll-call vote and must be able to make choices as a roll-call representative. It would have been interesting if Petter Eide could clarify whether it is that SV is really because everyone who is a foreign citizen, but who may live for a certain period in Norway, should also have full rights equal to Norwegian citizens, even though they are actually a foreign citizen. I think that would be a consequence of SV's position. It would be relatively alarming if SV were to admit that all non-residents – what restrictions SV would like to have – would also have voting rights in the case of Norwegian wholesale elections and could be available to Stortinget. I think that might be interesting to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e357	I have a few comments to make on what my colleague and I raised in Oberstegård. It illustrates that this matter is not just about formalism, but about both what signals you give, and what you actually communicate with such a proposal. It is not enough, as the representative Lundtigen points out, just to explain the purely formal aspects of this. Of course, it is – and I am pleased with the clarification – that we, as deposit representatives, should represent everyone who is here. Obviously, it has to be that way. But the signal sent to the 15 pst. foreign nationals who are in this country are precisely required by this proposal to have a type of weaker representation because they are not to be counted in this calculation. The proposer must take responsibility for the signal sent, not just for the formal structures drawn up. The signal sent here, what is communicated, is that it will be an a-layer consisting of Norwegian citizens, who have full rights, and who will be included in the calculation of their mandates, while it is a b-layer, approx. 15 pst. of those living in Norway, as Lundtigen explained, who are not to be included in the calculation, while the Constitution actually intends to include them. That is why I am concerned – and I maintain what I said instead – that the proposal sends a discriminating signal that there are some citizens who are going to have a weaker representation. It may also send the signal to big business representatives that these citizens should be made less worthy of representation in the Storting. To Carl I. Hagen, who points out that integration is important: he has been talking about it in the Grand Duchy for 30 years, and integration starts long before you get a citizenship. There are very many non-Norwegian citizens who are in an integration process pending their citizenship. The signal sent through this proposal would run counter to this very fact because these citizens would then be less deserving to be included in the calculation for the Stortinget. So ask Carl I. Hagen if it is such that SV believes that all non-nationals should have voting rights, and then possibly also be eligible for the Grand Duchy. No, we have a system today that makes some rules for how it should be, and we have not challenged it in our programmes or in our policies. But I still believe that the proposal we are dealing with here is very wrong. It is contrary to our desire to shape the state of Norway as a place where everyone should feel at home, and that everyone should feel that they are well and safely represented by the country's top organ.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e368	I am pleased that the representative Petter Eide stressed what I said, namely that those who are elected to the Storting should represent everyone. They will represent all those in the territory – seafaringly because everyone's behaviour and participation in Norwegian society are important to everyone's stay and participation in society. One may not, of course, discriminate at that point. So Petter Eide says that what's problematic about the proposal I'm a co-sponsor for is the signal that's being sent, that it's going to be an a-layer and a b-layer, that's that there's a difference between people in what's here at the core, that's how to organise democracy. Yes, there is a difference, some are citizens, and others are not citizens. Those who are nationals have the rights and obligations arising therefrom and those who are not nationals are in a different situation. I am very concerned that there should be a close and clear connection between rights and obligations. Those who assume civil obligations also have civil rights. It's a different situation than for those who're not there. When the representative Petter Eide says that it is a discriminatory signal, I have to say that if the term ‘discrimination’ is used in such a way that one here discriminates against non-citizens, it has a different meaning for me. It loses much of its power if it is used that way, because then we have a completely different view of what is discrimination. One might say that those who then have citizenship, who have duties, are discriminated against because they have different and heavier duties than those who do not have citizenship. Such a use of the concept of discrimination is quite foreign to me. I just want to stress that everyone should feel at home in Norway. Everyone who has stayed in Norway for a short or longer time must feel at home, they must be taken care of, they must be safeguarded. This is not the case, it concerns how we are to allocate representatives between the different states – whether it is related to what is the core principle, namely citizenship, or whether it is related to the number of citizens who, at eight-year intervals, have a place in the territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e380	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e397	This case has its background in the fact that, following election observations in Norway, the OSCE/ODIHR has recommended that the rules on ombudsman obligations be amended so that they became more consistent with the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. That criticism from the OSCE/ODIHR was followed up in 2010/2011 by changes to the electoral law for the rules on ombudsmanship in county elections and municipal government elections. However, since the obligation in the election was enshrined in the Constitution, it was not taken into account at the time, because it required the Constitution to be amended. That is why we have this matter before us today. What is in the Constitution and is in force today is that: ‘Any person elected to represent shall be obliged to receive the election, unless he or she (d) is a member of a political party and is elected on an electoral list starting from another party.’;» [[...]] Point d of the legal text is what is relevant to this matter. To this end, the proposers propose a new point (c), which should read as follows: ‘have made a written declaration that he does not wish to appear on an electoral roll.’;» And in neonorsk: "has given written notice that it will not appear in an option list." The letter d, which I just referred to, and which is current today, is then proposed. The Convention states that no one should be forced to be a member of a political party or a political group that has not been elected. The only reason for exemption has so far been the submission to another batch if proposed on a list. I myself have been the head of state and received notifications on the basis that someone has been proposed on other electoral lists, and the only way to get away from it is to sign up for another party. That's not a good solution. Even if these changes are to be made, the proposers state that the obligation to make and the obligation to make an ombudsman at the time of the election should not be undermined. It is an important principle in our arrangements, it should be firm, and it should not be changed – it is good. The proposed Constitutional Amendment provides the basis for a much better solution – a clean solution – and it will also have the consequence that the election law §3-2, first paragraph, point (c) has to be amended in order to comply with the Constitution. It is an overall committee that supports these proposals. It is expected that this draft constitution will be adopted here today in the Chamber. We believe that this is a good move to have an even better democratic system around the electoral system and the ombudsman obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e432	The reason why I take the floor is that I think that the fact that we are now dealing with a matter that is likely to be adopted by a necessary constitutional majority is a very good picture of how good our constitution is. Today we are dealing with a number of constitutional proposals. Most of them are not going to be adopted. Some are going to be rejected by a majority. But it is possible to change the Constitution, and that seems to me to symbolize very strongly the strength of the Norwegian Constitution: it is difficult to change, but it is possible to change it when there is agreement on it, and when that is right. With regard to the content of the proposal, I think it is a very good proposal, especially with the development we have seen some examples in recent years, that people are obviously put on lists that they have no interest in standing on, or with which they strongly disagree. A little talk about what was previously the law in force in the municipalities, that one could be listed voluntarily: once, either late in the 1940s or early in the 1950s, my father was put on the Left List in Larvik. As a result, he joined the Workers' Party and thus refused to appear on the Left's list. That was good, but I realize that it is right that you should not have to take advantage of the possibility of not getting on and representing a list that you do not want to support. This is a good proposal, and I am glad that everything indicates that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e458	I would also like to start by thanking the members of the Committee for their good cooperation. The draft Constitution that we are dealing with relates to the amendment to Section 14, which prohibits the appointment of major government representatives. The proposal was supported by the deposit representatives Per Olaf Lundtägen, Marit Arnstad and Kjersti Toppe. The proposed amendment of the Constitution concerns the prohibition of the appointment of representatives of the State Secretaries of Great Britain. The proposers propose to exclude the appointment of depositors as State Secretaries in two alternatives. Option 2 includes, in addition to State Secretaries, political advisers at the Council of State offices. During the examination of the draft constitution, the Committee agreed that it is a fundamental challenge that today’s system allows the government to influence the composition of persons on the Stortinget in a way that is different from the judgment of the voters. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee states that today’s system is good to maintain, because it allows the government to increase access to persons with the necessary skills and experience in the appointment of State Secretaries. A restriction on the recruitment process may in some cases have unintended effects that can be experienced both unfairly and inconceivably desirable. This draft Constitution has been promoted in the past, but did not achieve a sufficient constitutional majority in the course of the Grand Duchy’s proceedings. The majority of the majority of the population thought that today's system should be continued, but with a mandate to exercise political discretion which requires a certain degree of moderation in recruiting from the Stortinget. This call has actually been followed. There's no problem in today's situation, there's almost no way that big business representatives are appointed as state secretaries. In the comments from the Committee's deliberations, the importance of maintaining the principle that the Storting should have a strict practice of granting exemptions from the grossing-up exercise is evident. Nevertheless, as I said at the outset, the majority of the committee recommends that today's system be continued, but with a continuing call for political discretion which requires some moderation in recruiting from the Stortinget. The draft Constitution is therefore not acceptable. On this basis, the majority of the committee – the members of the Labour Party and the Right – does not support the draft constitution of representatives of Per Olaf Lundtägen, Marit Arnstad and Kjersti Toppe on an amendment to Section 14, which prohibits the appointment of depositors to state secretaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e475	Its composition is determined by the Norwegian people in elections. That's the way it should be. As today's system is practised and has been practised for years, the government can directly intervene by picking representatives from this hall and giving them positions within the government. There is no direct ‘responsive’ to the Norwegian people, who have chosen them. We believe that this is unfortunate, and we hope that this practice can now change. As I said in the introduction, the composition of the Storting is determined by the Norwegian people in elections. Then we believe that it is right and important that the Storting respects this. Against this background, I recommend option 2 of the proposal that the government cannot appoint representatives of the state secretaries or appoint political advisers at the Council of State offices. I'm dealing with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e484	The representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e489	I think this is a very good and well thought out proposal. It's a shame that today one can't make a decision on this. I thought the previous representative argued very well about what was in the proposal. When the majority in the committee itself say that this is a fundamental challenge, but that there is no big problem today, it is also difficult to understand that two of the largest parties, Right and Workers' Party, cannot support this proposal. Do they have such little confidence in their own devices that they have crews that they can fit into the government apparatus, that they do not dare to deny this possibility – when it is undeniably a major democratic problem that one of them is conversing with those chosen by the voters on the Stortinget? I think it would have been high time that we could now have been able to get this decision, so that it was quite clear and was a basis for the appointment of state secretaries and political advisers. It had been a cleaner system. We had been given the message quite clearly, and we had followed up what I think many people out there feel is a big problem – that the government can actually go in and control the composition of the storeroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e496	I actually asked for the word after I saw that Per Olaf Lundtigen had drawn himself, and had hoped to come after him, for I thought I would answer what I know he's going to say. It has been like this in the last few days that I have been challenged by what I mean, given that I was one of the proposers for the same proposal the first time it was being discussed, in the previous period. So I can confirm, and reassure Lundtigen and any other delicate souls, that I am still going to vote in favour of the proposal. I do, because I think it's basically right to have a principle approach to the relationship between government and greatness. Just as the representative, Søttar, said, that someone who is appointed Secretary of State is not responsible to Stortinget, I believe is the crucial principle. I have sometimes said that I also think it is an important part of the proposal to maintain respect for the magnificence, and who in the world would have respect for the Storting if the Storting did not have it? I am pleased that the matter is being debated by a unanimous committee, which sees the dilemma, and I am also very pleased that the representatives Michael Tetzschner and Martin Kolberg – both of them – at the last time dealing with this matter were very clear that caution has to be exercised here, otherwise we have to come back to the proposal. I hope that the proposal will be discussed in the next period too, but I have therefore been accepted – as one of those who have taken the initiative in the proposal – and can reassure Lundtigen that I am going to vote in favour of the proposal. I can also tell the President that that's why I said no yesterday to meet Lundtigen for debate in New Year's Eve 18, because I thought it was a little too stupid that two people who agreed would sit there and discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e509	I would also recommend to the SV’s Group to endorse this proposal, and then option 2, for the principle that has been mentioned, that there is only one government council that is responsible for the Storting, will also affect political advisers in this matter. It may also be worth noting – since we are on the honest tone of the pulpit – that the last time this matter was dealt with, SV voted against the corresponding proposal. But now, after a new reading, we have also come to the conclusion that the principle in this matter is so important because it is what is really at the heart of the parliamentary system: the relationship between magnificence and government, the principle that the Storting and its composition cannot be influenced by the government and the elections it takes. In addition, an important principle for the SV to reach the position of accepting these proposals is that voters should know which representatives they choose for the Storting. It is also an important principle in our electoral system, it is important for our citizens, our voters, that when they choose a list, they can trust – mostly, at least – that the names on that list will also be those chosen on the Storting. So I also have to point out, as we do in the setting, that this is an actual problem. There has been a lot of debate under governments of several colors. We have no guarantee that the problem can again arise, and then I believe that there is a strength in the Constitution that when it comes to such very important questions of principle, it has been ensured. There are several provisions of the Constitution that are of that nature, and then SV also believes that this issue is so important in principle aspects of the relationship between the Grand Duchy and the Government of a parliamentary system that the proposals should be adopted. Unfortunately, it is not the necessary constitutional majority this time either, but we can hope that more representatives, for example. in the Workers' Party, follow the good example of the Chairman of the Committee and follow his own conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e522	When I am in favour of this proposal, it is to get clear lines. Thus, those who make the decisions and receive such support from the voters that they are chosen will be awarded a contract with their voters. They get a contract with their voters to be ombudsmen, and they will then be large-scale representatives – in my opinion with one important exception, namely that one can become the Council of State. As others have pointed out, proposals have been made for the same thing in the past. It was a similar proposal on 31 January 2012, where the entire presidency was behind it, but when we came to the vote of the Control Committee on 9 February 2016, it was only support from the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left. I've been wondering a lot about what's going on in this room and the influence in this room that makes it still in a situation where there's no constitutional majority to change the Constitution at this point. I have come to the conclusion that a underlying reason is that the proposal will limit the freedom of action of the government strategies to various reasons – and I stress for different reasons – to facilitate the removal of depositors from the Storting, or involve them in something else, and into the government apparatus as state secretaries or personal advisers. It seems that all parties agree that this is unfortunate, but nevertheless one should have that opportunity. I note with interest the difference in the argument in this setting versus what the case rapporteur said in 2016, Michael Tetzschner. The representative Tetzschner said at the time that the argument for today's practice is that one will retain the opportunity to have the best talents for the tasks of the State Secretary. The argument against dealing with the verdict of the voters, and it is not entirely inconceivable, as the representative Tetzschner said at the time. The representative, Tetzschner, also said in the debate at the time that the main consideration was that there is the speech of the voters in the individual electoral districts who are deciding which people fill the hall we have here in front of us. I think there was a very clear speech from the rapporteur, who was very careful to argue against the proposal. In the current position, the Right-wing Representatives say ‘that today’s system is good to maintain, because it gives the government apparatus broad access to several of their capable and competent politicians’. It shows that one government wants to have the freedom of action to collect, for various reasons, depositors who have the electoral contract with their voters, to another role during the downtime, which we see as clearly unlucky by the Central Party. I am pleased that the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, stands by what he has said. It was a surprise to me that the representative will still vote in favour of the constitution proposal and thus also vote against his own position, but it was a plus in the book, I would say – a rare plus in the book. I haven't experienced it that many times. As others have said, SV has turned around and is now in favour of the proposal. But then we experience that the Left has also turned around, and they are now opposed to the proposal. The centre party is committed to the electoral contract and will, through the cut-off government strategists, be able to collect guttering representatives as state secretaries or personal secretaries. It's important to stick to the election contract that any major representative has with the many who gave them the confidence to sit here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e539	I have the advantage that I got to come after the representative Lundtigen, but I still had a certain sense of what he would say, because we had an opportunity yesterday, in a different context, to repeat the debate from four years ago. I just want to say, to the extent that I was taken to revenue for a point of view here, that as case rapporteur almost four years ago I also had a discussion of the counter-arguments, but we fell on what is the current position of the committee, namely that this is not a big problem, and that, in terms of both constitutional changes and legislation, we should perhaps focus on the problems that are actually felt and that are real. Can I just say to the post from Lundtägen, who was a little disappointed by the presidency's proposal, which was made for one period, and then it was a year before a roll call was made, that I understood that the new big thing had not lived up to Lundtägen's expectations of sticking to the presidency's constitution, even though it had been made with an impressive breadth. But it is precisely what is the procedure for constitutional changes, that you have the opportunity to leave a proposal to rest, let it be discussed – now perhaps this was not one of the hottest issues in the election campaign, but nevertheless. It was a new big thing that, with a new look at this, did exactly what the Constitution requires when we're going to change it, that you think about letting the positions mature, and then it's the new big thing that makes a decision. Actually, this is just an image that a constitutional change is not a mechanical and formal process like someone at the top, for example. Here the presidency, the starters, and then we'll just have to align ourselves gradually. This is an example of – and I also agree with the points made by Committee Chairman Dag Terje Andersen – the mechanisms that make us think very well about when we change the Constitution. I also have to say that one of the reasons why this case is certainly nuanced from both sides is the underlying principle of power distribution. It is quite right that those who want to vote in favour of this proposal say that it is not unproblematic that the government can recruit from the Stortinget. So today there is no formal barrier, but if we compare with the practice that has been in the four years since this was the last time, the government has not provided the unimpeded weight benches to recruit their equipment. On the contrary, it has followed up what was the majority of the Storting, also for those who did not vote for the change last, namely that it showed moderation and wisdom and good judgment by not losing the good powers of the Storting to the State Secretary functions. Then I also have to say something about one of the last two points, and that's this notion that the individual representative is almost an independent satellite, and therefore is very dependent on which person is recruited from the counties. I would have liked to see that there was a greater degree of individuality, that we sometimes liberated ourselves a little bit from the party soldier's expected march, and that we could discuss so that the real majority could come up in the Storting, a little bit more unbound by party bonds. But now the situation is just that individuality we have to rehabilitate in other ways than just by this grandiose principle here. I believe that the independence of representatives is important to have independent institutions, but rather we have to start with what hangs on the independence of representatives, and not spend a lot of time on a purely symbolic exercise, as this can quickly be. The last point is a presentation where it seems that the voters in a state have sent an excellent person to the Stortinget, and then he is almost wiped out of the reality of the government, almost harmless. But I would say that very many voters who have wanted a person from their district into the Stortinget, will also think it is excellent if they can exercise their good judgment in the government apparatus. It's not necessarily the same as getting harmless. So I want to mark a certain distance to that part of the setting where the central part argues that the government can bring rebel elements of the Storting to peace by taking them into the government apparatus. I think most people will understand that cannot be a conspiracy The size should listen to. Moreover, many of the other arguments are good, but this is not of the best that those who want to vote in favour of the proposal have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e552	After hearing the post of the representative Tetzschner, I must honestly admit that I have some problems catching up with what he says, and what he really means. He argues quite clearly in principle that it would have been reasonable to have such a rule in the Constitution, at the same time as he started his post saying that this really is not the big question. Then a question can be asked whether the representative Tetzschner has read what is in the position of his own representatives, and whether the representative Tetzschner agrees. For what is said by the representatives of the Right is that a ‘considers that the present system is good to maintain, because it provides the government apparatus with access to several of their competent and competent politicians’.» There's an argument that gives the impression that this is a right that you have today, and that one can also imagine that multiple batches will use more in the future, if they are maintained. One goes on to say: ‘A restriction on the recruitment process may in some cases have unintended effects which may be unreasonably and undesirable.’ It would have been an advantage if the parties – in this case the party of the representative Tetzschner – had given detailed reasons why a voter should express himself this way in the vote, when arguing against the proposal. When one says that it is important because it gives the government apparatus ‘one in access to several of their competent and competent politicians’, and that in some cases it will cause ‘unintentional effects that can be felt unreasonablely and not desirable’: what is in the wording if it is not the intention of the Right to recruit politicians? I heard the representative Tetzschner conclude by saying that it would probably be fine for many voters in a state that a depositor can also use his power into a government apparatus. But when a statesman makes a choice, a contract is concluded in which one has for a four-year period made the choice that one wants to be elected to the national parliament – not that one should be a state secretary or, for that matter, have other important tasks in society. Then one makes a choice, and the voters say that they want to give it the representative and the party the confidence to play that role, to be the ombudsman – to adopt the laws of the country, to stand on the pulpit of the Storting and to be the ombudsman for the matters, for the county and the area they represent. It's something quite different than being a State Secretary. If a person is picked up in the government apparatus as a state secretary, then one of the exceptions is the possibility of standing on the pulpit of the Stortinge, on the main pulpit we have in Norway. One is deprived of the opportunity to participate in the treatment of laws, to participate and vote over what should be both the Norwegian Constitution and other laws in society. That is why there is a completely decisive and fundamental difference between the position that is open to today, that is to say, the possibility of large-scale representatives becoming state secretaries, and what the Constitutional Amendment proposes, that that opening should be removed. Of course – and I really should hope that the government will agree – that there are many competent and competent depositors who could do a good job in the government apparatus. But then one looks at the storeroom as a recruiter's arena for its own appliance, instead of seeing the storeroom as it really is, namely that the Storting is above the government, and that it is the government that is going to find out what the Storing decides, and that it is not just a place where you can pick individuals into a government apparatus. It's not going to be the last time that this question is discussed in Stortinget, and I hope that on the next crossroads the outcome can be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e573	First, I want to correct a mistake. I wasn't critical enough and didn't go deep enough in the sources, because it says in the papers that it was the former presidency that suggested that state secretaries could not be appointed among big business representatives. With regard to the proposal that was made on 31 January, I have been informed that not the entire presidency was behind it. We were into what is part of the core of my article. It was one party at the time that had an alternate inside, and that alternate was also a member of the presidency. And why was that alternate from SV inside as an alternate? Well, because the representative was appointed Secretary of State to the government. So here we have what I said, that the access to using big business representatives as state secretaries is something like the government strategists – and it seems to be in more parties than just the Workers' Party and the Right – will have opening for, while SV, now that they're in a new situation, fortunately has turned around and stands with the Center Party. Otherwise I took the floor to what the representative Tetzschner said about a mechanical, formal treatment. I agree that there should be no mechanical, formal processing of constitutional proposals. What's interesting to me is that implementing constitutional changes is formally very demanding. The proposals shall be promoted by 30 September of the year preceding a roll-out vote, and shall be addressed, if appropriate, by the next roll-out. It has been because those who made this legislation believed that representatives and parties were behind the constitution proposals. I think that's what understanding is. I have not gone thoroughly to the sources there either, but there can be no other understanding of this than that a made such a procedural procedure because one expected those who proposed constitutional changes and who also made elections, either as a person or as a party, also stood by the proposal in the new bigotry. I also believe that engaged voters today have the same understanding of it: when a constitutional proposal is promoted, one expects the people and parties they represent to be at that proposal when it comes later. But now it's not like that. We have a big problem in that the Constitutional proposals do not have the authority of society that this procedure should have, in my view. That is why it is important to increase respect for the Constitutional proposals, and it is important that we have a more committed debate on the proposals before the roll-call elections, so that we do not get into the situation repeatedly that Constitutional proposals are something like a proposal, and so when it comes to the debate in the subsequent bigotry, well, the situation is quite different, without any new arguments in the matter that would lead to the conclusion being different.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e581	To conclude, I would like to say that what increases interest and respect for Constitutional proposals is perhaps that they are targeting more truly felt problems. There may be other aspects of the development of our state constitution that can lead to problems and that we have not regulated. I'm thinking, for example. in the press both indictment authorities and courts occasionally experience, when poachers have clear opinions and messages in ongoing legal proceedings, even during the taking of evidence, and allow photographers to take a break in one of our District Courts. There's not quite a good sense of respect for the functional distribution between the legislature and, here, the judiciary, not the executive. So you could say, well, are we going to fine-tune this? It's at least a bigger problem than what we're discussing today. To Lundtigen, I would also like to say that the party growth has come after we got the change provision in the Constitution; the Constitution is much older than the party system itself. If we look at the famous painting behind us, by Oscar Wergeland, that parliament on Eidsvoll on May 17th, but on May 13th, when we negotiated the Constitution that has been unchanged since. So it's just supposed to be a high threshold to change the Constitution. To Gülsvik's more concrete challenge, where it was attempted to create a contrast between the debate we had four years ago, what I said then, and what I say now, and the setting: I just keep to the conclusion that for our part is the same. We support the majority position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, not least because this problem has not increased in the four years, precisely because the government has shown the restraint in the matter that the majority at the time wanted. Then I must also say that when it is argued that a representative is almost deprived of the possibility of the country's main pulpit, I agree that this is an important and perhaps the most important public interlocutors, but he is not being wiped out into a political void. In addition, there is no printing right for the government. It is possible for a representative to say that it is so interesting and meaningful to be on Stortinget that you prefer it and say no to the request. Then again, it is a task for the Storting itself to be relevant and to be a place where we discuss real problems, where it is both honorable and significant to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e592	I think this is a very interesting debate. It probably also has some background on the question of what is most important — being a big business representative or being a state secretary. The fact that being a member of the government is more important than being a representative of big business, we all accept, but whether a government secretary should be more important than a representative of big business has been discussed for a long time. I am very pleased that my party supports the fact that a depositor’s representative can no longer be appointed Secretary of State, because the depositor’s representative is in the forefront of importance. When we're going to evaluate this, we have to look at what a State Secretary is. He is not a member of the government, that is, of the government. Then it's actually unclear what a state secretary really is. Is a Secretary of State an official? No, no, no. Here there has been confusion all along, and I think it might be time for the presidency or others to take an initiative to get a clear definition of the Secretary of State. It is stated in Section 22 of the Basic Law: ‘The Minister of State and the other members of the Council of State and the Secretaries of State may, without prior judgment, be dismissed by the King after hearing the views of the Council of State on this matter.’; So the State Secretaries are mentioned in the Constitution, but different from officials, which you then go in. So there's another big question about state secretaries: where do they belong in the constitutional and criminal justice system? We have two governance systems, the parliamentary management system and the constitutional system, which are also based on criminal rules for members of the Council of State under the so-called Liability Act. It applies to the members of the Government, but it does not apply to State Secretaries. When, for example, a State Secretary, who may have real authority and make decisions on an independent basis in the government apparatus, is criminal law liable for a decision that violates the rules of law? As I assess it, this is today completely in a vacuum. It's not very lucky that we have a system of rules and penalties for officials, officials, and for members of the government, the Council of State, while we have nothing about state secretaries. I think that's an unfortunate situation, because it would be easier to discuss this with state secretaries if we knew what a real legal function they actually had.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e606	Just a few comments after visits along the way in the debate: firstly, it is important to clarify that we in the Right have had a very thorough debate on this proposal. We have accepted the assessments and assessments, and not least – as the representative Tetzschner has pointed out twice now – we have seen whether this is a real need, which means that we need to make a constitutional change. We've made the point that it's not. To this picture that if you were to become a state secretary, you would have broken all the intentions towards your voters and were completely out of the picture: at least I know that in my constituency, my voters would cheer if I ended up in the government apparatus, and whose candidate number two, which they would also have entered, would have entered the Stortinget. Think of two from that electoral district in central political positions! This is not directly to the matter, but it is to the argument I hear here in the Chamber. That argument also seems to me to be a bad argument. The voters want us into central political positions, where we can be representatives of our electoral districts and our voters. The representative, Gülsvik, was the one who made me draw on the list of speakers, because he is trying to add Right-wing intentions for the extensive use of large-scale representatives in the government apparatus. We've shown, over the period of government we've been sitting, that it's not relevant. That's not where we are. But the reason why there's a concern about this is that when we want the whole country and all the areas of the country to be represented in the government apparatus, there are some places in the country that it might be best suited to entering that apparatus currently is a magnificent representative. That's something we're serious about. All parts of the country must have occasion, and we want the whole country to be represented with the best people, and then there are also good representatives of the people who can come in and take care of the big business. That's why it says it. So to the important thing, which is an answer to Mr. Geelsvik's post: there's more in that note. It says: ‘These members consider it important to maintain the principle that the Storting should have a strict practice in granting an exemption from the grossing-up operation.’ It also states that it is assumed that one is restrictive in recruiting from the Stortinget. That is the conclusion of that remark. Then a twist and twist at it, without me fully understanding the purpose of it, but at least that's the conclusion in the comment that's important to bring with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e624	The reason I referred from that note is that I agree with what is stated in the first sentence, namely that today's rules give the government apparatus a broad access to the collection of several of their competent and competent politicians. It is good to hear that the representative Harberg believes that one should be restrictive, but in today's situation there is one wide approach. This means that different governments, based on different assessments of appropriateness, can use the wide range of access available today. I'm not exactly reassured by Mr. Harberg's posts, where he says it will be positive for some electoral districts, because then they can pick up more and more magnification representatives and raise them to state secretaries. Then it will give the electoral district the opportunity to get alternate representatives into the Stortinget. But that's exactly what's the problem here. Those who have been appointed as permanent deposit representatives have a mandate to fill as deposit representatives. Rather – and that is an opportunity – those who are alternate representatives of the Stortinget can become state secretaries, rather than those who are bigots representatives today, to move up to become state secretaries, and then alternate representatives are to enter the Stortinget. Unfortunately, the last article by the representative Harberg did not contribute to alleviating the concerns about this issue. As I said, the main point is that, as the Constitution is formulated today, it provides for access to the right to be collected as State Secretaries. That's why there's good reason to change the Constitution at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e633	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e650	In this position of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and in Stortinget now, we are dealing with two basic legislative proposals dealing with referendums. It is a proposal from Ulf Leirstein and Erlend Wiborg for a new section 85 a, which briefly states that one third of the representatives of the Stortinget should be able to require certain decisions in the Stortinget to be put to a referendum within a certain period. The second proposal is from Per Olaf Lundtägen and Kjersti Toppe on the new second paragraph of Section 49, which implies that if at least one hundred thousand citizens so require, new legislative acts and decisions on the accession to the Treaties can be set aside by referendum. The condition for the referendum to be valid is that at least 40 pst. by those who are entitled to vote. The majority of the Committee points out that both of these proposals could restrict the legislator’s right to adopt laws and, where appropriate, adopt Norwegian accession to international treaties. Several referenda have been held in Norway. It has been done precisely because the Storting has assessed that the issues that have been put to the vote have been so important that they have asked for the people's assessment. The majority in the Committee seem to have worked well. So the big picture has the opportunity to put matters to a referendum if the Storting wants to. The majority of the Committee therefore recommends that none of the two proposals be accepted. We have two minorities in the Committee – one who recommends that the proposal by Mr Leirstein and Mr Wiborg be accepted, and another who recommends that the proposal by Mr Lundtigen and Mr Toppe be accepted. I guess you want to explain your point of view yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e667	Our proposal concerns a new second paragraph of Section 49, on referendum. The proposal is inspired – I stress it – by the Swiss referendum system. The proposal shall render the adoption of formal laws superfluous by referendum whenever it appears desirable. People's initiative on referendum will complement the role of the Stortinge in our democracy. The result of the vote may be either advisory or binding on the decision of the Storting. In 1994, the referendum result was an advisory sea on both the Workers' Party and the Right argued that it would be binding at the time. The proposal concerns the Treaties. The theme of the referendum is treaties, i.e. binding agreements on international law between two or more states. Other names of the Treaties may be the Convention, the Agreement, the Agreement, the Charter, the Charter or the Protocol. A treaty may be bilateral, between two States, or multilaterally, between several States. The people shall be able to put aside new legislative acts and decisions to accede to the Treaties by means of a referendum. The people's initiative must be promoted by at least a hundred thousand citizens – I underline by signature, a signature that gives a verifiable ID, so that we are sure that there are citizens who fulfil the rights and obligations behind the initiative. The participation in a referendum must be at least 40 pst. by the persons entitled to vote. So I want to say that there's a high threshold for you to be able to demand a referendum. And to those who have responded to the proposal and said that here one can only have a Facebook action to initiate this: No, it's a completely different seriousness we're talking about here. So referenda is going to be more of a security valve in our democracy, it's going to be a part of creating debate, and it's going to be a part of creating public information. I have to say that public information should soon become the new slogan within what everyone is talking about, a knowledge-based development. In key areas, the knowledge that forms the basis for development is present to a limited extent. What we're talking about here will contribute to a public education so that we can get a real progress in knowledge. This will lead to a revitalisation, leading to greater participation in addressing key societal issues. It is a positive step towards strengthening democracy. I am in favour of the proposal tabled by Mr Toppe and the undersigned, and I would also like to support proposal No. 3, from SV, about an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e680	We live in an age of increased pressure on our people's rule from more teams. There is an international trend, and what seems to be going on in that trend, is that the population is experiencing an increasing distance between power and the population, an increasing distance between those who govern, and those who are being directed, challenges to the legitimacy of our people's rule. A little personal example is from my own constituency and my own hometown, Sarpsborg, where we have an constituency, Alvim, which in recent years has become known because it is the constituency that has the lowest turnout. There is a constituency with such a low turnout that you can ask questions about whether it is legitimate at all when less than half of the voting rights are valid. It's serious. Fortunately, good forces have engaged themselves and provided a higher turnout – now at the local government elections at the latest. Nevertheless, it's a talking example that some of what we take for granted by the People's Government is under pressure. So what's the answer to a government that's being challenged in several different ways? Well, it has to be expanding, deepening and strengthening it, making it more alive, letting it be more inviting, and not least moving decisions closer to the population. SV wants a more participatory democracy. There are many ways to get to it that everyone is really about a simple and straightforward principle of giving more power and authority to the population. This can be done locally by inviting the population to make the budget in the municipality – participating budgeting, a model that is widely used around the world, engaging the population in local political processes. It can also be strengthened by more use of referendums. It is an expression that the people are invited directly into the resolution of particularly important matters. A third important way to make the government more involved is to give citizens initiatives, to allow citizens to take initiatives on issues. For this reason, SV has decided that we want to give citizens the right of initiative to the Stortinget, as they have to local government and county councils – if you collect enough signatures, you can raise a case for the elected representatives. Just the way in which referendums are conducted is not proposed here today. Nevertheless, the SV’s Group is choosing to recommend that it endorse the proposal that citizens should be able to make demands for a referendum, i.e. proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The difference between that proposal and the proposal of the Progress Party is that it is the people who are to have the right of initiative, it is not a minority right for large-scale representatives. You give the people the opportunity to travel an important matter. It will be a clearer empowerment of the population. But it's not a perfect suggestion. That the number should be exactly 100,000, seems a little strange to me, all the time the population evolves and there's more of us. The proposal is also about a passive, non-active, right of initiative, i.e. the people can oppose something that is about to be introduced, nor have the opportunity to actually promote new issues for treatment for the Storting. The last one would be more to be preferred to the SV part. So finally, but not least: one consequence of this proposal is that the referendum will be binding. That question is not something SV has taken a position on either for or against, and that is perhaps the main reason why we in this setting ask for an investigation, all the time we see from the vote that the Constitutional proposal itself does not get the required majority constitutionally in the Chamber. For there are many aspects, especially that part of the proposal, which should be examined in greater detail. It's about, for example, – and in particular – on the consequences of human law. It will mean a change of constitutionally that one should examine the consequences of. Nevertheless, the SV wants to signal that all the time we have a situation where the People's Government is under pressure, the elected representatives should be concerned about opening up a more participatory democracy, and we want to show that by recommending the SV's Grandfather's Group to endorse proposal No. 2 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e699	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e704	Yes, I would like to address proposal No. 2 and also proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e709	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The next speaker is Leif – no, Ulf Leirstein!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e717	Thank you very much, President. Dear child has many names! I want to refer to Constitutional Amendment 12:14 for 2015–2016, on a new § 85 a, on referendum. This is the proposal that I signed, together with the representative Erlend Wiborg, has made, and is based on Section 42 of the Danish Constitution. The draft Constitutional Law states that one third of the representatives of the Storting should be able to require, within a certain period, that certain decisions of the Stortinge should be put to a referendum. If there is a majority against the decision, the proposal shall be rejected. The outcome of the referendum will be binding. In other words, it is not a question of giving the people a right to demand that certain matters be referred to a referendum, so-called a people's initiative, but of a right for a minority in the United Kingdom to take up the issue of asking the people through a binding referendum on decisions in the United Kingdom on major important issues. The proposal contains a number of limitations, including: related to State budget decisions. However, the proposal is not intended to stop the Storting from holding referendums through general decisions, even in those areas where the Storing considers this appropriate, if it is a majority of the Storing. Democracy means people's rule, and that's why natural, as I see it, with a safety valve that allows the people to make the final decision in bigger matters. Nor, in Norway, has the majority of the population been in principle opposed to the use of referendums. There have been six nationwide nationwide national referendums in Norway, the first two in 1905 on governance and the Union resolution, then in 1919, where the referendum imposed a ban on spirits, and in 1926, when the same ban was lifted. And then we have the last two on Norwegian membership of the European Community and the European Union, in 1972 and 1994. The fact that the people are told their opinion directly in major matters through a referendum rather than only through indirect elected representatives is about strengthening democracy, and we are legitimizing our governance further. As the people's representatives, you should not be concerned about listening to the opinion of the people and directing us to the people's opinion. There are good examples of rich and well-functioning democracies that allow citizens to participate directly in democracy through referendums. One example is Switzerland. I have found figures that show that from 1848 until the end of 2004 totaled 531 federal referendums, and there are still regular referendums on important social issues. It is such in that system that a certain proportion of the population may demand that matters be brought before the referendum, which Parliament must then follow up. It's a direct democracy, which works, which has sat down, and which has been tested for many years in Switzerland. Unfortunately, I have no faith that we can implement the same system in Norway overnight. I think we have to go a little bit slower. That is why I think that this constitution, which I myself have been in the process of drafting, will lead to a slightly greater opening in order to have a debate through the Constitution on more referendums and, hopefully, to have more referendums. Giving the people more power can be felt carelessly by some. I am constantly listening to debates that many people believe that, since they have gained the confidence of the people elected by elections, they have also been given the powers during the current period. In my view, this is not the way to manage the trust you get through elections; on the contrary, you should ask the voters more often about their opinions through referendums – and follow the outcome. A good saying is that people should be viewed as their masters and not as their servants. For many years I have been concerned that we should have a more direct democracy. It also means allowing for a greater degree of referendums. The draft Constitution we are now debating is based on an established and well-tested practice from Denmark, and it is good experience in the eyes of those who have signed it in our neighbouring country. The paragraph is assumed to be of great indirect importance, as the negotiating climate between different parties and politicians will constantly ensure that they have in mind that a minority can promote a case for the people to judge in a referendum. This can create better processes and constantly remind politicians in Denmark of the importance of caring for the interests of the people. A system proposed in this proposal will also stimulate the interest in policy and social governance, as it will allow individual choices to be directly involved in decision-making – including between choices. In the long term, as proposers, we believe that the proposal we are promoting could affect legitimacy and the ability to maintain a well-functioning democracy. In other words, it is high time for a democracy reform, a reform for the people, where the people – and not the politicians – are put in the centre. The size has already seen the importance of referenda on local issues in the municipalities, and I am pleased that we legislated the right to local referendums in 2009. Now it is time to take the next step in the democratisation process and ensure that the people get greater rights also nationally, by legislating a right to binding referenda in the Norwegian Constitution. With this I address the proposal I have referred to. I would also like to make a few comments on the other two proposals that have been put forward, the original draft constitution by Per Olaf Lundtägen and Kjersti Toppe, which is promoted by SV in the Chamber today, and the supplementary proposal by SV, which calls on the Presidency to carry out an investigation. After looking at this, I have to say that I think these are good suggestions. Firstly, it is very good if we could get a model where a certain number of signatures from the citizens require a case submitted for a referendum, and the proposal from Per Olaf Lundtägen and Kjersti Toppe is a good proposal which is also fully in line with the party program I myself have proposed for elections to the Stortinget repeatedly. I understand that it is not adopted, but I think it is still natural that I give my support to the proposal, as it is in line with what I have always meant. Then we have the proposal from SV, and I think the representative of Hövstegård has made good arguments for it. It should actually be something that the whole Storting ended up saying: that you now got an investigation to see if you get all the challenges by introducing a greater degree of referendums that many claim. Then we would have had a good investigation of it, and we could have had an exciting debate in the next big period on what opportunities there are for more referendums to be used. So I also want to give my support to that proposal, which has been promoted as proposal No. 3 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e756	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e761	Happy New Year to the President, too. I now choose to concentrate on the proposal from Per Olaf Lundtigen and Kjersti Toppe and explain why we support this. We have also promoted our own proposal. The proposal here is that the people can, by means of a referendum, set aside new legislative decisions on Norway's accession to different kinds of treaties. As the representative of Øvstegård has spoken well about, SV supports processes of exploring our democracy and also exploring and discovering new ways of holding referendums. So we support the intention of this proposal. I have to admit that I was quite strongly opposed to this proposal, but I was persuaded by the treatment in several group meetings in SV, and we agreed that we could support this on a kind of intentional basis, but with the assurance contained in proposal No. Three, that this should be investigated. I'll explain a little bit about what's behind this. Although we support the Lundtigen and Toppe proposals here, this proposal involves a number of rather problematic issues, particularly in three areas – first, purely constitutional, then international law, and thirdly, linked to this minority initiative. I'll take these three relationships for granted. The proposal involves a new referendum institute which may also involve binding referendums. In Norway today, the Constitution is built on an architecture of three state powers, magnificence, government and courts, and it is in the balance of power between these three state powers that our democracy is designed. We in Stortinget know this very well, and the representative Lundtegen is an expert on it. By establishing a mandatory referendum institute, the balance of power between the existing state powers is distorted. How, then, will binding referenda be able to find its place in the balance of power between magnificence, government and courts? It has not been explored in this proposal, but it is clear that this will mean that the balance of power between these three state powers will be rocked in a way. This is not as simple as it is today, for example. The budget decisions and legislative decisions of the Grand Duchy are legally binding on the Government, while the decision of the Grand Duchy is not legally binding on the Government, it is only politically binding. So there's a big difference between that and taking initiatives to make more use of referendums, because referenda is only politically binding, while so-called binding referenda will also be legally binding and will need to find its place in the Constitution and in the balance of power between the three state powers. That is why it is crucial for us to be able to support such a proposal that we get an investigation that explores the constitutional consequences of this proposal and almost writes about the Constitution so that we get a new architecture in the balance of power between the existing state powers that this proposal will rock. As far as international law is concerned, this proposal will deal with various kinds of treaties, as the representative Lundtigen explained in his good introduction. It is not possible to undermine the fact that for Lundtigen and Toppe there are enough treaties linked to the EU and the EEA that are the most central, but we also need to be aware that this proposal, as it is now designed, can also mean disregarding new treaties, for example. through the European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. the Council of Europe. We are then in a problematic area, because do we, in fact, believe that we should be able to have an institute that has the opportunity to set aside our connection to new decisions or new treaties in the European Convention on Human Rights? Let me just take an example. Two years ago, the Stortinget adopted the so-called Istanbul Convention, which is a European Council Convention, which deals with various measures to protect women from violence and rape. As a result of the ratification in Stortinget, Norway committed itself to it, but it was almost automatically incorporated, as was the case with an EU directive, because it had been worked through the Council of Europe. My question goes to the author of the motion for a resolution: is it possible to imagine that a minority of hundreds of thousands of middle-aged men are taking the initiative in putting the Istanbul Convention, which is a new treaty, into a referendum and thus in doubt about Norway's obligations to protect women from violence and rape? That would be the consequence of such a proposal, precisely because this minority, which is defined as one hundred thousand, is definitely not a representative sample, but in reality can be anyone, and can be a campaign based on some particular interest. So it's important that we get a closer look at the international legal consequences of this proposal. I am personally most concerned that this proposal should not affect Norway’s obligations in the field of human rights – therefore also proposal No. 3, that we have to look at the international and human rights consequences of that. Part of the proposal on minority initiatives: an initiative taken by hundreds of thousands of people in Norway applies under 1 pst. by the persons entitled to vote in Norway. We need to discuss whether we think it is good democracy to organise a type of campaign and to mobilise hundreds of thousands of people for such an initiative. I don't think it's completely unproblematic, and in line with what the Supreme Court said, that number is a little constructed. We have to discuss whether we think that might be right. Let's say, once again, that the Council of Europe is introducing a new convention in the EMC, which is about, for example, methotrexate, which is about banning various forms of harassment of women. This is introduced as a new article in the EMC – it is not unlikely that it will come. Then a group in Norway can take an initiative and put this proposal to a referendum, and there may be a non-representative group, for example, once again, of middle-aged men, who can put forward this proposal to withdraw Norway from the part of the EMK dealing with this methotrexate proposal. I think that in this case it would be very problematic and also send very demanding signals to the Council of Europe and those who sit and manage the EMK, about what commitments Norway wants to take on in this regard. Total – SV supports the intention of the proposal by Lundtigen and Toppe. We think it is important to explore new forms of direct democracy through referendums. That's good. However, the proposal is somewhat unfinished and lacks a well-thought-out assessment of its impact, especially in three areas. One is constitutional, which goes on how this proposal would distort the balance of power between existing state powers. The proposal also lacks clarification of the implications of international law. How will this proposal be linked to Norway’s international obligations, and how will it be used, possibly abused, to withdraw Norway from various human rights obligations? The third is linked to the minority initiative. We need to look at the design of democracy at this very moment, so that we ensure that not a very small representative group can take the initiative, for example. withdrawing Norway from its essential human rights obligations. However, we will support the proposal, we will support the proposal of the Central Party, but on the condition that an investigation is carried out, so that all of these aspects I have addressed are examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e798	As I said in my introduction, I support the SV's proposal for an investigation. What we experience in society in general and also here in the hall is a growing understanding and respect for what we are discussing. There's a flow that sees that there's a need to complete the system we have. I'm the first to admit what the representative Petter Eide said, that the issue of a binding referendum institute and the relationship to the balance of power is a very demanding one. That is why, in my introduction, I also said that the result of the vote may be mandatory on the basis of the decision of the Storting, i.e. clarification of the rules of procedure for the case. It is obvious that the Central Party has been the most intrusive in view of what we are talking about here of treaties, EU/EEA treaties. But it is also clear, as the representative Eide said, that human rights issues are also highly topical – and very demanding. It is said here from the representative, Eide, that such a referendum institute could mean that a person is at risk from the Norwegian authorities taking decisions that are problematic in view of the human rights situation. Well, that's part of what you're going to try to prevent through an informed debate and thus get a sense of community involvement on such essential issues in a completely different way from what we're experiencing today. It is a very small group of people who are currently taking part in such discussions and are aware of the obligations and consequences of such treaties and agreements. I would like to say in the name of democracy that what we are talking about here with this initiative – a referendum initiative – will help to do something about this, so that we get a quality assurance of the decisions that are taken. As for the last point that was mentioned, there could be a small representative group that comes up with this, one comes back to the group that I am representing, that is middle-aged men, that there is a group that there is something special about, and that is well. There's probably something special about most groups, but there's something particularly negative about middle-aged men. I've said it before outside this pulpit, and I'm actually inspired to say it from here, too, that it may be that middle-aged men have experience, and that it may be beneficial in some situations that you have experience. It may also be that middle-aged men dare to stand up to elites and individuals to a greater extent than younger persons. This applies to both women and men. But the point was that a small group is not representative. No well, but that's what's at the heart of the matter, that when there's a loud, not representative small group that requires such a case, that group will get its correction through the vote result. This is democracy at its core.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e809	In addition to the rapporteur's summarising remarks, I would just like to say that one of the reasons why this debate has not included anything in particular with contributions from those who are firm on the scheme as it stands, i.e. our governance system, may be that the proposal does not seem to have any particular ups and downs. Nevertheless, since some of the debates have focused on all of these imaginary benefits of challenging the representative system, which the proposals open to, I would say that historically, referendums have been clearly on the collision course with the representative system. We even have ghastly examples that referendums have just been used to legitimize the ability of authoritarian powers to rule outside or across democratic institutions — or even to overthrow them. That should actually worry the proposers a lot more. In fact, rather than a large and comprehensive investigation that some people are calling for, history books should look at how referendums have actually been used on a broad front to support mood waves used by a propaganda apparatus for the benefit of authoritarian persons who have subsequently also abolished any institutional democratic form of government. We also note that the more these ideas develop in the Chamber here, the more we have to consider what types of issues, who could potentially constitute these groups of initiatives, etc., we also see what kind of wildness we are moving into. This is more of a marker to say that the reason why we don't engage on a broad front against this is that it has poor prospects for adoption, but I also want to make a strong reservation against the whole idea in the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e816	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e833	We have to consider a proposal to amend the second sentence of Section 49 of the Constitution. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Delegation and further delegation of legislative power may be granted to Norwegian public bodies.’;» It is only a minority, represented by the Central Party, who recommend that the proposal be accepted. I would like to assume that after a discussion in the Committee, a unanimous committee asked the Prime Minister to explain the regulations adopted by non-ministerial bodies. On the basis of that, that part of the proposal is one of the reasons why attention should be paid, not necessarily through a constitutional change, but by ensuring that the part of the design of something that actually gets the force of law is exercised by non-political voters. What turned out when we had this case for treatment with us was among other things. that it took a very long time for the Prime Minister to be able to answer, simply because there was a lot of information and many places to get information. I think it is an overall committee which agrees that this is a cross of thought, which can, to a large extent, also be the subject of the next matter, which is about the protocols of the Council of State, where the Storing can also control the enforcement of the rules of government. There's reason to pay attention to. There's reason to pay attention to this when, as big-time representatives, we get questions out there in reality, like, how in the world could you have thought about this? There's a lot of examples that we don't care about, because there's some regulation that's designed very far from the government offices sometimes. So there's reason to keep this in focus. Let me add: when we got that list, most of the regulations were completely unproblematic in a democratic and political sense, for many technicalities, for example. The possibility for the Directorate of Fisheries to lay down rules for cod and other fisheries, i.e. technical matters regulated by regulations. This is what we must have in our society, but at the same time we must have the opportunity to have democratic control that those regulations are based on political decisions and have the necessary legal support – just so it is said. Nevertheless, when there is a clear majority against accepting the proposal, I think that for most people it is based on, among other things. some of the examples referred to by the proposers. ISO certification is one example. In particular, there should be no possibility for international bodies to establish common standards for, for example: Europe – I think that’s where some of the basis for the proposal lies, and the ISO standard is mentioned as an example – yes, then we’ll think about it very well. Just because we have the ability through international work to have quality standards that certify the environmental activities of enterprises through ISO standards or other parts of the diverse ISO standard system, we actually see it as a good thing. If I wanted to buy a lamp in Sweden, I can check the IP standard that the lamp has, because I know that one has the same IP standard. That's an advantage. These are just a few small, concrete examples that we have in some contexts, for example. in order to ensure the information needs and the quality of the goods purchased by customers, it is necessary to have that type of international agreement. And then, finally, I would like to add: it seems a little bit like this proposal is intended to put a stop to or make international cooperation difficult. My opinion is that we are living in a time when there is no need for less international cooperation. Not least a country such as Norway, which is highly dependent on being able to sell out of the country, has a great advantage of having standardised descriptions of its products, which allow them to be available on markets outside Norway. It is therefore a clear majority in the Committee that recommends that the proposal be rejected. I expect that the minority sails justify their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e853	I refer you to the first post from the head of the committee. It has been said that the majority in the Committee understands the concern of the increasing delegation of powers that one has, and then tries to create some challenges that we need to have European cooperation and international cooperation. It is clear that we are going to have international cooperation, but the question is who is going to adopt the Norwegian laws. I see that the majority in the committee think it's a problem that there's an ever-increasing delegation to the lower level, but as in the case of state secretaries, sees a challenge, but will not do anything about it. That's what's bad. For the Central Party, the grounds for the proposal are two-part. First, the proposed Appendix codifies a long-established practice. Despite the original thirds of power, the King and the government are assigned tasks that are materially legislating. Delegation of legislative competence, which was initially limited to supplementary rules and procedural rules, has gradually been extended to material legislation. Instead of the fact that the Stortinget adopted a concrete and substantive content in Norwegian legal rules, one of them was increasingly left to the King and government. This is a democratic challenge. More dubiously legal is the delegation of legislative authority from the EEA to the EU. Professor Frede Castberg has said this: ‘The rules governing the delegation of legislative powers to the King or the administrative authority of the King to subordinate administrative bodies shall not apply in any way to the issue of «transfer» of powers to international bodies.’ [[Governments]] It's from Investigations, etc. on the European Economic Community in relation to the Norwegian Constitution’, Document No. 3 for 1961-1962. The centre party supports the basic bill: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 49 shall be replaced by the following: Delegation and further delegation of legislative power may take place to Norwegian public bodies. – The legislative power may be delegated and sub-delegated to Norwegian public bodies. Paragraph 49, first paragraph, the current second sentence shall become the third sentence.’ I'm taking up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e884	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e889	This proposal is interesting to discuss, as it also raises important issues of principle related to Norway’s relationship with other countries. The proposal is therefore about limiting the delegation of legislative power to non-Norwegian public bodies. The proposal is intended, as I read it, to limit the influence of EU and EEA Directives on Norway. We understand the concern that the legislative power has been reduced by the fact that the Storting has delegated more powers to the government and to private bodies as it stands, and also to international actors. We also support the Centre Party in a number of issues concerning the automation of EU directives and the way in which this is handled, to which we are also very critical, and that Norway has little influence on the laws that will apply to Norway through this. It is particularly related to Norwegian working life. At the same time, we believe that the proposal has some pitfalls, and that is why we are not going to support it. We have to think a little bit big. We must assume that the Central Party thinks in principle when they make such a proposal, in that this proposal they think is right for Norway, must also be right for all other countries. When making a proposal relating to Norwegian relations with other countries, it must be possible for all other countries in Europe and in the world to also feel that it is right for them that it is the national State that has legislative power, while the legislative power of international bodies must be greatly reduced. That must be the consequence of this. It is a trend in many countries at present, especially in the Council of Europe, that we want to weaken the importance of international agreements, that we want to weaken commitments towards international conventions, and that many question the importance of international agreements. With this proposal, given that other countries also do what is in the proposal, what kind of world do we get? What I'm most concerned about is that we get a world where the Convention obligations towards democracy and human rights will be undermined internationally. It is particularly worrying about the European Convention on Human Rights, because it has actually been seen that supranational laws make countries accountable to each other in the area of human rights, and it is actually about the protection of individuals. This proposal would imply that the legislative power to take such decisions should be primarily in Norway and not be linked to what is being developed by the Council of Europe and the EMC system. In a sort of eagerness to reduce transnationality and to take more national control of the legislative power of Norway, this proposal also weakens international obligations and the protection of individuals around the world. Here it will play a concrete role so that with this proposal will, for example: The legislative competence of the Council of Europe is weakened because it is a legislative competence which is binding on Norway. I am concerned that when we are going to design our constitution, we must also have an international perspective. It's getting a little too clever to just look at them – I kept saying – relatively narrow Norwegian interests. We're actually going to participate in a world where the major challenges require international solutions, and then we can't design our constitution in a vacuum just based on what is Norwegian interest. It is equivalent in the climate field. In future, we, SV, want climate agreements that are internationally agreed and that also become legally binding. That way we can get to the green shift. This proposal by the Central Party will prevent us from developing such agreements in the future. This is being discussed in very many countries. It will be discussed, inter alia: how aspects of the Paris Agreement can be made legally binding on the Convention partners and it is clear that doing just that would be a future way to address the global climate challenge. This proposal by the Centre Party also partially extends during such development. I think it is essential that we distinguish between good and bad supranationality. SV is not in principle against supranationality. We are not against the Norwegian self-determination being forced to give way through international agreements, because it is indeed international and global agreements that must stand by if we have agreed to this. Of course, we are critical of a number of areas of supranationality represented by the EU and the EEA. That is where we fully agree with the Center Party. But we applaud and believe that this is a good supranationality, like, for example. The Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights represent. It's a good supranationality that we don't want in any way to be weakened by additions or changes to our constitution. This type of proposal to draw legislative competences to national bodies and to weaken the legislative competence of international bodies is a recipe for more nationalism. There is a recipe for less international cooperation, and in an unequal perspective, differences between countries will increase — and perhaps also differences in countries. I would also like to believe – if we pull the reflection a little further – that security policy is a poor solution because peace and conflict resolution require strong bilateral and multilateral relations. This proposal will undermine it precisely because it stresses that legislative competence should be taken into account in national bodies and that less emphasis should be placed on the development of common standards and common legislation in international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e914	I fully agree with many aspects of this proposal. But what is the main point of the proposal is what it says: ‘Delegation and further delegation of legislative power may be granted to Norwegian public bodies.’;» Why is it so central? Well, because what has a direct influence on businesses and people in Norway, who decide who they are – what is right, what is wrong, how to act in trade, what is bad and what is bad in all areas of society – are issues that should be the responsibility of those who are representatives of the public and who get their message from the Stortinget. Since this proposal promotes more nationalism, I fundamentally disagree. What is at the heart of the proposers – and I am one of them – is the slogan that I have often argued, namely that Norway is a different country that is not seaworthy enough. What is the nucleus of this different country? Well, it's a people's government to ensure that one takes care of the broad, human relationships, and that does not add up to a nationalism that the representative Petter Eide presented in a negative way, which I may understand from historical experience. But it is not in the tradition that this proposal has been promoted. It has been promoted in the Norwegian tradition — another country that is not seaworthy enough. It is further said by the representative Eide that it extends bones under supranationality. No, it doesn't spread under any supranationality. It merely clarifies that to the extent that transnationality is to apply in Norway, it shall be the result of decisions taken by Norwegian public bodies under instructions from the Stortinget. The representative, Eide, further stated that the proposal gives the impression that what is right for Norway should be right for all other countries. No, that's not what's in it. It is – as I have now tried to say – the People's Government that is crucial, and that should be the basis here. It is now the case that, as we know it in Norway, the National Government is linked to the nation state. I feel that a lot of the discussion here in this room is going on that there is something you will not fully absorb. It's given the impression that we have a government outside the nation state. Some had a vision of the establishment of a People's Rule within what was the European Union, assuming that it would become a nation state. Yeah, well, it hasn't happened, so we don't have the rule of people in Europe in any context other than the context of the nation state, and that's the tradition we're in. We're talking about international affairs here. It is clarified in the proposal how important it is. And we're saying that here's one at the heart of the matter. The reason why this is at the heart of the matter is that an increasing flow of EU directives and regulations becomes part of Norwegian law through the EEA Agreement, which requires rapid implementation in Norway. The setting ends at: «At the same time, the public is becoming less aware of what is really «Norwegian law», leading to impaired law enforcement.» I would like to say that the legal scandal in Nav is an example of some of the dilemmas and problems we are facing, namely that we have a right that is valid for Norway, whether the law is contrary to what is written in Norwegian right in the area, which leads to huge complications throughout our social machinery. So it's most essential to get a clarification and a clarification of this. The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, had an interesting post in which he said that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had asked for an overview of the regulations adopted by others than the Ministry. There's some of the nucleus of this. We see that in the field of decision-making or in practice in the Norwegian society that – when a question is asked who it is that has adopted this which directly affects the behaviour of citizens and businesses – has not been adopted by bodies that come under what we call in the proposal ‘Norwegian public bodies’. I can draw up more examples than what has been mentioned about organic farming. One may highlight the issue of the sale of timber in Norway today. Today, there is legislation on what can be sold by timber in Norway as one can wonder where it comes from and which has the direct consequence that if one does not come under that legislation, one simply does not sell timber in Norway. That legislation has enormous economic significance, a legislation that, as far as I am aware, has not been within this hall or its underlying bodies. The important thing is that we get this clarification. I do not think it should be taken to be anything more than what it says, namely that ‘[d]allegation and further delegation of legislative power can take place to Norwegian public bodies’. We must then have faith that we are able to organise our social life in such a way that it becomes clear that the decisions that have direct implications for Norwegian people, Norwegian companies or Norwegian society must have their responsibilities linked to those who represent the community and represent the Storting in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e946	This debate raises a very important and interesting debate on the legislative powers to be exercised within the nation state, and what legislative powers we believe are, in principle, right for us to adopt in a larger international community. Both the SV and the Central Party are opposed to Norwegian membership of the EU, but it does not have to mean, at least not from the SV, that we oppose the fact that in some areas we are subject to some supranational obligations, in order to find solutions to the challenges facing both Norway and the world. Of course, I fully agree that, primarily, legislative competence should lie with the Norwegian Parliament, but that does not mean that we should reject the fact that international bodies can have legislative powers that are also applicable to Norway. As everyone in this room knows, I am particularly concerned about human rights obligations. In fact, we have both a right and a duty to guarantee human rights also for people outside Norway. The Convention obligations are set out in such a way that when one is part of an international Convention on Human Rights or has acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights, Norway also has an obligation to ensure that other countries discharge their obligations. That means we have to work in such a way that these obligations are not undermined. In reading this proposal, there is a political and historical context. The historical context, the international context, is that this proposal is being promoted at the same time as in a number of countries in Europe, but also in countries outside Europe – Brazil, the Philippines, the United States, Russia, Turkey – that countries are increasingly withdrawing from international commitments. They use formal arguments to link more and more legislative competences to their own country, and they try to avoid as much as possible the international obligations they have. Unfortunately, it is a challenge we have. Six months ago, a Presidency of the Council of Europe – which was Denmark at the time – came with what they called the Copenhagen Declaration. It was just about this, and it was even a Presidency of the Council of Europe. They wanted to withdraw their legislative powers from the Council of Europe to the national State in a number of areas. Fortunately, in the Council of Europe — and stopped — it was hard hit down, but it illustrates a trend. It also illustrates the context in which the proposal for the Central Party must be read. That's why I reacted to this. I think it is unfortunate that we stress here that, through the Constitution, we should again stress that legislative competence should be in a Norwegian public body – that is a matter of course. But the signal it gives, as we read the setting, is that less should be bound by the processes that take place in international conventions, which will then become legally binding on Norway. I stress that this proposal is unfortunate. It rejects any form of supranationality. It gives a signal that any kind of supranationality is wrong. I stress that if the centre party is to be basically tidy in this, they must actually believe that this type of proposal should also be relevant to other countries. If all countries do what the Central Party here advises that Norway should do, we will have a Europe where countries cooperate less, and much less take responsibility for European citizens, for example. in the field of human rights, and there is a very unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e965	I appreciate the opinions of the representative, Petter Eide, and I agree that it is a fact that the proposal comes now when there is a situation with a political, historical context where, at the same time, a number of countries are increasingly withdrawing from international commitments. I agree with that, and this is a major problem. It's very unfortunate. But there are different ways of looking at that reality. We agree that it's unfortunate, and then the next question is: what kind of forces are there, what kind of movements, what kind of political discussion or lack of what brings this out? What is the reason why we get this kind of development? In my opinion, this is the important question here. I hope the representative has respect for the views of the Central Party, that Norway is different and that it is not seaworthy. The proposal does not go against supranationality, but the supranational decisions that we have, which we must have, and which we must certainly have more of in many areas, must be anchored in Norwegian democracy. If one doesn't manage to anchor it, if one doesn't manage to get a conversation, a discussion, a people's information on these questions, then the demanding questions will not be anchored in such a way that one has the strength to resist the movements that want a development representative Petter Eide and I agree that is wrong. That's what's at the core. So here we want democracy to be strengthened. But what's underlying here is the view of the nation state and the role of the nation state. The lot of the centre is a member of the national State. We have not invented anything better as a framework for democracy. We must then understand the responsibility of the nation-state to ensure that we get institutions, legislation, laws and attitudes on international issues so that those who are citizens of the different nation-states can act in such a way as to safeguard their nation-state, but also the large community. What I think is that the proposal we have made here is good for Norway, it is good for other nation states, and that is good for international cooperation, because it anchors the international decisions that have a great impact on society, in the democratic forums following a political democratic debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e976	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e993	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1010	In a letter dated 19 June 2019 to the Presidency, the Ombudsman for the administration requested a derogation from certain provisions of the Data Protection Act. This message follows as an attachment to the setting today. In April 2019, the Supervisory Committee gave its opinion on the Civil Ombudsman’s working group report on amendments to the Civil Ombudsman Act and Document 19 for 2017-2018, paragraph 6 of the Report to the Presidentship of the Stortinge from selections set up to assess the process and the eligibility of members of the committees, selections and names appointed by the Stortinget, Innst. 223 S for 2018–2019. The Committee asked the Presidency of the Grand Duchy at that time to draw up a new proposal for the Civil Ombudsman's Law, with the leaders in the Committee's position. The Committee's comments are as follows: ‘It should also be assessed whether there is a need for the Ombudsman to obtain some exemptions from the Data Protection Act.’.» As part of its mandate, the Committee to examine the control function of the Grand Duchy has been given the opportunity to review the legislation of the Civil Ombudsman, including: preparing draft new Civil Ombudsman Act. The committee shall deliver its report by 1 February 2021. But the Civil Ombudsman wrote in his letter of 19 June last year that it will be too long to wait with the requested exceptions until a new Ombudsman's law is in place. The Ombudsman therefore asks for some exceptions to the law now, including: that the data supervision is not subject to supervision of the Ombudsman. However, the Committee considers it most appropriate that these issues should be considered in the context of the drafting of a new law and that we should be able to see it as a whole. We therefore believe that the proposal for a new Civil Ombudsman Act will be sent at wide consultation, and we therefore recommend that the letter we are now examining from the Ombudsman on exceptions to certain provisions of the Data Protection Act be followed up as part of the selection when they are considering the control function of the Stortinge. Otherwise, the Committee also notes – and we write that in our position – that the Ombudsman did not send a hearing response when the new personal data regulations were implemented. Therefore, we think that the time aspect of the case is good enough, and that the sample will best be able to see this in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1026	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1045	The size is then ready to go to voting. Case No. 1 has already been treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1071	During the debate Eva Kristin Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:12 [[Electoral system]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1125	During the debate Hanne Dyveke Søttar put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and independent representative Ulf Leirstein. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:38 [[nationals shall not be taken into account in the distribution of mandates to the Stortinget]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1147	As a result of the vote on proposal No. The Committee's recommendation is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1183	All parties have announced their support for the suspension. The President will let the vote take place on roll call. The plug starts with representative No. 1 from the South Trendelag, Trond Giske. He's not here, and we're starting with agent number 2, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland. Those who vote in favour of the Committee's position shall reply yes. Those who vote against answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1195	The 153 representatives who voted in favour of the draft Constitution were: Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Eva Kristian Willow, Djød, Djød, Djød, Djød, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djödj, Djöd, Djödj, Djöd, Djödj, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Djöd, Dj, Djöd, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, Dj, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D, D,
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1200	The following 16 representatives were absent: Trond Giske, Jorod Asphjell and Arild Grande [[forf.]] [[forf.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1205	The Committee has thus been set up by a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1217	During the debate Hanne Dyveke Søttar put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and independent representative Ulf Leirstein. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:40 [[ban on the appointment of depositors as State Secretaries]] The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1241	The Progress Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, Red and independent representative Ulf Leirstein have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1253	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1258	Neither did mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1263	Since there were several votes that were not registered, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1282	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and independent representative Ulf Leirstein, the proposals No 2 and 3, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The European Council calls on the Presidency to carry out an investigation into opportunities and challenges related to different forms of the introduction of binding referendums in Norway, including forms of public and minority right of initiative. In particular, it is requested to assess the constitutional, international and human rights consequences.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1308	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:43 [[people's vote]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1325	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and independent representative Ulf Leirstein. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:14 [[on referendum]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1357	As a result of the voting on the proposals No. 2 and No 1 shall not vote on the recommendation for I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1369	During the debate, Nils T. Bjørke put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 12:44 [[Delegation]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1393	As a result of the vote on proposal No. The Committee's recommendation is rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-07.ana.ud397e1620	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
