ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e30	The called alternate for Nordland, Kjell-Idar Juvik, is now taking the seat. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e49	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. Click to close the curve The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. Click to close the curve We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e58	An orderly working life is a good thing for people at work, and it is a competitive advantage and really the core of the Norwegian model. Norwegian wage and working conditions are under pressure in many industries. We hear about renting, wage dumping, pay theft and unsafe contracts as widespread phenomena in parts of the economy. It is a threat to people at work, but it is also a threat to a working life that is the foundation of the Norwegian model, the basis of productivity, the economy and the community and new jobs. Click to close the curve A theme that has been up for many years, but for which this government has shown considerable little interest, is the pay and working conditions of seafarers in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian pedestals. Many vessels sailing on the Norwegian seas and on missions along the coast of Norway today have foreign seafarers on wages and salaries that cannot survive in Norway. We hear about wages in some cases down to NOK 30-40 per hour, also on ships working between Norwegian ports. One of the consequences of this is that the proportion of Norwegian seafarers, the Norwegians working on ships, is falling — at freight rates it has fallen from 60 to 70 pst. until about 20 pst. of 15 years. Click to close the So the question is, can we do something about it? The government has said several times that we can't. Two independent investigations, one of which has been ordered by the government, have now shown that it is possible to demand Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and Norwegian seas. Yesterday we also received a concrete bill, drawn up by the Nordic Institute of Maritime Law, on how this can be done. We have room for action, we have facts. The Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, has made a proposal to set up a Joint Committee to come up with concrete solutions and legislative proposals in this area. Will the Prime Minister make sure to set up such a selection to ensure justice for the seafarers who work with us and for us? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e67	It is true that the government has reduced a sample and was asked to investigate the issue of pay and working conditions on board non-resident ships in Norwegian waters and on a Norwegian base. It is an investigation carried out by Wikborg Rein and Oslo Economics, which were handed over last year and which has been out for consultation, and where there are also views from the hearing bodies, such as the Court of Justice. on the question of whether EEA access is as wide as it is considered to be in this investigation. But that's one thing we keep working on. Among the things we're doing is having close dialogue with the partners in the industry. We have received detailed input from both sides, and I know that the Minister of Industry will also have a meeting with the parties on this particular matter on February 17, right around the corner. In the autumn, the government will present a major communication on maritime policy which will also address the issues of pay and working conditions on ships in Norwegian sea areas. Click to close the curve It is true that this case involves quite a number of different balances, legal and industrial policy. It also requires careful assessments in the future. So we have not taken a decision on this question, but we are in close contact with the parties and will return to Stortinget in the notified Storing Message. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e74	I think this is an expression of incredible exasperation. It was a theme that was up in 2014–2015, Norwegian youth along the coast that sees the sea as its potential job, Norwegian seafarers as a backbone in our maritime industry. Now we see in a very important part that is not about international shipping, but when shipping between Norwegian ports, working in Norway, foreigners arrive at 30-40 kroner per hour. It is a hollowing out of a very important part of our working life, and the government is investigating and going to have meetings and assesses. One of the arguments was that nothing can be done about it in the EEA. Other non-EEA countries, similar to Norway, e.g. Canada has introduced such requirements. Now reports, two dependents, one ordered by the government, show that it is possible to do this within the EEA – ensure that Norwegians can continue to work in this industry. And the Prime Minister continues to be balanced. What has she done in these years when this case in the proportion of Norwegians working in this industry has happened, and does she really have the ambition to introduce Norwegian pay and working conditions? Is that her goal? Can she answer yes or no? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e79	I assume that the representative Gahr Støre, as former foreign minister, is aware that Canada is not part of the EEA Agreement. So they have not committed themselves to the four freedoms – nor do they have a free trade agreement with the EU, which means that the regulation that we are subject to and must adapt to does not necessarily apply to them. So even if other countries have different rules, they also have less opportunities for active participation. I've just gone through what we've done. We have been asked this question. It's been at the hearing. Substantial consultation opinions have been received on issues such as whether there is an equal amount of implementation in this area. I have to admit that if that's how we put down too many samples and investigate too much and do too little, then the main question of the representative was the question of setting up a new sample. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e84	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e89	It is in order to lay down the rules to be applied in this part of Norwegian working life as otherwise. In fact, I know – not just from my time as Minister of Foreign Affairs, but from my time as a student – that Canada is not part of the EU. But Canada is a country that has ensured that this is true and works in Canada. And now the investigations requested by the Prime Minister have shown that there is an opportunity within the EEA. Are we going to use this space of action, or are we going to leave it? Are we supposed to be passive about that? Click to close the curve Let me expand the question. What is the message the Prime Minister has for these young people who sit and assess: Is shipping, which is growing because the sea is growing, an industry we're going to bet on? Could there be Norwegian pay and work conditions there, as it is on land? Or do we have to assume that this is an area where we are now going to open up to unworthy conditions – a ship that goes in and out with employees to NOK 30 per hour? Click to close the curve I ask again: is it the Prime Minister's ambition, if she gets it through listening to the hearings, that there should be Norwegian pay and working conditions in this part of the world of work? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e98	The government has not taken a decision on these issues, because we now have a review of the hearing opinions. We're going to have a meeting with the parties, and we're going to get a good look at this. Click to close the curve My appeal is that yes, Norwegian youth should apply to maritime industries. Today, in fact, there is a shortage of Norwegian youth who are applying for maritime industries, a shortage of people in that industry. So there are job opportunities in it. When it comes to whether or not to introduce these rules, we need to have a clear legal basis that we trust will stick to. That's point one. The second point is that we have to be sure that it does not mean that our competitiveness is getting significantly worse and therefore the activity is weakening. Click to close the curve My wish is that all Nordics should have an opportunity to get good working and pay conditions in the jobs they have, and then we have international frameworks to deal with. So the government is working on that. We'll come back to the conclusions of that work when we're done with the review. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e107	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e112	I think this is actually a very eye-catching answer, but it's clarifying. The Prime Minister is unable to say that there is an ambition that Norwegian wage and working conditions will apply in this sector in growth. The Prime Minister is in charge of an international maritime panel, and I commend her for that. We are both engaged in marine industries – sea wind, new farming, transport, maritime activities, capture and storage of CO 2 – there are great opportunities. Click to close the curve She wants Norwegian youth to look at jobs in this area. She encourages them to do that. But I don't reproach an 18-year-old who says that she or he won't lay his future somewhere with an hourly salary of NOK 30-40. That youth should meet a government that says we can develop those opportunities within that space of action. Is it going to be too expensive? They also said that when the oil industry came to the West in the 1970s, health, environment and safety are too expensive. Norwegian trade union movement worked out the rules that made us have a highly productive, profitable sector. It is clear that it is possible to develop a profitable sector in this area as well. There's no reason why we're going to make a social dumping sector out of the speed that goes along the country. Click to close the curve This conclusion must end with Norway trying to do this and with a proposal that shows how this can be done. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e125	There is no doubt that we have a wish that Norwegian boats should be as much as possible. This is also one of the reasons why we have now improved the reimbursement system, and that the supply boats are inside these areas to ensure that we actually have competitive conditions for the industry, including for Norwegian jobs. Click to close the curve I understand that it is almost – what was the representative Gahr Støre said it was – alarming that we are still working to be sure that our room of action is there, and that we are not posturing Norwegian businessmen to experience that they are getting an EEA judgment against them. We actually have to do that job. Click to close the curve I have also said that the Stortinget will have an opportunity to discuss this widely when we come back with the notification of maritime industries, where we have already announced that the working conditions of the maritime vessels on the base will be among the issues that will be discussed in the notification when we have completed the decisions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e134	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e139	These reports have shown that the room of action is there, so now there must be action that comes to fill the room, to say it that way, and I hope so. Click to close the curve There's several things along the coast that I'll bring up here. The question of rental: it is a scheme designed to avoid peaks. They are too along the coast and on the yards, but now we often see that renting becomes part of the normal, ordinary operation. The government objected to a curtailment of rentals. The Prime Minister thought it was one of her greatest defeats that we got tightened up at the rent. What's happening now is that there's a weak follow-up to those rules. The prevention and supervision of social dumping by the Labour Inspectorate is the subject of cut-off policy. From several industries along the coast, e.g. from Stord, we hear that there are far more temporary workers than permanent workers at a time when Norway needs more skilled workers, more young people who choose occupations in the exciting subjects offered by the coast. Click to close the curve Why does the government not want to help clean up working life and ensure that workers are given security, that skilled workers are given jobs, that apprentices have a future, and that young people can assume that Norwegian pay and working conditions apply? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e148	The representative Gahr Støre's description of what I have said and done is a little bit crooked. What the government did was suggest that we should have restrictions on rentals where it was documented in the market that it was a challenge – construction, construction, Oslo and Akershus. So Stortinget decided to ban a wide range of rentals without any evidence that there was a major problem in many other places. At the same time, it's a challenge, because a lot of parts of our business life have always had a great deal of rent to take tops, not least the yard industry. Click to close the curve I know Great well. I've been there many times. Every time there's been a tree and a top, there's been a lot of rent on Stord because you couldn't have sustainability at that yard over a long, long time if you were to fill up with fixed positions to take the tops. That's why we have companies that have companies out there, like in Romania, who bring some of their employees from Romania to Norway to take these peaks – because they've managed to create competitiveness. We are concerned that we actually have these jobs at the end of Norway, and then we have to make sure that there is competitiveness for these industries. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e155	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e160	Having orderly conditions at sea and what we're going to live off from the sea is crucial if we're going to grow. We like to refer to Norway as the world’s leading maritime nation – and we should be. Right now it's golden time at sea. Steps are in place, and there is a great need for additional labour. In November, the a-krim centre in Nordland revealed grotesque conditions in the Norwegian fishing industry: black work, threats, illegal housing, indication of trafficking in human beings – in Norway in 2019. It's unworthy. It is also the case that the welfare and standard of living in Eastern Europe is increasing. We depend on the workforce from there, but: Why would anyone come to Norway and work to create values for us if this is what they're meeting with? The Workers' Party has proposed a package of measures. The government has rejected that we need. My question is, what is the government's immediate action to clean up these conditions? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e165	I am pleased that this representative from the Workers' Party says that we are dependent on rentals from other countries in order to be able, for example. Take peaks during fishing, because that's what's below when you say you're dependent on this workforce. Click to close the curve What's going to happen is that all of this is going to be neat. What's good is that the work-life crime centres, where six out of seven have been set up under this government, function in such a way that this kind of exploitation can be reduced. That's why we're dedicated to doing a job that's good both for the police and from economic supervision, and that helps us to discover it. And we've been especially busy working to make sure that we follow up these issues, even beyond the borders of the country. That is why we have concluded agreements with labour supervision and labour market authorities in many other countries. That is why we have taken the initiative of the European Commission to ensure that in the development of the whole process of preventing labour-related crime, practical cooperation between countries must be important, because we must also enter the areas of origin. That is why we have strengthened the labour-criminal centres financially, in order to provide more supervision. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e172	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e177	In any case, it's not good enough, and the goal must be to limit rentals. That we depend on it because we have variations, especially when it comes to a resource like fish, that's the way it is. But the goal is to create more full-year jobs, full-year industry, so you become less dependent on rent. One of the measures proposed by the Labour Party is: to limit rentals. Then we have to follow up with other policies, and unfortunately this government has come up with the opposite policy, which even the NHO, Seafood Norway, says will increase the need for renting. I'm sorry. In addition, when we have these conditions – 40 kroner an hour, high rent – we also overwhelm the raw material. That's because you can also underpaid employees. It's distorting. It does not contribute to any more industry. But the Prime Minister seems reasonably satisfied with what you do, so my question is: do we have enough resources and measures, do we have enough punishment, is the high enough today as it is today? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e182	The feedback we are now receiving is that the risk of being taken is perceived to be significantly higher, and it is believed that the prevalence of work-life crime is decreasing rather than increasing. These are the reports that come back, because we have greater and more powerful supervision. The fact that we carry out supervision together – that we follow up both the economic and the work environment aspects – makes it possible to address quite major issues, but it is also demanding. It's possible we need more resources every year in the future, because we've done that in the years behind us. We have strengthened the supervisory authorities every year with more money, just in order to bring down the crime of working life. However, when the reports now say that the risk of being taken is felt to be greater, and that, therefore, the crime of working life goes down — or at least outside — and, at the same time, the attitude to buying black work in Norway has fallen considerably in recent years, and we should be happy that something good is happening. So there are seven work-life-criminal centers, and that's a big bet, and it seems that the activity is out of the way according to the reports that are coming. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e187	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e193	The fact that one has Norwegian seafarers is a basis for one to have a maritime nourishment in Norway. I believe that the vast majority of people believe that on the mainland of Norway the Norwegian model applies, and Norwegian pay and work conditions apply. Nor is it particularly controversial to say that Norwegian waters and Norwegian seabeds are part of Norway. Click to close the curve If we are to have Norwegian seafarers, we need Norwegian wage and working conditions. And a little independent of what has been said about room for action, it would have been useful to get a principle clarification from the government, and that is true: Does it mean that the Norwegian model and the requirement for Norwegian pay and working conditions apply to all of Norway, including Norwegian waters and Norwegian seas? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e200	We believe that it is important to offer good employment to all, and we believe that we should demand Norwegian employment and pay. But we also have to bring with us the international rules that are around. Click to close the curve Then we have to remember that we have a maritime sector in Norway where the main gravity of our maritime industry is not in Norwegian waters, it is outside Norwegian regions. That means that the main gravity of what we have of a very profitable industry has activity on boats that never go into Norway. Then it's important that we, as a country that is very dependent on getting very many of our high-skilled jobs related to the maritime sector, make sure that we have common international rules, and that we follow those rules. Norway has great interests in that we have raised the demands on pay and working conditions in general, on the environment and climate in general, on the global side, precisely because so much of the entire large and strong maritime cluster we have in Norway, is not aimed at Norwegian conditions, but is actually aimed at being a major carrier for the whole world. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e207	Let's move on to the next main question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e212	Last week the government announced enhanced climate goals under the Paris Agreement, and it did not know the consequences of what this costs. I don't think the Progress Party would be in on it, but you'll never know. Click to close the curve So I've seen that the government has tried to minimize this by saying yes, but here you have to distinguish between objectives and instruments. But it has to mean either that you can't take this goal seriously, or that you're willing by the government to use all the tools even if they're not socio-economically profitable. And on the question of why you haven't investigated and quality assured, Secretary of State Fischer: because we don't have a choice. To me, it sounds like a new principle, because I thought that climate action should also be investigated and prioritised. Click to close the curve Therefore, my questions become to the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister know what these strengthened commitments will cost? Does the Prime Minister know how much these reinforced commitments are going to reduce emissions by both home and outdoor? And does she know to what extent such measures can adversely affect Norwegian jobs? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e221	The message we had follows the line we've been on reporting measures based on our ambitions, and then we also make a good list of actions after that. There is nothing new in that we have proposed ambitions from the Norwegian authorities into the UN or into the major negotiations without ourselves having the piece of detail on which measures apply. Click to close the curve But this time we have presented a climate cure at the same time, which is about how to cut 50 pst. in the non-quota sector, with very many difficult and demanding cuts. Some of the follow-up we are making to Climate Action now is also to look at just now: Will climate change lead to leakages? If we do not get the full effect of the global solutions, we must have other measures. Click to close the curve What we have reported is that we have to have at least 50 pst, up to 55 pst, and then we have made it conditional on the EU going up to the same level in order to do so within the EU, using flexible mechanisms on what may be the distance between Norway's objectives and what is the EU's adopted target. Now everything suggests that the EU will end up at about the level we have reported, but it was important for some countries to go ahead in reporting targets in this round. Click to close the curve In this way, this comes entirely out of the government of the Right and the Advance Party when we promoted the joint implementation of our climate action with the EU towards the Stortinge, with the framework conditions in it. And it was a natural next step, which has also been part of what the government of the Right and the Advance Party did at the Paris meeting, to promote this five-year renewal of the measures to achieve the objectives that were. Click to close the curve So I think it's completely in line with both what we've negotiated and done in government over these six years, that we end up with the goal we have now. And then it's like the cost of not taking climate action for the longest time is intended to be greater than the cost of climate action. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e234	One of the differences was that when the Advance Party put in government, we were also willing to use the flexibility of the quota system, as the government has now said they should use as much as possible. Looking at climate change, there are many of the measures that are directly socio-economically unprofitable – as the report says. Click to close the curve I think the answer is quite alarming, because the Prime Minister does not know how much this bill is and a general principle has been to put the policy into practice. Then, at least in this context, you have had a great deal of pleasure in the investigation manual. So my question is, is it now that the Prime Minister is willing to apply an unknown billion bill to taxpayers and businesses? Or is this really just symbolism policy in order to be the first Western country to report enhanced targets, without being willing to say what price tag it has, and what consequences it has for taxpayers and businesses? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e241	It's absolutely right that the government is adding to what we agreed on at Granavolden. It's that we have an allowance related to the ETS, the EU ETS, which, if we don't reach the 2030 targets, can be used. The ambition and what we're going to plan for is that we can do our cuts without using that quota, but we have that security, and that's part of the deal we already have in place. Click to close the curve The second thing that also comes from Granavolden is the flexibility that can be possible if we fail to achieve our objectives, to go in cooperation with other countries to ensure that they finance emissions cuts in other countries, i.e. within the EU area, which overcomply with their mechanisms. All of the things that we agreed on when we were in government are still under there, but it's like the last resort, because what we're going to do first is we're going to do what we can do here. So it's like every climate action is going to be investigated after the investigation manual, and we're going to see that it's going to have total impact, not just national impact, on the actions we're implementing. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e248	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e253	State Secretary Fischer correctly states that it has not been necessary for the government to investigate or ensure quality, because this is clearly a measure that has been raised above all others, so there is no choice: does the Prime Minister think it is right that climate action should not be assessed or prioritised in line with everything else – new constructions, road projects and everything else that costs money in a state budget? Is this so much more important that you are willing to do anything to realize it, and thus disregard entirely normal mechanisms where quality assurance and impact assessments are made of the price tag of the different measures, and what impact is it having on both business and taxpayers? Click to close the curve I do not feel that the Prime Minister answers this question at all. I would very much like to hear if the Prime Minister believes that this is symbolism, or if she is willing to impose a billion dollar bill on taxpayers and businesses. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e260	Each of the actions that we are to implement will be examined following the investigation manual. It's going to be evaluated pro and counter how these are going to work, and then our job is to find a sum of such measures that help us actually reach the goals we've set. We know that with the measures we had in place before the year's government budget, the reduction in emissions in Norway will be about. 13 pst. That means we have a job to do to further reinforce this, but we also know that there is a lot of technology at the start-up stage. Click to close the curve And then there's also a bill for not doing anything, and we see that bill in the last few days. If we continue to get more wild weather – more rain, more race and more challenges related to it – all calculations will indicate that the cost of climate adaptation to a higher degree in the future will be higher than the cost of the measures we are now taking to get a world that does not have higher warming than 1.5 degrees. Then we have to take an initiative where we have our own efforts, too, in order to reduce emissions from Norway, in order to go ahead of other countries. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e267	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e273	Ambitiousness is good and good, but we must not forget, in the competition for who has the most ambitious goals, that it is the measures that actually give emission reductions. So far, this government has provided more ambition than measures, and I remind you once again that, if the government wanted to, we could get a CO 2 fund for business transport that had given large emissions reductions, as the industry has asked for. But the government refused, so I want to ask the Prime Minister another question. Click to close the curve In the summer, the government concluded an agreement with agriculture – as the only industry so far – on binding emission reductions by 2030. At the same time, the government has not set up any measures or funds to comply with the agreement. What are the measures that the government intends to propose to reduce emissions in agriculture? Can the Prime Minister here and now confirm that the government is distancing itself from the Climate Action proposal to reduce the active agricultural area in Norway by 1 million acres of cultivated land and the idea of 5,000 fewer farmers? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e283	Firstly, we have a fund to help transport cars and others in the market get subsidies and get it moved. We work a lot. We have a big fund in Norway. It's Enova. The government has made sure that the level of Enova has to double, every single year, to focus on the different areas to create new technologies. Within that we also have one related to business transport, so it's not that because you don't have the CO 2 fund the Workers' Party has proposed, we don't have a fund. We have measures, we have a lot, and we have contributed a lot more. In fact, there's now more money in Enova because we did what the Workers' Party wouldn't be involved in when we negotiated the climate agreement, namely to provide an Enova that was big enough to actually take the role they're taking today. Click to close the curve With regard to the question of saying yes or no to all the proposals in the Climate Action Plan, I intend to have one line in the future: not to answer yes or no to every proposal in the Climate Action Plan. Now it's at the hearing. It's for investigation. We have to look at other alternatives. The agricultural agreement is followed up every year in the negotiations. But that's important in terms of 5 billion. The kr-cuts, that the government is not going to find them. It is the farmers who have committed themselves, and the agricultural organisations who have committed themselves, to deliver 5 billion. kr i cut, because that is what they have received instead of taxes on CO 2 emissions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e296	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e301	The Prime Minister repeats in the Questionnaire what is also on the Granavolden platform: that the government should cut as much greenhouse gas emissions as possible. An important instrument for the government, it says in the Granavolden platform, is the polluter-pays principle. CO 2 pricing has an escalating plan for. It shall be increased annually. At the same time, the Granavolden platform shows that in terms of gas prices, they look at peace. This means that for the land sector that is most important for reducing emissions – road transport – the price has been met against the polluter-pays principle. My question is about the Prime Minister, now that the Progress Party has left the government and she is going to deliver a proposal for a government budget to the Stortinget, which will then be negotiated with the Progress Party as well, still believes that the petrol price is at peace with the expansion period. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e309	The area that now delivers the most reductions in emissions in Norway is just private cars. It does because we have other powerful tools to use the technology trail instead of punishing all people's private wallets associated with this. So we're giving great incentives to shift the activity from fossil-powered energy to electrical energy. The second measure we are taking is that we have large blends of biodiesel, or a sales directive related to biodiesel, which also helps to shift that part of the technology on heavier vehicles and those that still drive with diesel. It turns out to be good and effective action. Then we have to make sure that the measures we're taking, also balanced against the experience people have of whether you live in District Norway and depend on the car, you're the one who's going to take the bill for the climate measures and at the same time fund big collective efforts in the rest of the country. I think we have to take that seriously that is also important in this context. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e314	Jon Georg Dale – to the next follow-up question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e319	There are some changes that have been indisputably made since the party of progress left the government. One is that the government has chosen to strengthen the climate commitments of Norway, and the other is that one has done so without knowing the consequences. The Prime Minister has confirmed this by replying to the representative, Siv Jensen. That's what's new, because in the past, a person wants to know the consequences of the grips. We're not doing that right now. We don't know what it costs, we don't know what that means for the global emissions, and we don't know what that means for Norwegian jobs. It's new that the Prime Minister is going from knowing to seeing such great consequences and with so much money at stake. Click to close the curve We are concerned about an effective climate policy – the problem is that we do not know it now. What leads the Prime Minister and the Government to conclude – with measures and obligations after the Climate Change Day – seven days after the unsolicited proposals were put on the table? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e326	It is no surprise, I think, for the former members of the Progress Party of the Government that February 9th was the time when enhanced climate action was to be submitted. The question was whether to get in the back of the EU, or whether to say that we determine what we think is right to achieve the 1.5 degree goal – our contribution to it – and that, based on it, we should use the mechanisms that the former government, where the Progress Party was involved, negotiated ahead of us, namely the agreement with the EU. The principle that we used and that has been enshrined in the government documents negotiated at both Jeløya and Granavolden is that we implement our climate policy together with the European Union. The EU will strengthen its objective. Click to close the curve Then there is the question of the distribution – whether it is going to be in the ETS sector, i.e. in the trading of allowances, strengthening the targets and implementing other measures, or whether it is going to be in the non-quota sector. We don't know yet. Therefore, our enhanced efforts are conditional also on what the EU is going to do. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e333	Jon Georg Dale – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e338	However, the reason why the Progress Party agreed to join in a joint implementation with the EU on this was that we should use the quota flexibility that is there and that we can implement the climate measures where they are most effective. Now the government announces that both a sharpener's commitment and that one should use it only if strictly necessary. That's the challenge, for a climate cure less than a week before the government's proposal on enhanced targets came, one sees that it's a mess of proposals with very high cost of action, there's no profit estimates of which society is left with different investments, and there's no assessment of whether it would be more effective to cut out. Based on the facts, the government chooses to reinforce its climate change measures. That's when the simple question is: Can the Prime Minister mention another case where there has been such proceedings in the government — a weekly procedure without knowing the consequences? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e345	The question of what we are about to report on targets has been dealt with much longer than the issues of climate change, which is about implementation in the non-quota sector, which is therefore part of the whole. The underlying principle is interaction with the EU. This means that the entire large sector in which we do not have control of the instruments, namely the way in which trading in allowances is going to be, will be part of these changes and the framework conditions that the EU will set in its work. Then we have said that our strengthened objective is conditional on the EU also going up – unless we have to use international quotas and such flexible mechanisms to achieve it. If the EU and Norway do not have the same level of objectives, the burden will be borne by making it too high for Norwegian industry and for Norwegian society. It will then be conditional on using flexibility, and on the fact that there are also flexible instruments in the Paris Agreement. Click to close the curve For the other elements of flexibility — the question of strictly necessary — the Granavolden platform is based on the one negotiated by four parties. Then the Progress Party agreed to only use the flexible mechanisms if strictly necessary. It's on the Granavolden platform. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e353	Let's move on to the next main question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e358	Following the government changes in January, the government chose to appoint its own Minister for District and Digitalisation. The question is what the State Council should be responsible for. Of the funds that the government says they have allocated to so-called wide-ranging district policy measures, the district minister is only responsible for 3 pst., and most of these three percent go directly to the counties and are managed there. In other words, the district minister is a state council almost without a portfolio. One has to ask himself if it is the most for his own PR and communication the government has appointed such a council. For us in Stortinget, at least this becomes a little bit inexorable. It is difficult to conduct meaningful discussions with a district minister who has neither power nor money. Minister of State Astrup has much more to say for the districts than the Minister of State. The same applies to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance. It is those who are the real district ministers in the government – the seas if they are too often engaged in centralisation, that is, the opposite of a good district policy. What the government risks with this out-of-town organisation of district responsibilities is, in fact, marginalising district policy. It seems that the district minister is more than intended to be a role as a kind of lightning conductor for a government that is struggling with the credibility of the districts. Click to close the curve The government has had some examples of them appointing state councils without portfolios. We thought when they transformed the government and removed the Minister of the Elderly and the Minister of Social Security, that they had learned from it. Then the question is, why have they once again appointed a government council that has no power over important areas or money to do anything about district policy? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e365	It is not that someone in the governments I have run has not had a portfolio or has not had a constitutional responsibility. The only state council I know in modern times that has had such a role is Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who was the Minister of Coordination at the Prime Minister's office in the government of Marit Arnstad. Everyone else has had a responsibility, a clear policy area. Click to close the curve Nor is it unknown that there are many coordination ministers in different departments who have little responsibility themselves but who are responsible for coordinating government policies in one area. Let me, for example. take the Minister for Gender Equality. The Minister for Gender Equality has a small area of responsibility for gender equality by being responsible for the Equality Ombudsman and the law surrounding it. Most of the gender equality policy we know happens in a lot of other departments. I think a lot of business ministers have been frustrated that most of the instruments of business policy are in other departments. There is no one who has asked whether we should have a Minister of Economic Affairs or not because we have a Minister of Finance who is responsible for the framework conditions, or a Minister of Transport to build the roads in Norway and provide the framework conditions for getting the goods out. It is therefore true that many ministers have a greater coordination responsibility for the area even though they do not have the full portfolio of responsibilities associated with this. Click to close the curve The responsibility for coordinating rural policy has been important. I myself have been the municipal minister responsible for district and regional policy at some point. That time, I remember that the Central Party in opposition thought we had to have our own district minister. Although the tax and tax issues were handled in the Ministry of Finance, I was equally active at meetings related to a differentiated employer's fee, even though it was not my responsibility. So is a district minister. That means you're working on coordinating, seeing the whole thing, working on planning around the whole of district policy. So it's not unusual – actually more common than usual – that we have ministers who have a smaller area as their own constitutional responsibility but who have a larger area of coordination. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e374	The intention of having a municipal and district minister had given some meaning to this point, but I note that the Prime Minister, in his reply, too, has very little difficulty in explaining what this district minister is going to do. It is possible that she will talk out and talk nicely about growth and development in the countryside, but the #lover population will not lead to any better district policy. District policy is determined by concrete measures. In my and the district minister's home country, Trøndelag, is one of Norway's most innovative travel businesses, Stokkoya beach hotels and sea centre. They are struggling with the framework conditions that this government provides, and one of the reasons for this is the cost that the government has incurred of travel life by increasing VAT, from 8 p.m. to 12 pst. for overnight stays. It would have been a concrete and important measure by the government. Is it relevant for the government to reduce VAT on travel life in order to create better conditions for those who generate value in the districts? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e379	Having one’s own Minister for Regional and Digitalisation also means lifting the responsibility for coordination, because it is often called for a desire to see the whole better in what is policy – both for this government and for previous governments – and how it will affect different areas. Then it is absolutely right that I fully agree with Mr Arnstad that the major regional policy is more important. In fact, it has been the Right message every time the Center Party has talked about regional development funds that rages District Norway, saying that framework conditions for Norwegian business are the most important. So this government has reduced taxes by 25 billion. kr. Much of that has gone to business. Every company in Norway is left with 6 pst. more in profits that they can invest — whether they are in marketing, product development, or the development of people, employees. It is extremely important in the districts. When we reduce taxes on wealth, it is also important for districts, because there is something District Norway needs, there is more private local capital – instead of a policy that captures more of it. The District Minister shall help to see the context and, of course, be a ‘packaging’ for the purposes of the districts within the Government. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e384	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e389	The Prime Minister seems to be talking about anything other than what I asked for, namely the VAT on travel and accommodation. Is the government willing to reduce it, like the Center Party, among other things? have you proposed? Click to close the curve But let me take another concrete example that is important in the big district policy. The new district minister has been on tour in the West to show that she is concerned about ferry policy. The supply and price of ferries is an important part of rural policy, and there the government has contributed to increased costs for coastal areas through a change in the income system and also by not taking the additional costs associated with the transition to river ferries. It hits the coasts hard, it hits people hard, it hits an important offer along the coast very hard. Both the coastal states, the KS and even the Left in More and Romesdal – I see – now agree that the government has to take the bill for the introduction of river ferries. And that's not 100 million. As the Prime Minister has said in an earlier Question Time, that is at least 500 million. kr. The question then is: is it relevant for the government – in district policy – to cover this bill? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e396	In this context, I can actually refer to my answers in the previous oral Question Time. Then I gave a lot of answers, and one of the answers was that we should actually review the question of the conditions for why we believe that 100 million. NOK covered it, we will review it now when there have been several ferry offers. It was based on a real professional review of – I think it was – 15 or 19 tenders that had been out. Then they looked at the extra costs associated with electricity or low-emission ferries and the tender that had been made. It was estimated that we covered it with it. Then we've been completely open to seeing this when there's now more – whether it's still true, or whether there's any change in it. The Minister of Transport and three other state councils will meet the five large ferries – I think it's March 2nd they're invited to meet – just to discuss the different aspects of the cost factors that make county councils decide on higher ferry prices. I have a great deal of understanding that there is a burden in everyday life for people, but the Senter Party must not run away from responsibility, because it is their politicians who have taken these decisions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e401	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e406	This concrete measure is not therefore the prime minister of the United Kingdom today to say whether or not the government will cover it. I think the Prime Minister and I agree with what she just said in an answer that rural policy is broad. Another important element of centralisation is the so-called near-police reform, which this government has implemented, which is a far-reaching policy reform. The government is now saying that it will be consolidated in 2020, but from the police districts it is now announced that there will be no consolidation, it will be a pure tightening. The police officer in Troms has just sent letters to all his municipalities that she expects a reduced financial framework for the next two to three years. They have to cut costs, equipment won't be purchased, jobs won't be occupied, today's police stations will be slow, but probably empty for people. Is the Prime Minister concerned about the developments we are now seeing in the police districts, and about the reality expressed here by the police chief of Troms in the years to come? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e411	This government has had a strong commitment to raising the police in the years we've been sitting. We've increased the staffing of all the police departments. We have increased crews overall in Norway. This year's budget provides a basis for achieving the target of 2 police officers per 1 000 inhabitants in Norway. It's actually a force rate that's been applied in these areas. Click to close the curve There is certainly a need to look at how to operate and how to do it around. Our starting point is that we should consolidate, we closely follow up what's going on out there. So there are more than 1,450 new annual works since 2013, budgets in the districts have increased by 1.9 billion. kr. And it's interesting for those of us who have some memory, to remember that every year there's a look for cuts or changes. I remember that in June 2010, 500 jobs were announced in the media to be cut. Every year it's that kind of lookup. When we look at the history afterwards, it's a steady build-up – but with an increased build-up after this government came to power. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e419	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e424	Yes, #bogen doesn't help much if the policy is bad for the population. Click to close the curve To follow up the question from Marit Arnstad about the police: We can see today in Stavanger Aftenblad that the police officer in the South-West police district, Hans Vik, is very clear that now he has to cut. It's going to lead to fewer police officers in investigation and fewer policemen in patrol. He's also very honest about the fact that there's going to be more criminal cases going to have to be longer. This is unusually honest from a police officer. We know that the government doesn't want to right the trustees or add them to it, but my question is whether Prime Minister Erna Solberg believes in what Hans Vik, police officer in South West, describes what the police officer in Troms describes, what they added in the immediate most police districts – that the near-police reform is on a collision course with the decisions of the Stortinget. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e431	I believe that the near-police reform is not on a collision course with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. I don't think everything is perfect with the near-police reform, and we're coming up with a big message showing some of the directions we're going to take the police in the future. We need to increase capacity in some areas, including: in the field of investigation, where unfortunately there is a police structure where it is more attractive to go to patrol than to be in the investigation. That's why you get more new people in the investigation. It has something to do with pay structures, overtime and other things. But we have to look at how we make sure to implement this. Click to close the curve But if we go through what we've said, and what the deal is, we've followed up. I have read an article today, written by the representative, completely without any views or facts, because I thought I would prepare for this to find out what the representative was saying we had not done. I agree with her in one thing, and that is that the investigation piece is not good enough. But the fact that we have increased the number of employees is undeniable. And that we have followed up the other parts of this agreement, is absolutely beyond dispute. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e438	Åshild Bruun-Gundersen – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e443	Norway is completely dependent on entrepreneurs – ordinary women and men who want to invest their own money, work hard and use their skills to start their own business. The Progress Party believes that we need to cheer up entrepreneurs who want to build up their own jobs, because it is absolutely vital to be able to live and live in the district. Click to close the curve Out on a fishing storm along the Helgeland coast, on an island with 12 residents, the married couple Roar and Trude have developed their own product based on local ingredients. The soft distillery has won international recognition and gold for its Arctic Sommergin, but they are not allowed to tell anyone about it. Click to close the curve In a beautiful southern municipality, Håkon has set up a company for quality certified cigarette users. For more than 20 years he has sold his goods in a online store and made it a living. The Health Directorate has now announced that he will not be allowed to have pictures of his products on his website. Click to close the curve What will the Prime Minister do to allow ordinary people like Roar, Trude and Håkon to set up jobs in the district without being faced with petty bans? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e454	The advertising ban on tobacco and alcohol is going to stand. I believe it has broad support around Norway. Tobacco is harmful to people. We're not going to file a complaint about that. We have clear public health issues about not doing that. There are, of course, borders on how far to go and questions about whether to write ‘new product’ on the Vinmonopolet e.l., which should be considered in the future. But the main ban on advertising products that have a ban on advertising, I think we will still stand for that – too many people still die from lung cancer and cancers associated with e.g. smoking. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e459	Let's move on to the next main question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e464	I want to go back to the climate and the environment. It was, in fact, a strange attack by the Progress Party on the Prime Minister, because what the government has now notified is very marked by the fact that the influence of the Progress Party remains in force in environmental policy, despite the fact that they are out of government, because here there has been a significant commitment to the use of e.g. quota trading, when what should be the right line, is that we should take the emission cuts in Norway. Click to close the curve This spring, the government is working on both the follow-up to the Climate Action Programme and the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofoten. The backcloth of that work is that more fossil energy has been found than what we can burn if we are to avoid catastrophic global warming. There is a recognition that will have to express Norwegian policy, because it means that significant parts of the fossil energy resources that are present on the globe need to remain in place if we are to stop the climate crisis. Click to close the curve So in that situation, Norway spends a lot of money looking for oil and gas that we risk not being a market for in the future, and we risk that if we spend too much money on petroleum investment today, it will be in the way of investments in the new green tasks that can give our industry the opportunity to change while there is still time to secure businesses, jobs and wealth. Click to close the curve So before Christmas, the message came that Equinor would not bring the oil from the Johan Castberg field to land in Finnmark anyway. Oil and gas do not necessarily provide as many district jobs as anyone has thought. In this situation, however, the Prime Minister – the party of the Prime Minister – must be corrected to – a new debate on oil drilling outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, and the district minister, whom we have already been in, said on the weekend that saying no to oil drilling outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja means that we will lose – I quote – the tens of thousands of district workplaces. Click to close the curve What was the government's view of oil drilling outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja again? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e477	It is such that the government has said that during this period we will not carry out an impact assessment. There is a basis from the negotiations in the Nydalen between four parties to form a bourgeois government. Click to close the curve That doesn't mean that the Right doesn't mean we're going to have an impact assessment. The District Minister is also the head of the Right Programme Committee and is thus the leader in the development of the programme for the next period. It is not unnatural that the chairman of the programme committee of the Right has views on something in the Right Programme, and I also hope to be on the Right's next programme, namely that we should be in favour of an impact assessment of the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. Click to close the curve What I think must be very clear is that an impact assessment does not mean that you should start drilling or you should start looking, but that means you should do the basic work that makes you have an overview and know whether to put the whole or parts into action – or whether nothing should. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e486	If we are to take District Minister Hofstad Helleland seriously, it means that the policy of the Prime Minister costs tens of thousands of district jobs. It's alarming. Click to close the curve I wonder two things: where does this figure come from, and does the Prime Minister agree that the policy she is pursuing costs the country tens of thousands of district jobs? Or is it the way I think the Prime Minister might be able to confirm that this claim is nonsense? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e493	There is no doubt that the publication of new search sites would lead to more jobs in Norway. That would lead to more district jobs if you had found oil, and we know that it's outside the Lofoten, because it's been opened there. We know that there would be district jobs related to production there. Click to close the curve In addition, the revenue generated by the oil industry is absolutely essential for what we can benefit from well-being in this country. One out of $8 on the state budget today comes from the returns on our pension fund. It is clear that we have said no to initiate activity in the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja, have had a cost for the Norwegian community. The representative Lighthouse must also be aware that there is a cost in terms of fewer jobs in this sector. Click to close the curve Now we've had a lot of activity in this area for a while. What's our problem in the future is that the activity goes down, and then the number of jobs related to this will also go down. It could now prevent opening new areas. We've been negotiating on that. I know that it has a downside that we've said that we're not going to have activity in that area in this period. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e503	There will be follow-up questions – Audun Lightbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e508	I record that the Prime Minister does not really answer the questions as to whether there is a basis for the claim of the tens of thousands, and that is of course because there is no evidence for them. Click to close the curve Let's go to something far more concrete. It is not about tens of thousands of jobs, but if Equinor had been committed to landing from the Johan Castberg field, it would create important jobs for Nordkapp and Finnmark. The promises of all the jobs that would come to the north if we only accepted the expansion were important for that debate in its time. In North Cape and Finnmark, people now feel cheated. Click to close the curve SV has proposed imposing a landing charge on Equinor. If the Right and Government are so concerned about district jobs – why don't they support that proposal? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e517	I understand very well that people in eastern Finland are experiencing what Equinor has done, as a small breach of promise. They were up there with high cigar leads, with great desire to implement them there. We have looked at the conditions and questions that have been attached to this, and we believe that we cannot oblige them to start this work. To what extent to do so, the Storting has actually taken a decision on earlier. So the SV's proposal has been put to the vote. Click to close the curve It is a little strange that SV is opposed to an extension, while when they first need to have an extension, they should in a way make it as profitable as possible in view of the effects this would have had. It is clear that there is a cost side to the development that makes Equinor make that decision. In that case we would have to bear that cost approx. 70-80 pst. of the State budget. Then the question is, would it be the right thing to choose? I think we have to deal with Equinor as they are: a listed company that has to have predictable framework conditions for its work. I am also sorry that they have not chosen to do this. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e524	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e529	It is not at least strange that SV is promoting that proposal. This is precisely because the environmental consequences are potentially so great. So at least it's reasonable that when the big community first decides to do this, Finnmark gets something back. Now we've been promoting that proposal again, so there's room to think about once again, both for the government parties and for the Progress Party. Click to close the curve Let's talk about the edge of the ice, because it's going to be the big environmental debate in 2020. It deals with, among other things: whether Norway is going to participate in an oil race further north of the Arctic, where oil exploration would be more risky. Click to close the curve In that situation – so given what we now know about how many of the companies involved in the last round of licences have gone further south, but which have received tax subsidies through today’s system – does the Prime Minister believe that tax subsidies for fossil energy exploration should apply no matter how far north it is, and no matter how environmentally risky it is, but how economically risky it will be for Norway? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e538	I believe that we should have predictable framework conditions for those who invest in Norway. These framework conditions imply the tax system that we have served well in that we have had, among other things. contribute to diversity. Click to close the curve One of the major challenges we experienced under the red-green government was the merger between Hydro and Statoil, which is now Equinor, which means less diversity on the base. Then it's important that we have some mechanisms that make more people look at things with new eyes. One of the reasons we found Johan Sverdrup was that someone looked with new eyes. It actually contributes to that system by taking a risk-absorbing approach. But the starting point, in my opinion, is that these are not subsidies; this is a risk relief that we take back with the tax guess we have when you find oil and gas. Click to close the curve When it comes to the issue of ice-cream, I think it's a question of biodiversity, it's a question of environmental considerations – it's not a question of climate. It's a question of biodiversity and environmental considerations, and that's what we're going to focus on when we're assessing where the ice edge is. There's a particularly rich belt below the edge of the ice that we're going to take care of. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e547	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e552	It is also a question of climate, because if we look for oil more and more north in increasingly risky areas, it is a sign that Norway has in practice intended to bet on climate targets, i.e. looking for fossil energy that – if the world acts quickly enough against the climate crisis – it will not be a market to address. Click to close the curve But let's take the piece that's about nature and biodiversity, because the Prime Minister's description of the ice edge's value in that perspective is quite correct. The environmental advice in this case is very clear – they're talking about moving the definition of the ice-cream zone southward. We believe that the Institute of Marine Research and the Polar Institute must do so – has recommended it in the Professional Forum's professional reports. Click to close the curve Let me ask: is it relevant for the Prime Minister to ignore the crystal clear environmental recommendations in this matter? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e561	The government comes back to Stortinget with its views on the ice when we're done dealing with the question. To drag the different parts of that treatment into here, that I'm going to think about it, I'm not going to contribute to it. I believe that we have to discuss this. There will be a management plan for Stortinget. Then the government's joint proposal will be based, and as I said, we are concerned about the bio-diversity that is there. It's also in today's definition of the edge of the ice. That's why it's 50 km from the edge of the ice, because it's where it's a particularly rich and good environment. So there's no new point of view that we're concerned with it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e566	Let's move on to the next main question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e571	The country has just had another taste of what kind of globe we leave to our kids. The extreme weather of ‘Elsa’ led this week to a storm flood from Agder to Trundellag, and in Europe the storm has cost six people their lives. In recent years, damage to buildings due to rainstorms has been eightfold double. Although the Prime Minister often says that emissions are falling, emissions in Norway are now still higher than they were in 1990, when we started with climate policy in Norway. If we keep going at the same rate, it'll take 125 years for us to become a zero-emission society. The Prime Minister has the position in Norway today to be able to influence whether those who are young today will experience extreme weather as ‘Elsa’ every ten years, every five years or every two years. Click to close the curve The government has now committed itself to climate cooperation with the EU and strengthened the objectives we have reported that we need to cope with emissions cuts. However, in order to assess at all how the government's proposal for a government budget affects our climate, we – both the Storting and the government themselves – depend on sector-by-sector emissions budgets, sector-by-sector, how the budget either increases emissions or cuts in emissions. Click to close the curve We have introduced such a climate budget in Oslo – and with it inspired a number of million cities in the world, such as New York, Sydney, Paris and Rio de Janeiro – but nationally we lack such a democratic tool for the elected people. So far, I feel that the government has been extremely reluctant to demonstrate the impact of its government budget on today's greatest challenge: climate crisis. Click to close the curve Will the government provide future sectoral climate budgets showing how Norway can be on track to the 2030 target, as from the state budget for next year? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e583	Each year, the state budget provides updated projections based on the policies before the State budget submitted. And that shows – with what was ahead of the 2020 budget – that we're going to cut by 13 pst. until 2030, if we don't reinforce it further. This may also be a conservative estimate in some areas, because, for example, developments have occurred. on electric car policy and on biodiesel goes faster than what was contained in the estimates at that time. Click to close the curve But we have a different starting point from what the representative has in terms of what it becomes important to govern. We now have an agreement on an emission budget, which is thus binding on Norway, which means that every year we have to deliver on those cuts, in the path that we have agreed with the European Union that it should be. This is a budget for the non-quota sector to deliver the emission cuts that we need, and it is considerably more stringent. These include: That is why we have created a new climate cure, to look at how we are going to achieve this, what measures, and how quickly we need to achieve it. One interesting thing about climate change is that the earlier the action is taken, the faster it gets effect, and the more effective it gets throughout the period, so that it is even better for the emissions budget. Click to close the curve We believe that the emissions budget is the best way to work. So we never know when we get the big technology changes. A lot of our emissions are not something you can read from what's in the state budget, but from what's the behavior of the individual individuals related to the different measures. One of the things we see is, for example, that even though we have provided for so-called zero proceeds of the conversion of the car charges, the car charges have resulted in both a significantly greater emission reduction and proceeds than was previously provided. Click to close the curve That is why I believe that the emissions budgets, with the agreement and the commitment that is now, are actually the most important way to work in the future. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e594	So it is the Stortingen which is the National Assembly of Norway, not the EU. It is the Stortinget that, when we are presented with proposals for the state budget, has to be able to assess: how does this help us, or does it prevent us from achieving the climate goals that we have set ourselves – in order to take a joint responsibility in the world, in order to prevent climate change affecting those who have the least, the most? But also for the North: it's the single mother who can't afford to insure her house, who suffers the most when she gets flooded in the cellar. It is the little farmer who already operates on the margins, who suffers the most when there is a flood on his land. Click to close the curve Climate policy is also about social policy, and this is where the Stortinget must be able, when we get proposals for a government budget, to assess how these budgets affect – for each sector – our ability to achieve the emission targets. It may be in addition to an overall emission budget that we deliver to the EU. We don't need the numbers that are misleading and say what we can do given a development that the government isn't quite sure is going to be any of. We're dependent on numbers that say, what do we get on the climate side with this budget? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e603	I believe that it is an instrument that is almost impossible to create in all areas. One can do it in individual actions and individual areas, but the sum of what happens depends entirely on the behavior of people. That's why I think it has little use. And that's why we have chosen to make the reporting post-report on these, when you see how the measures are, and can have a professionally sound basis for each area. Then, of course, the measures considered to contribute to reductions in different sectors will be made visible, and this is also mentioned every year — the climate priorities in the budget and the objectives pursued. Click to close the curve But to manage for a budget where you can see the entire budget from a climate perspective, and say what's each piece, I don't think that will give us so much more, because there will be so much uncertainty about those things. But the area in which we can do it is in action, and we do. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e610	Let's move on to the next main question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e615	Last week there was a thorough matter in Stavanger Aftenblad about the «most expensive government of the times». It showed that the staff is growing, that 13 bureaucrats at SMK have over 1 million. kr in income in the year and that 2019 is the fifth consecutive year in which one does not cut money use on itself in the government. Annual costs now the government and SMK over 300 million. kr. It's a record, and there's a record set under Erna Solberg's leadership. Click to close the curve Then there was a review in the Evening Post of Remuneration, which showed that senior government councillors, state secretaries and advisers have received over 20 million. DKK in total post-employment during the period from 2014 to 2019. With the exit of the Progress Party, we can now get up to 10 million. NOK in additional post-employment costs. Click to close the curve When ordinary people lose their jobs and have to apply for a daily allowance from NAV, they get a maximum of 62.4 pst. of previous salaries and only of wages and salaries of up to 6 G, i.e. NOK 600 000. Click to close the curve Red proposed two weeks ago to have a ceiling on the remuneration of government councils on just 62.4 p.m. of previous pay, the same percentage as most people get when they lose their job. That proposal voted against the parties to the Government, the Labour Party against, the Central Party against and the Progress Party against. Click to close the curve I wonder why it is right that ordinary people who lose their jobs must apply for a daily allowance and a maximum of two-thirds of the previous salary, while a government council of the million is guaranteed a completely unemployed income for at least one month, but in many cases it gets for up to half a year? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e628	There are two different types of compensation for government policy-makers. One is support for the individual in the transition to a new job. You have to go for the day. Other people have a three-month notice period, which is the general rule in Norway. So you get paid for three months. I think it's okay, because if you get a change of government, it's not so good to have the old politicians sitting on the other side of the table to help out for three months. It could have been a fun experience, but they don't have a duty to work – because a new regime has arrived. Actually, I think it's quite decent. But you don't get it automatically, you only get it if you don't have a job to do. Those who go to Stortinget don't get it. Those who have a job to go back to don't get it. Click to close the curve Then we have another set of rules called quarantine rules, which have been introduced because people go to jobs where they can use the knowledge they have. If you go to a job where the job you used to have as a politician is relevant because you give your new employer a advantage, you can get the quarantine. The fact that you get paid under that quarantine does not seem unreasonable to me either, because you actually get a job ban. Click to close the curve So we've said that we're going to go through these rules, that we're going to bring down a sample that's going to look at how the quarantine rules, etc. is, but it's not unreasonable that a politician who has been sitting for a year, because you have to sit for a year to earn this, actually get what's normal in normal working life, to have three months' pay. But it's conditional on applying yourself, and you don't have a job to go to, and at the starting point, it's only one month's pay that's automatic, and it's not true for big business representatives. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e637	Governments thus receive job-free guaranteed income for one month – and up to half a year. We have also seen cases that both Robert Eriksson and Per Sandberg have created consulting companies that have not had a job after the quarantine period, and then they also get cash out six months of unemployment-free income and compensation from the current government. Click to close the curve So the state councils get 115,000 dollars a month in arrears. Those who are young, on the AAP, have had a cut in their benefits down to NOK 130 000 a year, a cut of one third of their income. Young people with disabilities said it very clearly: they said that it is totally unreasonable to compare the young people who receive redundancy payments with the young people who can choose to work more. Our members who go on the AAP are too sick to do that. Click to close the curve How can young people at work cope with 130 000 DKK a year, while a former State Council obviously needs more than 115 000 DKK a month? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e646	We can compare them all that way, that we shouldn't have more pay than the minimum pensioners, we can do all of these populist operations. I think the challenge had become that quite a few had not set up for democracy and for politics. At the outset, in Norway, we have policy-makers' wages that are quite moderate compared to very many other countries. We have cleaned up many of the extra benefits that have been. So it's a little bit of a look at the quarantine rules and the system around the quarantine rules, which is why we're putting down a new sample. Click to close the curve The representative points out that a lot of money has been spent on the fact that there has been a change in this government. I want to stress that our payments are lower than the red-green government payments for the exact same period. So it's not like this government has been more expensive than the former government of paybacks and quarantines. In fact, it's a little bit under the heading of job change. Click to close the curve That's not a big point for me, but that's the way the country has to have a Prime Minister's office that works. We have a safety situation that means that we have far more drivers than before, you are simply told that you cannot drive for safety reasons. Still, the Prime Minister's office must be one of the absolute smallest Prime Minister's offices, and it has not increased in my period of employees, except marginally on the driver's side. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e655	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e660	That is certainly a complete derailment. We're talking about the state councils having a crazy much more lucrative pay-back system than what people most have. So they get job-free income without having to lift a finger up to six months by creating consulting companies, which have not even been commissioned after they have completed their quarantine. So it's a completely different system than the one that applies to most people who lose their jobs. Click to close the curve I understand that this may be scary. Robert Eriksson defended the system of saying the following: if not the option for politicians is to go to Nav and raise social welfare. Click to close the curve It was a special statement, because it's hardly social help that's relevant to politicians who go off. But if that's how Nav's idea seems to be so deeply entrenched to the abducted state councils, maybe the goal should be to get cleaned up in Nav instead of securing themselves lucrative arrangements. Click to close the curve So ordinary people meet a job, an activity obligation, at Nav if they lose their job, while government councils get a job-free income. Why is such discrimination correct, according to Erna Solberg's assessment? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e671	Quarantine means a ban on work in the job you have been given. That's what you're compensating for. So it's not a job-free income. It's a compensation for a work ban. That means you can get a ban on work, a quarantine, or you can get a ban on working on some things, and then you don't get compensation. Click to close the curve This came because one felt that it was difficult when, for example. State secretaries who had been sitting tight on long-term processes went to different companies that also worked on the same issues. That they had quarantine systems was introduced under the Bondevik II government, and then it has been further developed under the subsequent governments. Click to close the curve Now we've said that we're going to look more at how these quarantine rules are designed, and we're going to put down a sample that's going to work on it, but it's a work ban that's the starting point for you to get paid back for more than three months. If you do not have a job to go back to and are in the labour market, then three months is what is the normal notice period for an employee in the labour market for the rest of his life. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e681	Let's move on to the last main question. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e686	During the October debate, the Prime Minister said that it is ‘better preparedness in the air ambulance service now than it was in the past, because we have strengthened the air ambulance’. Click to close the curve Today she might not have used exactly those words, for the service is still vulnerable. In Finnmark, standby is still too low on the short-haul network. The readiness for December 2019 was 80 p.m., and it is alarmingly bad. For January it was 89 p.m., which is still too bad. And the deviation reports for December show that, in particular, Alta had major anomalies. Alta is the largest city in Finnmark, 20,000 inhabitants, and it makes the rarest and bigger events most frequent, and the security of the population depend entirely on a functioning service. Click to close the curve Now the Health Authority has notified system monitoring to see if the air ambulance service, i.e. the health company, which is responsible for the mission, has done a decent job, and the county doctor is reviewing several incidents that emerge in the wake of the air ambulance crisis. Click to close the curve Will the Prime Minister today recognise that the government was too light on the situation last autumn? And can the Prime Minister assure that the government will maintain remedies as long as the new operator is unable to provide a stable service? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e700	First of all, my opinion in the debate on the throne was about the tender that had been made, which was strengthened in relation to previous tenders. There were therefore better services in the tender. In this way, this government has given priority to strengthening the ambulance service. Click to close the curve Then it is absolutely right that it is not delivered well enough from Babcock. From the moment we saw it, exceptional measures have been put in place to ensure that the coverage is good. Therefore, the coverage for much of these periods has been over 100 pst. on actual measures, which have contributed to the improvement of safety over what has actually been foreseen during this period, because exceptional measures have been put in place. I believe that we have been on it since this started, with the measures that have been delivered. Babcock has delivered more – has put in place additional measures with planes and crew from Sweden. We've also deployed defence resources to secure this. People are going to feel safe with the offer that is. This means that when Babcock has not been able to deliver well enough on the contract now, extra measures have been put in place to get these things done. Click to close the curve So this shows that this transition we're always going to learn a lot from. At some point there will be a new transition. Whether it's going to be what you're doing now, a state system that can also have entry problems, or whether it's going to be others, we need to learn from what are vulnerabilities when you switch in and take in new planes and new planes. There is also a cross-thinking that there were quite a lot of irregularities in 2009, when the previous supplier brought new aircraft after the new offer, because it takes time to get that type of new aircraft and get everything to work properly. Click to close the curve I believe that on the part of the government, we have put people's safety in the high seat all the time. That's why we've secured extra measures all the way. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e711	Any entry problems in 2009 should have been learned from the current situation. Click to close the curve In the early January business meeting, all these additional measures that have been put in place were adopted in the form of jet aeroplanes in Tromsø and the helicopter capacity in Kirkenes, as mentioned by the Prime Minister. At the same time, it was found that the bill for all these additional measures was to be borne by health businesses, i.e. hospitals, which are already chronically underfunded by this government as cutting-edge and increasing self-payment. So that bill has now pushed the government over the patients – to pay to compensate for the insecurity created. The Labour Party believes that the government should take those costs even through an additional allocation in the revised budget. Click to close the curve Does the Prime Minister agree that it might be reasonable in this context? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e720	The starting point is that health care establishments, which are obliged to provide this service, are also obliged to find the money to do so. What's going to be the health business budget, we're going to deal with every single budgetary process, and that's what we're going to do. But they have the duty, they have the responsibility for this, they are the ones who, when extra measures have to be put in, have to find room to finance it. It is a very important part of the whole health reform to ensure that no additional appropriations are to be made every time someone shouts loud about extra expenditure. Health reform should be such that health businesses actually take responsibility for their tasks. Click to close the curve When the representative says that health businesses are chronically underfunded by this government, I wonder what the description was of the health policy of the red-green government, since we have significantly higher appropriations. We've increased them more than the red-green government did. In addition, we have reduced waiting times, and we deliver better quality and treat more patients. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e727	It opens up for follow-up questions – first the representative Ingvild Kjerkol. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e732	Hospital budgets are determined according to the expected demography — what is expected needs of the health care population. That comparison the prime minister never makes with the red-green period. It would have been interesting to discuss, because then you get the reality. Click to close the curve Nor is it the case that health businesses are calling out for more money on the smallest thing. They have the responsibility of providing care, but this is a national service organised in a separate undertaking, where the regional undertakings pay in, and then a national acquisition is carried out. And all the warnings that have come – in advance of a new offer, en route and in retrospect – have passed through the owner of enterprises: the Council of State. So here, unfortunately, the government has to take responsibility for not having learned from past mistakes. Click to close the curve I ask again: do you think it is reasonable that the hospitals, the hospital professionals and the patients should bear the costs when it has been warned in search and cavities? I'm sorry about the unparliamentary expression, President. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e741	It's noted. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e746	I fully agree that health companies are not calling for extra appropriations all the time. It is because they have experienced owners and politicians who have been aware of the framework within which their work is to be carried out and that they must carry out the tasks for which they are responsible, with the budgets they have at all times. At the moment we start rocking it in individual areas, there will be a new arena to shout for money. Click to close the curve I have been a wholesaler both before and after the health reform, and I remember when the directors of the Radium Hospital and the Rikshospital about rolled patients in when the financial committee dealt with balancing budgets before Christmas, and got completely different framework conditions from what the county authorities were operating at that time, because they had the opportunity to do so. That is why I hope that together we can ensure that the culture that is now created in health businesses remains there. Click to close the curve My answer is: we are dealing with the framework for health businesses in the budgetary procedures. That means I am not going to predict that they will get or will not get more money now. It is a matter of ordinary budgetary procedure. Until then, health-care establishments must take the view that this is a responsibility on which they are obliged to deliver. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e755	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e760	On 4 October, the Prime Minister stated the following about the air ambulance service: ‘That which includes, inter alia: is important to say, so that we do not make an experience of fear, that there have been no health consequences for patients of the changes that have been made." In January, the county board of Troms and Finnmark created five oversight cases related to the air ambulance service. In one of the cases that are now being considered, the patient died. The State Health Authority has set up system monitoring services for the air ambulance service in order to know whether the population is receiving defence services. Click to close the curve How could the Prime Minister stand in the Stortinge in the fall and know better than the County Doctor and the State Health Authority and ensure that it did not have the health consequences of emergency crisis? In respect of all those who have happened: Will the Prime Minister today say that she is undoing what she said in the Storting in the fall? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e773	It was based on the information that came from exactly the same authorities about assessing what the consequences were at that time. On 4 October, the assessment by the different supervisory authorities was that there had been no health consequences related to this. That's what I used to do when I was standing in the Great Britain's pulpit. I also said, as I have also mentioned earlier, that the tender we have makes us have a better service initially. It may be that something has happened afterwards, but it is true that this was what the health authorities in Norway had given us information about October 4. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e778	The oral question procedure is over. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e792	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. Click to close the curve The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Click to close the curve Question 8, from the representative of the Minister for Culture and Gender, Anette Trettebergstuen, has been withdrawn. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e806	There is strong and good legislation for the sale and placing on the market of tobacco and snuffs from physical outlets, but my question is as follows: ‘What will the Council of State do to ensure that the penalties for digital outlets that market tobacco/snus in the Norwegian market are as stringent as those already applicable to physical outlets of the same goods?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e819	I am aware that there has been an increase in online sales of tobacco products in recent years, and that this new sales channel poses new challenges. The Health Directorate has paid particular attention to online shops in its supervisory work in the last year. Click to close the curve The Health Directorate can today decide on the correction and periodic penalty payments against online shops that violate the tobacco legislation. In the case of physical shops, the municipalities have supervisory powers. They may, in addition to decisions on correction and periodic penalty payments, impose a sale ban. Click to close the curve When the EU Tobacco Directive enters into force in Norway, a new registration system for online sales is introduced at the Directorate-General for Health. In the event of a tobacco breach, the directorate would then be able to withdraw the registration, which in practice produces the same result as a ban on sales. The necessary legal frameworks for this have already been adopted by the Stortinget. The Ministry expects the Tobacco Directive to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement during the spring, but it is still uncertain as we await EU approval. Click to close the curve The Ministry has also started work on reviewing the provisions of the Tobacco Injury Act in the context of the implementation of the new EU regulation on market surveillance, Regulation 2019/1020, which was adopted by the EU in June last year. Click to close the curve A number of EU countries have introduced a ban on the online sale of tobacco products. They justify the fact that it is far more difficult to control compliance of these shops with tobacco legislation, such as the age limit and the advertising ban. Click to close the curve I want to follow developments very closely and ensure that all sales of tobacco products in Norway are subject to strict regulation, regardless of which sales channel you use. Equal conditions of competition for the industry are, of course, also important. Click to close the curve If it turns out that online shops comply with the legislation to a lesser extent than the physical shops, we need to be open to look at further measures. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e836	I thank you for your answer. I also record that the Health Minister of Dagens Medisin clearly stated at the end of January that the tobacco industry has to prepare to “shut in the pants” – and I am pleased about that. This is a known problem. Over time, the supervision activities of the Health Directorate have also noted this. The Trade Service Association has sent enquiries to the Department about the problem up to several times. They have also had their own Minister of Public Health in the Solberg Government. Click to close the curve I hear the Council of States say they are waiting for the EU, but what makes it impossible to provide equal penalties for physical and digital outlets? Today it is possible to issue a voucher of NOK 1000 – there is a reasonable rent on Facebook to advertise these goods. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e843	The simple reason is simply that we are dependent on implementing the EU tobacco directive. The House of Law is already in place, and that means that during the spring, our plan – and what we hope for – is that we can implement the directive. Then this law house will come into force, and then the directorate can withdraw the registration license and thus also actually introduce a sale ban, as we have the opportunity to do when we deal with the physical stores. I see that the directorate is following closely in this area. Recent cases have also shown that they do. It was also a matter of spontaneous questioning with the Prime Minister. We are very concerned by the government to ensure that the advertising ban on the sale of tobacco products is maintained on both networks and anywhere else, and that there are penalties when someone violates this legislation. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e848	I thank you for the answer, and I hope that this will be followed closely up. I have just been informed that children far below the age limit for snuff and tobacco order online. They avoid the legislation by clicking off for later payment, i.e. by delivery on the door, which means that children in Norway today, if you call 14-year-old children, have access to purchase such goods online. What does the Council of State think about this happening today? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e853	The Tobacco Directive requires electronic age control at the time of purchase. In fact, in Norway, we have also introduced a requirement for age control to be carried out even at the time of delivery. This is a topic for which we have been complained to ESA, claiming a breach of the EEA Agreement, but we believe this is within the EEA Agreement, and we are going to stand on a point of view that we will also be demanding age control at the time of delivery. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e861	«The case from Sørlanden Hospital, where a doctor has injured and maimed several patients at the hospital in Flekkefjord, is very serious. Nevertheless, he continued to operate at the hospital in Kristiansand when he was under investigation. The Minister for Health points out that health businesses are responsible. This is obviously not good enough when this can happen. Police officers are decommissioned when they are under investigation by the Special Forces. Click to close the curve Will the Council of State instruct health establishments to remove health professionals who are under investigation for serious treatment errors immediately from service and, if necessary, amend the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e868	The case that has been discovered at the Sørlande Hospital is very serious. Health South-East will follow up the South-East Hospital closely in the future in this matter. Click to close the curve The hospital is now contacting patients who have been operated on by the doctor concerned. Patients and family members who are concerned can also contact the hospital directly. Click to close the curve The group audit in Health South-East is now carrying out a review of the case. The matter is also dealt with by the Health Inspectorate, and Sørlanden Hospital will help to ensure that the Health Inspectorate is properly reviewed. The hospital has assured you that the doctor in question does not have a patient-oriented service until the Health Authority has completed its review. Click to close the curve I have a great deal of understanding that this case has engaged and is upsetting the population in the area. We need to be sure that the personnel treating patients in hospitals have the necessary competence. The hospital now has a great and important job to do to rebuild trust. Click to close the curve There are several provisions in force to ensure sound health care and to provide for the suspension of healthcare professionals when there are grounds for doing so. The Ministry of Health and Health has recently launched a work in which the regulation of the response system against health professionals and activities by, among others, Adverse events are central. It is too early to say whether this will involve some changes in this area. However, the issue that has now been identified shows the importance of having good systems and regulations that ensure patient safety. This means that, in this case, the health business has all the authorities to be able to suspend health professionals if they consider it necessary. The internal audit and health inspection will provide us with an answer as to whether it should have been done at an earlier point in time than what has been done in this case. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e881	I note that the Minister of Health continues to point out that this is the hospital management's own responsibility. But at least let me go through some of the things that have been going on for years: Finn Åge Olsen was going to operate an ankle fracture and ended up amputating a bone. Click to close the curve Margret Annie Gudbergsdottir had broken her wrist in one case and got two steel plates and twelve screws in her hand, an error operation that led to her no longer being able to move her arm. The arm is stiff all the way from the shoulder down. She has had a life in pain and with disability and can no longer work. Click to close the curve Åse Løkken Wallge was fresh, but ended up with hip replacement and dripped foot. Click to close the curve A woman in her 60s was admitted to Flekkefjord Hospital with a serious infection, not getting help and dying. Click to close the curve A Kristiansand-woman was supposed to remove a small crop, but ended up with nearly ten screws in the big river and a broken foot. Click to close the curve I need to know if the Minister of Health can understand that these patients are furious that the hospital management never took hold, and let this doctor continue to mutilate their patients for years. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e898	I understand very well the reactions of these patients to this, and I also understand very well that the people of the South generally feel that this is a breach of trust, which the hospital must work systematically to restore. Click to close the curve The representative concluded that the hospital has not done what they should have done in these matters to which the representative refers – some of them, as far as I know, have also been supervisory matters. That's exactly what we're getting answers to through both the internal audit work of Health South-East and the supervision case, so here we can't draw any preliminary conclusion on how this case is handled, even though I understand very well the patients' reaction to this. But I think it is wise now to await both the supervisory report and the internal audit before we draw any conclusions about what has been done wrong and not in this case. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e905	The Health Minister understands that this is a breach of trust. For eleven years a doctor had an operation at Flekkefjord Hospital without being orthoped. During that period he has mutilated and injured several patients. Only when the NRK Sørlanden wrote about the many patients he has injured during this period was the doctor transferred to Kristiansand Hospital, where he was allowed to continue to operate alone, and has also failed patients there. The management knew that the doctor mentioned lacked the necessary specialization. Nevertheless, he continued to operate and injured patients. The doctor is now involved in seven supervisory cases, concluding that the law has been broken. In three cases, the patient died. Click to close the curve Southern hospitals have correctly established a care phone for former patients who may have been operated by this doctor last week. So far, they have received 76 enquiries, and it shows some of the extent and concern that are now with the inhabitants. My question to the Minister of Health is whether he trusts the management of the Sørland Hospital, which has chosen to close its eyes to the situation that has been going on for 11 years. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e912	I understand, as I said, very well the patient's reactions to this, but I hope that we can avoid a situation in which we pre-conclusion in matters that are under supervision and are also subject to internal audit. The management of this case from the hospital's management is of course just a subject there. I believe that the representative is also wise to wait for the work that is now being done, before a preliminary conclusion is drawn on the management's handling of this. We will receive an answer to this through the internal audit and the supervisory case. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e926	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone away. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e934	My question to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs is this: ‘How are VTA enterprises to achieve the objective of having more participants placed in regular jobs, when the participants do not receive the help they need to do work in the workplace in question?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e939	Durable work, VTA, is known as an offer of work for persons who receive disability benefits and need special organisation and close follow-up. The government signaled on the Granavolden platform that we wanted to facilitate more places in permanent work, and so have we. through a significant increase in the number of places in 2019. Click to close the curve Durable work can be arranged in both screened and ordinary activities. The Granavolden platform also gave signals of increased use of ordinary activities in VTA. The Ministry has followed up with Nav by notice that VTA is to be given priority in the ordinary course of business when setting up new posts. Click to close the curve The representative asks how VTA enterprises should achieve the objective of having more participants outsourced to ordinary employers, when the participants do not receive the help they need to do the job in question. Only a few sentences on the background: at present, the general rule is that aids for the use of working life for persons receiving disability benefit are not provided. However, such facilities may be provided if the aid is likely to result in the loss or reduction of disability. Click to close the curve I have to admit that I am not aware of the extent to which it is a problem today that VTA participants do not receive placements with ordinary employers because they do not receive the necessary help to use the workplace covered by public health – of course, private facilities do not. Therefore, I would like to ask the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to take a closer look at this issue and then use the information to assess the need for any changes. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e950	That was an uplifting response from the minister. The reason why I'm addressing this question initially relates to a concrete problem from Empo, which is a permanent organized job in my home municipality. The agreement between Empo and Nav states that they should try to give users their opportunity to work in ordinary working life so that they can have more challenging jobs. This is particularly relevant for users with a disability on a VTA company primarily organised for people with mental retardation. This particular user of Empo has received a refusal to apply for visual aids. It's because Nav sees it as unlikely that she'll get a steady position. How can Nav require VTA companies to try to give users their practical opportunities when they do not want to provide the necessary assistance? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e955	Let me stress that what Nav does in this case, is enough to deal with the legislation. Because, as I say, in order to get tools for work at the same time as you are idle, there has to be a probability that the aid will lead to the loss or reduction of disability. Click to close the curve I think the representative's question is very good; it's a very good issue. So, as I said in my answer, I'm going to ask the Employment and Welfare Directorate to compile information and facts: how many are there? Is it a problem you get feedback about? Is it so that their evaluation on a professional basis is also that here there is – what should I say – two legislation that creeps a little? Then we're going to use it as a starting point for an assessment of whether we're going to change the regulation. In other words, I'm open for that to happen, but I'd like a little bit more facts on the table first. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e962	In this specific case, it can almost be understood that the user has actually been a bit lucky, looking up to the legislation, as the user has visual aids in his permanent job. The problem arose when he was going to a practical place in addition and actually needed twice as much as he could do his job, as these are aids that he cannot take back and forth when he is perhaps out one day. As I see it, these are really two issues: Should people who are in permanent work also be able to obtain a right to help? Click to close the curve Should it then be possible to see whether they should also be brought with you to a practical place? Click to close the curve Will the Council of State look at both of these issues? You have to solve the first one to help in the second case. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e976	I want to look at both of these issues. So it's okay to just add that it's an assumption that it's in the funding system of a VTA site that you should also be able to finance, for example. means for use by those who are there. Click to close the curve As I said, this is a good issue. It's more than worth looking at, and I'm also going to do that. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e986	The President makes it clear that this question will be interpreted in sign language. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e991	My question to the Council of State is this: ‘The service is a prerequisite for the participation of deaf, deaf and hearing-impaired people in society in the same way as others. Repeated investigations have shown, inter alia, shortcomings in the organisation of the service, which in turn undermine the quality of the offer made. Click to close the curve What will the Council of State do to ensure that users have access to the correct interpretation in a timely manner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e998	Thank you for the question. I fully agree with the representative that the interpretation service in charge of the labour and welfare seat is a prerequisite for deaf, deaf and hearing-impaired people to participate in society in the same way as others. It is therefore important that the interpretative service ensures predictable and good services for users. Click to close the curve I am aware that there are challenges in this area. This applies, inter alia, to: challenges of coverage and coverage of some types of assignment, especially in the evening, and that users are not always satisfied with the quality of the services provided. I'm sorry. Click to close the curve I am also aware that there is a systematic and targeted work in the labour and welfare community to further develop the interpreting service with a view to improving services and more predictability for users. A number of actions have been developed in dialogue with user organisations and employees. Efforts have been made to assess different models for the organisation of the interpretative area and a professional programme to strengthen the competence of interpreters. Furthermore, there is work on exploiting technological opportunities related to, for example, the use of imaging or remote interpretation, where this is a good alternative. I assume that this work will in the long term provide a better and more predictable offer to users, and an offer of higher quality. Click to close the curve The ministry is going to follow the ongoing work in the department on improving the service through what we call the governance dialogue with Nav, the directorate, i.e. through meetings where we raise concrete issues. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1009	Thanks for the answer. Click to close the curve I want to focus on what the Council of State was about, that a working group in Nav has now looked at different models for the organisation of the service. Many investigations have been carried out before, and user organisations have their own roadmap for how a person wants the service to be organised in the future. Interpreters also agree with users that many challenges could have been solved if the scope of interpretation, which is currently in Nav tools and organisation, was separated in a separate line, possibly with its own budget and interpretative management. Nevertheless, the Nav working group does not support that solution, but recommends continuing today's organisation. How does the Council of State feel that the workgroup's proposal to keep today's organisation would actually provide economic governance and a better overview of the area of interpretation? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1016	First of all, I think it is a prerequisite for all good processes that you also have a good discussion, good conversations, and get all the input from those who use the services. For the interpretation service, it is particularly important because, as I said at the outset, having a good interpretation service is a prerequisite for a number of people to be able to participate fully in society. Click to close the curve We're also coming from the department to follow the process, but I think it's a very important principle not to go into detail and govern the underlying agencies. This also applies to Nav. That is, we want to have some overall expectations and requirements for, for example. listening to the users. But to go in and add for detailed leadership I'm probably sceptical about. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1023	Thanks for the answer. Click to close the curve I have to admit that I am a little disappointed that the Council of State is so reluctant to enter into a discussion that has been going on completely since 2008 without finding its solution. The Council of State said that it is important to provide user assistance, and the users themselves are asking for a separate unit, a separate line of self-management. Click to close the curve Then my question is, when the Council of State will not go directly into the process: how will the Council of State ensure that the users of the service are taken on board, when Nav seems to have already concluded with the opposite of what users want, and how will the Council of State follow it up in the further governance dialogue? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1032	Also in the process that has been, of course, user organisations, as well as employees, have been involved. Then there's no guarantee that you'll come to an agreement. That's one point. Click to close the curve As I said in my reply, we have some assumptions that we're basing on. That is to say, the work that I presented – which has been started to improve the interpretation service and the offers, make this more predictable and of higher quality – will provide for that very thing. That means that even though I say I'm skeptical about entering into detail management in the underlying offices, there's a clear expectation from our side, and from my side as the Council of State, that this work will provide a better offer, which is more predictable and of higher quality for the users. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1042	‘The AAP action shows in a new study that many people have been denied their application for the AAP or disability benefit as a result of over-testing by the users’ doctor and specialist statements without obtaining additional information from the treating physician. The action group refers to the fact that the Court of First Instance has confirmed that not to obtain such information is a procedural error resulting in the nullity of the decision. Click to close the curve What is the State Council’s assessment of Nav’s widespread practice of ignoring applicants’ medical statements when refusing applications?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1049	I want to give a slightly longer answer than just to give a concrete answer to that very thing, even if I'm going to do it in the end. Click to close the curve The State of work and well-being, i.e. Nav, cooperates with the health services and requests for up-to-date medical information. The establishment needs up-to-date medical documentation to provide information on diagnosis, functioning and the possibility of being in gainful employment. Furthermore, a doctor or specialist shall say something about the patient’s health limitations and opportunities in his or her own work, including, where appropriate, alternative work or not. Click to close the curve It is very important to stress that the health service is responsible for assessing whether a person is ill or injured, while the employment and welfare seat assesses how the disease affects the possibilities of working life, and whether the conditions that we elected for redundancy benefits or disability benefits are met. The health service shall therefore clarify the medical records, while the medical records shall be used to further assess the follow-up and the right to benefits. This means that the Nav case handlers do not review the medical documentation but use it to make their judgements in accordance with the rules of the law on popular protection that they are set to manage and practice. Click to close the curve The fact that a person has documented health problems does not necessarily mean that the conditions for redundancy payments or disability benefits are met. That is how the disease affects the person’s labour market opportunities, which are crucial. In its assessment, the location of work and welfare should also focus on factors other than disease, such as: skills, competences and professional experience. Click to close the curve The State of employment and welfare shall always ensure that the matter is adequately informed before the decision is taken. In cases where sufficient medical information is not available, supplementary information shall be requested by the team. The case handlers in the department also have the possibility of assistance from their own consultants to get a medical assessment of the case, including whether the case is sufficiently informed to assess the right to performance. Furthermore, the seat of employment and welfare shall always state the reasons for its decisions so that the applicant understands how the various information on the matter has been assessed, including the medical aspects. Click to close the curve The AAP action, which is a separate group for the recipients of redundancy payments, helps to make different views visible on the legislation of the scheme and the practice of the labour and welfare haven, and it is useful for the ministry to gain insight. At the same time, it is clear advice for individuals who consider that they have not been dealt with in accordance with the legislation to use legal remedies. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1064	Now the Red Isaac has not only inherited the Nav scandal from his predecessors, but he is also responsible for the crisis that is now affecting thousands of sick people who are increasingly being rejected by Nav and remain standing without any kind of income hedge. In many cases, Nav’s advisory doctor will review the recommendations of the applicants’ counsellors, but these Nav’s advisory doctors do not meet the person to be assessed, nor do they necessarily have expertise in this area. In one case, a gynecologist shall have been asked to consider a case relating to a complex lung disease in the individual concerned. This is mentioned by a lawyer I have been in contact with, as a chronic and extensive legal security problem. Click to close the curve What is the Council of State's assessment that these advisory doctors very often do not even meet patients, but can override the judgements of the decision-makers? And is a Nav decision legally taken if the investigation obligation is not fulfilled by obtaining relevant information from the applicant’s doctor? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1071	The Labour and Welfare Act uses two groups of doctors in the proceedings. It's a consultant, and then it's a specialist. They do a very important and absolutely necessary job to ensure that the occupational welfare and welfare kit provides the basis for proper medical evaluations in their proceedings. Click to close the curve The above 100 advisory doctors are employed in the establishment, so that the case handlers of the Nav office, administrative units and specialised units can obtain advice on social security issues. The task of the advisory doctors is to assess whether a case is sufficiently medically illuminated. Let me underline again: they are not case handlers. They shall not settle the matter. They give an opinion based on their medical competence, that is, they're medically trained. They can, for example, assess the medical information available in a case and provide medical advice to the supervisor and case handler on request. Of course, each case is dealt with individually. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1078	The question concerned the assessment by the Council of State that these advisory doctors, which are of course crucial to the outcome of the case, have not even met the patient or the user. Click to close the curve State Council Isaksen has previously stated that the social security explosion is an unexploded bomb under the welfare community. It merges into a larger image where the right side tries to suspect people who legitimately need community help. At the same time, the government has cut in Nav's budgets over several years, and this has led to less time for case handlers to follow up on those who need Nav's benefits. There was a report from SINTEF in 2016 that showed that, according to Sintef, Nav’s case handlers in many cases have decided to reject the case. Click to close the curve Does the Council of State take these concerns seriously? Does he see the need for a strong upgrade of the entire Nav device after several years of budget cuts? Will he make sure that local Nav staff, who actually know the people involved, have greater access and the ability to make decisions? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1087	There is no reason to suspect people who are too sick to work. It's one of the most important schemes in our welfare community, that we have a guarantee income, health-based benefits, to make sure that if for some reason you can't stand in full employment, you have to have an income to live on. But there is no reason why we should not have good, clear and also strict criteria to be able to get these benefits, and this is not least about the legitimacy and the emergence of our entire welfare system. Click to close the curve Finally, I would like to say that pointing out that Norway has a very large number of people outside the labour market in an international context is a political debate that every responsible politician has to take. Otherwise, I look forward to getting even better acquainted with the employees of Nav and listen to their input. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1097	First of all, I would like to congratulate Asheim on the new post of the Council of State and new responsibilities. Click to close the curve Finally, the government has transferred responsibility for higher vocational education, i.e. vocational school education, from the Council of State responsible for kindergarten, primary and secondary education to the Council of State responsible for research and higher education. This is in line with what the Workers' Party has stressed several times and proposed, not least in the context of the examination of the new Law on Higher Vocational Education, i.e. in connection with Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The government has not proposed any significant investment in this area in its budgets. The Labour Party has called for a clearer promotion and commitment to vocational education in line with what LO and NHO have called for several times. Workers with vocational education are strongly in demand, and we do not need to wait to know if Norway needs this competence to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. So my question is: ‘When will the Council of State submit an escalation plan to meet the major needs of industry for skilled workers with higher vocational education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1106	The President shall, for the sake of order, draw attention to the fact that the representative shall only read the registered question and request that he comply with it. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1111	Thank you for the warm welcome from the representative. I can also say at the personal level that I am very pleased to be responsible for the colleges, and it is not about me as a human being, but about the very recognition that they are under higher education and research. Click to close the curve So I would like to thank the representative Asphjell for giving me the opportunity to talk about the vocational education, or what we can call higher vocational education. But let me first make it clear that the government has not decided to submit a stepping-up plan for higher-education training places. The reason is that we do not have a good enough overview of the full number of applicants and the need for places of study at national level. Therefore, I think it would be unwise to adopt a stepping-up plan without having the numerical basis we need for it to be accurate enough. Click to close the curve In the first instance, the Ministry of Knowledge has commissioned the Directorate for Internationalisation and Quality Development in Higher Education, Diku, to investigate how we can obtain a better system for the allocation of academic places. The aim is for vocational schools to meet the needs of industry for skilled workers with higher vocational education. I'll get a recommendation on this during this spring. Click to close the curve At the same time, I would like to stress that the vocational education sector has been given an extension of this government. With the post-school message, the vocational schools have to mention something: have been elevated to higher vocational education; received study scores right to be part of student relationships; new quality price better transition to higher education We have also increased the number of places to study with a total of 738 places since 2018. The last 2020 budget was allocated to 100 new post-secondary education places. Click to close the curve The number of applicants for the county vocational schools has increased by around 500 years in recent years, and for the 2019 harvest there were 7,369 applicants. Now in April, the first coordinated post-secondary education programme is being carried out. It will be a major milestone to make vocational education visible side by side with university and higher education. I expect that the search for the vocational schools will increase further when the education enters the Coordinated Recording. Click to close the curve For the fourth time, specialised school development funds shall be published in 2020. The aim of the funds is to improve the quality of education and to ensure a good match between the provision of education and the competence of the labour market. For 2020, Stortinget has granted 43.2 million. kr for this purpose. Click to close the curve Diku has also been granted 7.5 million. to publicise funds for specialised schools, universities and colleges wishing to find good transitional arrangements between their education. Click to close the curve These selected initiatives in the vocational education sector I believe show that we are doing well in the long-term post-secondary vocational education. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1148	Industry, technology and health are among those who need more skilled workers with this competence. Several reports and projects have been requested. The NHO competence survey clearly shows the demand of the business community for higher vocational education. It is therefore important to step up intensively the provision of vocational education so that the working life of the future can meet the need for the skills they need to be competitive. Click to close the curve I was the case rapporteur for the handling of this big message, and all these measures were then proposed, among others. From the Labour Party, so it's very good that the Council of State has noticed all these good things. But there is no doubt that the 100 places that the government has invested for 2020 will not be in close proximity enough given the business demand. So I want to ask again: does it really mean that the government and the state council won't promise more college places? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1155	I'm glad that the Workers' Party also has a commitment to the colleges, but they had to go into opposition to get it. It was when we took over the government power, that this was lifted on all the points I have mentioned, also that they now get study credits and are part of the relationships, which is an important recognition. Click to close the curve So it's absolutely right, as the representative Asphjell says, that there are 100 places in the 2020 budget. But it's coming up, so there's a total of 738 new places since 2018. Click to close the curve So that's how it is – and I think it's an important milestone that I know that the vocational schools are also happy – that now the first coordinated vocational school admission is being carried out. I think it would be stupid now just to start a escalation plan before you, for example. See the applicant figures, see where the needs are, and there is also a need for close dialogue with the business community, and not least with the trade union movement about: where the needs are. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1164	The Labour Party shall have inter alia: proposed to use 20 million. to strengthen adapted continuing education and training for vocational teachers. Like other teachers, vocational teachers need to develop their skills so that education is developed professionally and educationally for the benefit of teachers, students and, in particular, industry. Has the government been given a new view of the needs of the vocational teachers, and what do the vocational schools mean in society, or does it continue to have low ambitions on behalf of the vocational schools also at that point? Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1169	Although the representative repeats that this government has no ambitions for the technical schools, I believe that the history has shown that it does not. All we've done, not only in terms of money – because there's been a lot of money too, more places of study, upgrading the offer – but also the important recognition of this as part of Norwegian higher education, is something I'm very proud of, and I'm glad that the Workers' Party has so far agreed. Click to close the curve Then I now understand that the Workers' Party wants 20 million. for continuing training of teachers in the vocational schools. That's an interesting suggestion. It's a typical budgetary issue that we also have to discuss with us, and I, as the Council of State that is responsible for the vocational schools, will work closely with them also on what needs they have in the future. Click to close the curve In fact, this is now part of our education system that is going to grow and become more relevant. I'm glad, but we also have to see it in connection with the applicants we get through the Coordinate Recording. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1185	This question has been withdrawn. Click to close the curve Case No. So 2 is done. Click to close the curve
ParlaMint-NO_2020-02-12.ana.ud414e1201	There is no record. Click to close the curve Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled. Click to close the curve
