ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e43	From the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Svein Roald Hansen, Martin Henriksen, Nils Aage Jagstad, Ketil Kjenseth, Magne Rommetveit, Nina Sandberg and Hanne Dyveke Søttar apply for leave from 2 to 7 February, all to participate in the study tour of representatives to Brussels. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for Hordaland, Leif Audun Sande, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Magne Rommetveís, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet from 3 to 6 February: For Akershus: Kjartan Berland and Mani Hussaini For Hordaland: Linda Monsen Merkesdal For Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For Uppland: Stine Renate Håheim and Ingerd Thon Hagaseth For Troms: Kari-Anne Opsal For Østfold: Siv Henriette Jacobsen
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e124	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e129	On behalf of the representatives Eva Kristin Hansen, Magne Rommetveit, Freddy André Øvstegård, Hans Inge Myrvold and myself, I unfortunately have to submit a proposal for a representative on the requirement for the delivery of documents from the meeting on 25 October 2019 between the Council of State Anniken Hauglie and Nav Director Sigrun Vågeng. Because this is a matter that we have to deal with and that is urgent, I ask that it be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e136	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e141	I would like to make a representative proposal to stop the NorthConnect power export cable. Red proposes urgent consideration of the proposal.. It is important for the uncertainty of the parties concerned, both industry, trade and, in particular, the power industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e148	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e153	On behalf of the representative Emilie Enger Mehl and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative that the process of merging courts in Eastfold be suspended and placed in the context of the work of the Court of Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e158	The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e164	On behalf of Siv Mossleth, Heidi Greni, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to amend the regulations for the use of motor vehicles in the field and on ice watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e169	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the outset, there will now be a vote on cases No. 1-3, and the President therefore asks the representatives to remain in office.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e189	A new fifth Vice President shall be elected after Abid Q. Raja, who has become a member of the Government. The President is asking for a new fifth Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e196	I suggest Ingjerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e201	The Ingerd Schou is proposed as the new fifth vice-president. Other proposals have not been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e211	The Ingerd Schou is then unanimously elected to the new fifth vice president of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e226	Since Ingerd Schou has been a vision secretary, Stortinget must also select a new vision secretary. The President is asking for a new Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e233	I suggest Ingunn Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e238	Ingunn Foss has been proposed as new Secretary of State. Other proposals have not been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e248	Ingunn Foss is then unanimously elected new Vice-Secretary of State in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e265	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. - No objections have been raised. The President's proposal is then deemed to be adopted. No one has asked for the floor, and we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e274	The Committee had decided to do the following: decision: The Labour and Social Committee shall have 12 members. The Health and Welfare Committee shall have 14 members. The Judicial Committee shall have 12 members. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee shall have 10 members.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e302	The President, after convening with the parliamentary leaders, will arrange the debate as follows: Only the parliamentary leaders and the Prime Minister will be involved in the debate. The allocated speaking time shall be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and shall be allocated by 10 minutes to each of the parliamentary leaders and 10 minutes to the Prime Minister. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies from the parliamentary leaders and up to thirteen lines with replies from the Prime Minister. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e313	The government has gone from being a majority government to once again becoming a minority government. But the starting point is the same – the majority is made up of the four non-socialist parties Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. We have had good cooperation for six and a half years, both in minority government and in majority government, and not least we have had good cooperation in the Storing all this time – and long before that. Right is grateful for the cooperation with the Progress Party in government and looks forward to good and constructive cooperation here on the Stortinget. The government has shown for several years that it can control the country safely with a minority government. We're going to keep doing that in the next few years. Our policy has given Norway good economic growth. We have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years, and new jobs are created in urban and rural areas – jobs that create well-being for more people and help create a sustainable welfare society. The Solberg government inherited a school with high dropouts and mediocre results. Since then, a lot has happened. The students learn more, they are more present, and more complete. High-ranking apprentices get a place to learn. Norwegian transport policy has experienced a crazy change of pace. The budgets have increased by 80 pst. – actually – and it has never been built as much motorway as in 2019, while large railway extensions are in progress. That's good for road safety, and not least it's good for districts. At the same time, greenhouse gas emissions have been at their lowest since 1995. No government until we've managed to cut the corresponding, and we're going to cut even more and faster in the years that come. We got the oil crisis and the refugee crisis in jail on our guard. We got Norway safely through both crises. An important reason for this is that we jointly managed to come to a good settlement. Perhaps it is one of the best characteristics of the Norwegian political tradition: the ability and willingness to land wide settlements across party boundaries to the best of Norway. First of all, the four government parties, both inside and outside government, have agreed on a direction for the country – a direction for a greener, more modern and safer Norway. But also across the blocks, we have come up with good solutions together. Especially when the country is hit by major crises, it is important that consensus is broad and that we agree on the solutions. This gives stability to the country, and I will draw it out as one of the best in Norwegian parliamentarianism. The Granavolden platform will be the basis for the further work of the government. The four non-socialist parties agreed last year on a direction for the country. That direction is firm, and the government is already in the process of following up on the policy we have agreed on. Our job in the future is to ensure a sustainable welfare society, not just for next year, but for the decades to come. In the years that come, this won't be a simple problem. We know that the challenges are many: More older and fewer oil jobs will put the welfare under pressure. New technologies will provide opportunities, but will also require new and different skills from employees. The temperature of the globe is rising, and we have to cut the emissions faster. Our security is threatened by new forms of crime, and police and defence must be modernised. These challenges must be addressed before they become too big. That's why the government is launching several big bets. We are going to implement a skills reform in the labour market so that no one is going to experience going out on a date in Norwegian working life. More people should also be able to work longer. We must be able to learn all our lives. It's in itself a privilege to do that. But it's also a big problem that many people stay out of work. It's a matter for the welfare state, and it's a problem for the individual who does it. Everyone wants to manage themselves, be part of the community and contribute to society. We have to make sure that no one stays outside, and we have to find solutions that make those that are not 100 pst. working, however, can contribute. Norwegian work life must be inclusive. We're going to have a society where there's opportunities for everyone. To achieve that, we have to start at school. School is our most important tool in the fight against social differences. A good school lifts the student and gives opportunities, but it's only if the school is good. If it's not, the differences it has to be our goal to equalize. The most important thing in school is the teacher. Since 2013, more than 27 000 teachers have received continuing training. We have introduced a master's degree for teachers, increased intake requirements and required skills. The government is continuing the teacher's vow, and we're going to increase the number of teachers' specialists by 3,000 within four years. We will also introduce mandatory English in Vg2 and Vg3 and one extra real-time in a week. To spring, the perspective message is presented. The perspective communication has a long tradition in Norwegian policy. It points to the challenges of the future and what choices we need to take in the future to create a sustainable welfare society. It is usually presented at the end of the pouring period, but the government is accelerating it by one year. This will be an important work, because the Norwegian welfare model is under pressure. We need to find new sources of income that provide security for the well-being of our children and grandchildren, and we need to create new jobs that replace those that the technology leads to is no longer needed. Norway shall be a safe country to live in. The government is now working on a new long-term defence plan. We have already strengthened the commitment to the defence significantly. When we took over, Norway used 1.4 pst. of GDP on defence. Now we're at 1.8 pst. In fact, there is something more to be done in those appropriations, but there has been a significant increase. In the long-term plan, we will look at how we can strengthen the defence further in order to ensure the security of our citizens. In 2019 the new word of the year was «climate roars». We who sat here, heard well these noises from the outside, and it made the impression. Now it was also us in this room that the air conditioner was aimed at. Many are concerned about the future and the planet. We have to cut emissions faster than today. It's urgent to get green solutions in place. The Government shall draw up a greenhouse gas emission reduction plan. The professional basis will be provided in a short time. The right-wing group is delighted to read the proposals. We're going to make a plan to cut emissions, not development. It is already announced that we will receive an annual emission budget from 2021, in order to ensure that we reach the commitment from the Paris agreement. Norway has the best conditions to succeed in the green shift, develop future climate solutions and create new, green jobs. We are now building the world’s largest floating sea wind farm, the world’s most environmentally friendly industrial installations for aluminium production and the world’s most environmentally friendly ship fleet. 80 low- and zero-emission ferries are now under construction and by 2022 more than one third of the country's car ferries will have electric propulsion. What distinguishes us from the left is that we want to implement the green shift in collaboration with business. We now see how companies like Equinor and Statkraft go ahead. In my home country, Buskerud, Statkraft is now building a new second-generation biofuel plant. Equinor, on its side, has announced a plan for zero emissions on the Norwegian base. This is the initiative Right applause. All of these challenges are for the government to find good solutions, and now that we're a minority government, it means more discussions here in the Storting. The majority of the population, however, is still stable. The parties who have worked together for six years and who have won two elections together have a majority in this Chamber. It is therefore natural that we first go to the Progress Party to get a majority in our affairs. Then the discussions with the Progress Party will decide whether we can cooperate with other parties in individual matters. This is also a tradition of Norwegian policy and nothing new for the Right. The right will still be the right. Our vision is still to create opportunities for everyone. We will fight for our issues: a school that promises students the freedom to choose treatment and treatment for patients, a responsible economic policy and security for Norwegian citizens. Then we have the greatest control of government policy. That's where we get the most impact on Right Policy, and that's after all the political breakthrough we're here for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e371	Even if the Progress Party is out of government, there is a lot that will continue as before. It says Erna Solberg himself, who points to the Granavolden platform, and it says the Progress Party, which points to Erna Solberg. We in the Labour Party think that we need a Norway that is more fair. It's about the distribution of power, and it's about the distribution of money, and then you also have to talk about pay differentials. We see that the pay gap is increasing most rapidly in the public sector, not in private, and according to the SSB, it's because in recent years it's been setting up a number of new directorates and public agencies, and all of these are filled with leaders who have million wages. So my question is simple: what does the Right think about them now, for almost seven years, has contributed to the fact that there have been more public added millionaires, while we see that the wage earners who have the lowest wages experience that their real wages have fallen?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e376	I think it's important that we have a good public sector, a high-quality public sector. Yesterday I heard a debate about consulting in the state, and if you're going to reduce it, it's at least important that we have the best minds to work in the public sector. But I'm not happy that pay differentials are increasing most in the public sector. I think it must be important to make sure that we also have a policy that promises those who can afford the worst. This has been done by the government, since we now have the lowest unemployment rate in ten years, that we have good growth in the economy – and not least that we have the economy in order – and that we are constantly careful that Norway is competitive in the fight for export revenue for Norwegian business. So I think we're on the right track, but there's always things you can adjust, without me going into any pay negotiations on behalf of the public sector. I don't need that. I think it's important that we have a good public sector, and then one also has to pay someone what it costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e383	It's kind of funny to say that one isn't happy with a development with several public added millionaires, while there's a situation created by the right-wing government itself. We already know that with the highest wages over the last seven years, they've gotten almost a hundred times more in tax cuts than those with the lowest incomes. We know that the richest pull off, and we know that the poorest can't keep up. And even if wages are determined by the social partners, it is now time for the creation of new directorates to be determined by the government. Tax cuts that enhance differences between people are determined by the government. And the proposal that the Workers' Party is making today, about pension ignition from the first dollar, is also something that the government and the government can agree to decide. But my question is, if the right-wing government doesn't want to use any of these tools to bring down the differences between people, what tool does the right-wing government intend to use?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e390	The most important instrument we use is the massive effort we have in continuing training, in reform of skills, in raising skills, because we know that the labour market is now changing dramatically. It is only to be seen in the trade in goods, for example, with the new technological solutions there that require a new thinking, even in terms of the competence of employees. So the most important fight now is to make sure that we have a staff in Norway, the workers, who have the skills necessary to meet the future we are now in, with major technological changes. This will contribute to a more skilled workforce. One will be more able to balance pay differentials by having the relevant labour force available, and that effort – at both school, teacher training, continuing training and skills reform, so that people can stand in the job throughout their lives and be competent – is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e395	Oil and gas industries are the second most important industries in Norway. It is the starting point for the welfare development we have had. It creates thousands of jobs across the country. It allows many to live «No one would believe that anyone could live», commute to work in the North Sea, feed the family and live in our amazing districts. Many companies also live by this industry by supplying equipment for the oil and gas industry. The fact that the Workers' Party is waving on these questions is not surprising, as they do in most themes now. What is far more worrying, and which occupies a lot of people who are now working on a Norwegian base, is the fact that within the Right you are now going in the wrong direction. We have noticed Oslo Right, who wants a new course in oil policy. We hear from the Young Right that they're in the same galley. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative of Greece: is there any reason to worry that the Right can change course?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e402	It is always the case that a political party that is in the process of being developed has discussions about its policy. But it's very far from the fact that Oslo Right has adopted what they've done, to say that the Right has changed course. We are now going to have serious discussions in the programme work. It's very easy to put a line on where the edge of the ice should go, that one should not get an impact assessment and know what's really going on in the area – I have little sense of that. I have to say that the Minister of Defence had a good answer to the Oslo Right challenge – a humorous answer. I believe there is a lot of evidence to suggest that the right in the debate we have now about the green shift and the development of the oil industry, of course, must have serious debates on the different themes, but there is little evidence that there is some major revolution going on in the Right. We are going to be on a predictable and good oil policy also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e407	A large joint project of the Right-Fremskrit Party government was centralisation. Whatever the area of society, centralisation and economies of scale were the answer, and the Progress Party was at the forefront of several of these reforms. Now there are two samples left after the Progress Party. It's the power tax committee, which Siv Jensen put down, that's going to go through the electricity tax revenue. When you see the mandate, there is no doubt that you have to go through the incomes of district municipalities. The conclusion of the power tax committee that was set down was a run of the country’s district municipalities. In Buskerud, that's what's called the Week now – I choose to call it Buskerud, because that's a finer name – they cut 246 273 562 kroner in that proposal, approx. 250 million. kr. Greece travels around and says it is a bad suggestion. Now Siv Jensen is out of government offices. Is the report being torn up in fillets and thrown, or is it being further worked on?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e415	I don't think it's Siv Jensen who wrote that report. There was a selection to configure. As I said in Hallingdölen – as the national press should refer more often – when Trygve and I had a debate there on Monday, that selection has delivered a record bomb. I believe what they have supplied was a record bomb, because when they wanted to improve the concession power system, they proposed instead to remove it. It must be a record bomb. What was the point of the Sanderud sample was that one should increase the appetite for investment in the power sector. But when you look at the hearing opinions, it is a massive resistance to it – both from Energy Norway and from all the municipalities. I don't mean you have to take it, tear everything healthy and lift it. You have to go through the report seriously. But that the municipalities of Norway are going to risk losing all their power revenues, I am completely opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e420	That's exactly what Greece says at the end there, I fear – ‘to lose all its power’. Before Christmas, the bulk of the population chose to say no to a small part of the electricity tax range. It was abolished with a base rate tax on the smallest power plants – a wise decision – but the main features of the report, which is about taking large revenues from small municipalities around the whole of Norway, moved them into the Ministry of Finance and then to distribute them again. Greece is now saying, that's completely decent, not all of the power revenues. But how much of the force income does the Right want to take? And if you don't want to go on with it, it's a shame that Jan Tore Sanner is going to spend time on it. Then it's much wiser if he can spend time on something else – simplify everyday life for people, bring down the consulting in the state, make sure that you don't spend more money on public relations agencies. There is a lot of a government council can spend time instead of spending time on a poor report on draining income from Norwegian municipalities. My advice is, to bring down the consultancy and bring down the bureaucracy: Cut the report – don't take any money. Can you follow that advice, Helleland?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e425	I heard Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum in a debate – it was probably yesterday at Dagsnytt 18 – about consulting in the state. He was very opposed to that now. But he was very much for public investigation. It was important, and that's how you were going to do it. This is a NOU, as far as I know, after the setting of the Sanderud Committee. It's not always you get the answers you want in the NOUs either. I have been very clear to the newly appointed Minister of Finance, and he knows exactly what I mean about this. Of course, I'm one of the mountain people, who knows what force income means to the municipalities. When I say I don't want to make big changes to it, I mean it. Today's system seems to work well, but it can't be that you don't have any serious debate about how to increase the investment will in hydropower, because I think we can get a lot more out of the hydropower we have in Norway today, and we need green energy in the future. But the municipalities shouldn't have sleepless nights. I think they should still be optimists on behalf of their income base.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e432	I am pleased that the representative spent time talking about climate in his post, but the burden of proof remains – to see what the Right and Government parties are presenting. If you are concerned with climate and natural diversity, you have to be concerned about the ice edge – spring, or perhaps the year’s, all the most important climate and environmental issues. Where the open seas and the ice meet, there are unique natural values with phytoplankton, ice caps, rings, white whales and several other species of red-listed both nationally and internationally. We know that if something serious happens there, it has serious consequences. All the environmental floors have established that the edge of the ice should be moved further south. It's just the Oil Directorate that, revealingly, will move the edge of the ice further north. The Granavolden platform states that emphasis should be placed on environmental advice. There is now a discussion in the Right, and the Government will present proposals in the Stortinget. I think there's one thing right should be able to clarify today, and that's whether the Right will base the environmental advice when the party deals with the issue of the ice edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e439	I do not think a government in Norway can fail to provide environmental advice when deciding such an important question, but we also need to base other questions. We have to evaluate this. I'm surprised how sloppy someone can be at just where that ice threshold is going to go. That's why I'm waiting for the work that's going on in the government, and I'm waiting for the discussion we get here in the Stortinge, because here it's very difficult – except for some – to have a very safe answer to exactly where this limit is. I did not hear any sure response from SV either, but it was moving it south. It is, like, the discussion that is important. What are the technical advice – both environmental and other advice? Of course, the environmental advice will be very important in this balance. That is why this is also a difficult matter. We want to make good use of the oil resources we have, but of course we don't want to eradicate red-listed species that live on the edge of the ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e449	I am incredibly proud of much of what the Advance Party has accomplished in government for six and a half years. As the second largest party in the government, we were reelected in 2017, with almost the same upswing as when we joined the government in 2013. We went to government because we wanted to implement our policy, and so have we. For the Progress Party, government participation has always been an instrument and not an objective in itself. We are proud that the inheritance tax – or death tax, as it was often called – is history, that we have reduced taxes and taxes by over 25 billion. kr, although of course we believe that there is room for more special tax relief in the future, and that we reduced the curtailment of the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. We are proud that we have increased the transport budget by more than 80 p.m., that we managed the biggest migration crisis in Norway in recent history and have tightened up immigration policy and implemented measures that we have previously been totally alone about, and that we led the country quickly through the dramatic oil price drop with powerful and effective measures. We are proud that we have revolutionised the transport sector with New Roads, so the state road system monopoly is broken and we are building roads faster and cheaper than before, and that train sections are exposed to competition, which means more departures and better train provision. The first four years we were part of a popular government, although of course it was also tough thanks then, both internally in the government and as a result of negotiations in the Storting, but over the last few years the enthusiasm has gradually become more and more gone. Over time there has been a policy of too many grey compromises and a policy without direction. The progress party could stand in both negative cases and some grey compromise if the breakthroughs had been greater. When the matter with a terrorist IS woman came, it created a new challenge. The progress party has always been willing to bring innocent children home, but for us the limit went by also actively bringing this woman home. Now, the Progress Party finds itself in position as an opposition party in Stortinget, and it is our party program that is the starting point for our work in Stortinget. There's going to be a lot of important things in the future that we're going to have clear and clear positions on. The Progress Party also made it clear that we saw no reason to point to a Prime Minister other than Erna Solberg, and I notice that the Prime Minister is laying the foundations for the government's work on the Granavolden platform. Although, as I said, the Progress Party is the basis of our party program for our work in Stortinget, there are points in the Granavolden platform that I expect the Prime Minister to have a special focus on following up. Let me mention a few issues: increasing the general age limit in the country to 72 years, transferring several foreign citizens who commit crime, to restitution in the country of origin, further restrictions on immigration, continued efforts to reduce taxes and taxes and, not least, to bring down the wealth tax on working capital, of course, not to increase the user's tax on petrol and diesel, to ensure free choice of home services, to further develop the kitchen subsidy system in the hospital, to secure the test project with State funding of the care of the elderly, to speed up the work on simplification in planning and construction matters, which the Progress Party has been working for a long time, to double the infrastructure fund, to reduce the burden of bombing, and not least to step up the appropriations for Norwegian Defence. Then, of course, it will be up to the government to present political issues that are the basis for finding solutions to the Progress Party. We will be constructive and tidy, but of course we will have an impact on our own policies. A Prime Minister Gahr Støre does not appear to be a particularly attractive alternative for the Progress Party. It means higher taxes, it means less freedom of choice for most people, it means more state, less private, and it means more winging. But it is also up to the government of Solberg to be a real alternative to a Gahr Støre-led alliance. If the government in major and important matters finds it more topical to cooperate on the left in politics, it is a policy choice that the Progress Party will notice. Let me conclude by saying that this representative bonus for the other opposition parties. This only bears the mark of political games. The party of progress is not in control of this. We will make our choices and promote our own proposals in the future when the time comes. We don't have much time. There is a long way to go until the next election, and everything doesn't need to be clarified in the first few weeks where the Progress Party finds its place as a constructive opposition party. I have also noticed all the solutions proposed by the other opposition parties in the Chamber today. To that I can say that the Progress Party will vote against all the proposals. Some of the proposals are simply about opening doors, some are pointing towards revised national budgets – and yes, there is a lot to negotiate when the government presents revised national budgets to spring. Then I see that it is a proposal for a report on the charging policy. It is quite unnecessary and a proposal that the Progress Party will not at least support. We do not need to have a notification about the charging policy. What we are going to do in the charging policy is to continue to reduce taxes and taxes, and it requires decision-making, not a notification. Many of the proposals are also linked to issues which have already been dealt with in some form in the Grand Duchy, and of course there are also proposals in which the Progress Party disagrees. It is in particular a explanation of vote as to why the Progress Party is going to vote against all the proposals promoted by the other opposition parties today. Otherwise, I hope for constructive cooperation in Stortinget, where the Progress Party will have an impact on matters that mean a lot to us and our voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e477	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e482	Let me also say that we look forward to getting acquainted with the Progress Party when they are going to participate in the ‘representative bonus’. I have never experienced that kind of work here, but the Progress Party will certainly make its good contribution to it. I'm a little curious to hear a little bit closer to an experienced parliamentarian and politician like Siv Jensen, who chooses to take his party out of government, because she's going to get a bigger impact on the outside. She'll be part of the same majority. Now she has a very selective list of things in the Granavolden platform she expects through. There will be a debate between the government parties and the Progress Party. But it might be interesting to hear: in what areas does she expect to have a greater impact by being in the Storting than by being in government? It may be useful for other parties to learn about that experience after six and a half years in prison, how to experience free life, and what joy it will give – whether it's with footlinks or what it is, you can wonder about. Can the representative Jensen give a review of what impact she expects to get in the Stortinget that she could not get in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e489	Let me first repeat what I said in my introduction: the party of progress is proud of much of what we have achieved over the six and a half years we have taken responsibility and run the country. I mean, we've crashed well. I believe that we have shown the ability to rule, to take responsibility, both when things are going well, and when there are demanding things that come on the agenda. We've been doing that for six and a half years, but that's how it came to a point where we found it more correct to step out of government. That doesn't mean that we have expectations that we're going to get through for everything the Progress Party thinks, but that means that we couldn't stand in any longer to be part of a government that we didn't experience pulling the policy in the direction we wanted. We're going to be a responsible opposition party, just like we've been a responsible government party. That means we're not going to take part in all of the bonanza proposals that the Workers' Party and other opposition parties are now adding up. There are rematches that I see no reason why we should throw ourselves over without having thought carefully about in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e494	The reason why I'm asking is that if she's going to have a greater impact outside the government than in the government, it has to mean that she's making agreements with other parties, other majority on the government. Otherwise she was in a government that had a majority, depending on the fact that the Progress Party was involved in finding solutions. If she is to have greater insight from the opposition, it must mean that she has to do it with the opposition. Now I'm not used to Siv Jensen always responding to what she's asked for, but can she sketch some areas? We have today proposed that we address the issue of disability pensioners, which are among the most vulnerable in our society. The government wants to remove the screening plugin for this group, a plugin that compensates for inability to work in a difficult transition phase. We propose to maintain this display plugin. There is one example where you could then turn open doors, as the representative Jensen says – if there is a majority for a matter, it is really for the majority to open doors. Can the representative say in what areas it is she thinks she's going to get the extra in the Storting that she doesn't get in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e502	I think I basically answered that in my previous answer, namely that the reason why the Progress Party went out of government was not that we think we get more insight by sitting in opposition, but that we could not take responsibility for the direction in which the majority government went. Then I would say that the path to a long and happy partnership between the Progress Party and the Labour Party is endless, for it may well be that the Progress Party and the Labour Party can agree on some proposals that increase the state's expenditure, but I cannot imagine in my wildest imagination that the Labour Party and the Advance Party can come to an agreement on containment. Where the Workers' Party systematically covers all its expenditure increases by means of strong tax reinforcements, the Advance Party looks for other instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e509	My vision and dream of living together don't think I'm fooled by the fact that it's not with Siv Jensen, even though I have a lot of respect for her. I think we can find areas where the bulk of the population can take the responsibility of the majority of the population. But let me end by asking questions about what is – I kept saying – the mother of all politics, the state budget. It is a budget to be revised now until spring. That is what the Siv Jensen budget was doing here. Is it true that the Progress Party – it may be okay to hear it now – is the natural budgetary partner of the 2021 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e514	We welcome an invitation from the government parties to negotiate the content of both the upcoming revised national budget and the state budget for 2021. As I also said in my post: This depends a lot on what lies on the government's proposal, how steep it gets, how many rematches it's added up to, how challenging the discovery becomes. The Progress Party will, as I said, be a constructive party that will sit down and try to find solutions, but that means, of course – and I don't think that surprises anyone – that the Progress Party will have an impact on areas that are important to us, for our voters, for the everyday lives of ordinary people around the whole country. That's what the Progress Party is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e519	I understand that former Minister of Finance Siv Jensen does not want a tax return, because she is the Minister of Finance who has had the highest fees in Norway ever. According to her own reply to Stortinget, the fees were 6.3 billion. kr higher after Siv Jensen had run the policy, than they were when Sigbjørn Johnsen, Arbeiderpartiet and the Zenterpartie left the government in 2013. It's a new fee record. The Senterung decided to hire Siv Jensen as a tax queen, and she is the finance minister who has more than ever increased the fees. She is also very proud to have been in government. Today I saw that Vestby FrP had a very good play: «The path is an artificial thing with no special purpose and meaning». I could not agree more. The progress party representative, Engen-Helgheim, actually said the same thing last week, and then he obviously got a phone call from Siv Jensen saying that he was not allowed to say it any more. Siv Jensen is proud of Viken? Does she think that there is a reform without any particular objective and meaning? If she really agrees with the representatives of the Progress Party in Vestby and Engen-Helgheim, can we not go together and get rid of this strange state and release Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e528	What the Progress Party is going to do in the context of regional reform is going to come back to in a short time. Then Battle Force Vedum will get an answer to that. I think I see tendencies towards a slight panic at the representative Battle Violence Vedum by day, and I understand that. His opponent's playroom has become a little smaller now, and it becomes visible, I think, to some people that many of the suggestions and plays that the Center Party comes with, it's quite unthinkable that they'll get through with the alliance partners they've chosen. The central party later, as if it were to reduce tax and tax pressures in that country, but even in its own alternative budget, they increase the overall tax burden. They will also cooperate with parties that will even more, which will increase taxes and charges for ordinary people, business, etc. It's not a believer, and I think a lot of the voters see it. A fee notification does not lower a single fee – it's just words.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e535	When the Progress Party came into government, Tord Lien became Minister of Energy. One of his obvious plays from when he was an energy minister was that he was tired of low power prices. That's what he thought was terrible things. He was really tired of low power prices, and the government has done what it can to change. Among other things, former Minister of Finance Siv Jensen increased electricity charges in Norway by almost 40 pst. Nor has there been any higher electricity charges than it was during Siv Jensen. Back to regional reform: the Progress Party used its power in Stortinget to force it through. You chose to exceed 87 pst. by the population of Finnmark when they had a referendum. This was to be done – cost what it would cost! It was decided to carry out a merger that goes from Hol Municipality and Hemsedal to Hyler and Halden – a hugely strange construction. Is it so to understand that the Progress Party is now really willing to sit down and discuss it to lift that construction, and that they can apologize to the voters for putting such strange things on the land?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e544	As I just said, the Progress Party will announce in a short time what we are doing with regard to the issue of regional reform. Then Slagsvold Vedum will be satisfied with his curiosity. So to the question of the electricity price: here the centre part must at least look itself in the mirror. After all, it was the central party in the government that provided for the existing foreign tables – not this government. When the Senterpartiet was in government, no proposal was made to reduce the electricity charge. I did. It's the heart of the matter, so Battle Force Vedum would like to talk yellow and blue, back and forth, and try to create the impression that the Center Party is now going to get through all of this, but the truth is that when you look at the partners of the Center Party, it's not conceivable that they will get a pass on any of what they're trying to lure the voters into. I think the voters are going to reveal that in time to the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e551	The party of progress has gone out of government because it became so gray and boring. They could no longer stand for the policy that was pursued. That's understandable, because despite the beautiful promises of the Progress Party to make everyday life the best for people, the government has made brutal, unsocial cuts to prioritize the billionaires. Therefore SV now gives Siv Jensen the opportunity to correct old sins. We have proposed to reverse the cuts in the disability and child supplement, correct in recent years the purchasing power of many old-age pensioners, reverse the cuts in the children's spectacle support, reverse the cuts in free physiotherapy for victims of fire damage and reverse the cuts in work clearance money, to mention something. Will Siv Jensen take time and think carefully, as it is called, to straighten out the hard cuts against the people most, now that the Advance Party is free from the so-called prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e558	Let me remind you again of what I said in my main post, which is all that the Advance Party is proud to have accomplished while we were in government. It's not that we don't realize much of what we've been doing over these 6.5 years. That was the way forward The Progress Party was dealing with when we found out that we were going to withdraw from the government. So, of course, many of the questions that the SV representative just referred to are budgetary issues, to which the Progress Party will naturally come back when it is natural to do so, whether it is linked to the revised national budget or the state budget for 2021. We will have ample opportunity in the future to assess which areas of activity it will be important for the Progress Party to increase its efforts. I agree with every tax relief that the government of the Progress Party was part of, has implemented – simply because they have been important to strengthen value creation in Norway, instead of sending capital and jobs out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e565	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e570	This is the third year in a row we in Stortinget have a debate on government changes. Erna Solberg's majority dream lasted quite exactly one year. So-called broad-based civil cooperation between the four parties proved to be difficult. So now we've got the fourth episode in the series on the Solberg government. It is now a minority government based on 61 representatives in the Stortinget. Solar parliamentaryism has also culminated in this. The party that gave rise to the term, and that still said one thing in government and something else in the Storting, the Advance Party, is now out of government. The governmental parties who sit back shall continue to govern the platform on which the four parties, including the Advance Party, agreed. The first signs of the road further came already on the day the Progress Party went out of government. They show that the Progress Party is prepared to be a supporting party for the government when needed. Yes, one could almost understand that there was already some kind of understanding here that the Progress Party should ensure the government a majority both for the revised national budget and for the State budget for the autumn. Throughout all the four stages of the government of Solberg, the central party has been the most obvious opposition party to government policy. We'll keep doing that. The Prime Minister's statement on Tuesday did not provide much guidance on where the government will go in the next 20 months. It was very short. Then it is all the more important that the government has determined that the government will base the Granavolden Declaration on its work. In the opinion of the Central Party, ruling on the Granavolden Declaration means that centralisation policy will continue with undiminished force. The most obvious thing in the Granavolden statement was that the party was told that the municipal reform should continue, and that it should be one of the main government performance projects. This means that the county officials have once again been assigned to press the municipalities to sit at gatherings and seminars to ‘earms’ for pooling. At the same time, work continues to distort the local economy so that the small municipalities are punished. At all, it looks like the government's mantra about equivalent services is just a mantra. For the local economy is still tightening up. Equivalence does not extend to the full funding of the nursery code, it does not extend to the extent that the requirements and obligations imposed by the State are taken into account by the counties and municipalities. We've seen that in the last few months when it comes to the coastal states. The coastal states came out particularly poorly when the Right Party and the Advance Party changed the cost keys for the counties. They have come badly because the state has promised elfs in the counties, but they have not been willing to pay for that promise. The state will not take responsibility, and more states have had to increase ferry prices so that it goes hard on ordinary people. The government is sitting and looking at, sailing if they know inside that the problem arises because of too small appropriations from the state to the states. The government is betting everything on one card: that bakers should be set for blacksmiths and that voters should not understand the context. Last week, the Progress Party went out into what I would call a sort of ‘opposition rush’, and would transform into the merger of the Vikings and Troms and Finnmark. Then they suddenly retreated after a few days. The enthusiasm turned quickly, to great disappointment for many of their own voters in Buskerud, in Akershus, in Eastfold, in Troms and in Finnmark. Now, suddenly, nothing will be done about regional reform anyway. Centralisation should also continue through a regional reform that no one really understands. This means that the voters will have to decide on this reform in the next fall. Another clear sign that centralisation is going to continue, we got this week, when the right parties voted down the Central Party's proposal to stop the centralisation of the court. The centre party considers that it is not acceptable for two thirds of the district courts in Norway to be closed. It means fewer government jobs in the districts and greater distance from the judiciary for very many. Again, the government allows structure to precede content and quality. Everything suggests that the main task of the Progress Party in the Storting will be to support the right-wing government. They'll protest on some points, they'll raise the tab high in individual matters, but they'll be on most of the way. The party is now doing its utmost to distance itself from its own government project, for which they have been fully responsible for six years and three months. They do because, as a prominent Progress Party politician said recently, ‘the government is completely unpopular.’ The observation is usually correct, but the Progress Party has missed out on a central fact. If the government is ‘dirty unpopular’, it is primarily about policy. And if the centralization policy continues with unimpaired force, it hardly helps the Progress Party to sit in the Storting and give the government its blessing for further centralization. What happened last week was, in effect, that the Progress Party declared that the rest of the ageing period will fly under flags of convenience, and that they argue that voters should believe in polemics instead of politics. When the government was presented last Friday, the Prime Minister had removed several of the government posts that appeared to us in Stortinget as easily confusing. We never fully understood the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Social Security and Security. Every question hour here in the Great Council became almost an evasive one, with a state council that couldn't answer important emergency questions because she didn't have responsibility for them. In the new government, however, a new State Council post has emerged – a district and digitisation minister. There is a danger that this post may become as confusing as the Minister of Social Security and Emergency Response was. What does this Council of State really have constitutional responsibility for? It is almost easier to say what she is not responsible for than what she is responsible for. She is not responsible for the countless structural reforms of this government, she has no responsibility for industrial policy in the districts, she has no responsibility for transport, she has no responsibility for municipal reform, and she has no responsibility for municipal economics. In other words, she has no constitutional responsibility for everything that matters to Norwegian districts. Once again, the government seems to believe that the voters can be led to believe that a ministerial post with an auspicious name will change the perception of the government's profile. But again, I would say, it's about politics. If centralisation policy continues with unreserved force, it will not help if it is marketed by a district minister. I must also comment on the charging policy. From 2013 onwards, the strategy of the Right Party and the Advance Party has been to provide substantial tax relief to those who have the most already, while increasing charges for people the most. Some tax increases have greatly affected business and transport in the districts. Before the government became a majority government in Granavolden, we experienced several years when unpredictable things happened in the tax arrangement in the budget negotiations in Stortinget. Now we're back in the same situation, and I'm afraid of what a budgetary settlement between the government and the Progress Party for the autumn might be about. Experience has shown that when budgetary negotiations take place in the back room between the four parties, most of them are in play, and the solutions can sometimes be disastrously poor. I understand that the Progress Party will not be involved in a major report on charging policy. They have increased the fees by 6.3 billion. kr during the period in which they have been sitting, and they will always try to make an inconspicuous argument in which they do not separate tax policy, but are sipping tax policy together with tax policy. There is no difference in the fact that those with the most have been taxed, while most people have received tax increases. I will end by going back to what should be the starting point for us in this Chamber: it is the policy that counts – it is the decisions on how the country is governed, which are the core issue itself. Many try to divert attention from policy — in the case of spins, by diversions, in the case of changes in the population gallery. However, the combination of a weakened government and a free-flowing progress party in the Storting may prove to be a dangerous political cocktail for all those who are concerned with equalising differences, both socially and geographically. The central party will do its part to clarify political responsibilities — and continue to work as the most obvious opposition party in the Stortinget. Both the government and the Progress Party can be absolutely sure that we are going to be predictable, sail if they can't promise the same thing. With that, I'd like to raise the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e611	The representative Marit Arnstad then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e618	The centre party is often occupied by the ownership of natural resources. In the last few days, we have seen that the government is adding up to a large-scale sale of State Forest areas – not to additional areas for local forest owners in the districts, as the Stoltenberg government has provided, but now much indicates that we are getting a sale of forest properties to large investors that are likely to ensure themselves, among other things. game-terrestrials. Who these people are, we know nothing about. Does the Center Party agree that we should stop the sale of these forest properties, and that we should know who the buyers of what has already been sold are?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e623	The starting point for the sale that Stadskog is now making was that Statskog was given the opportunity by the red-green government to buy Borregaard's forest, so that it did not end up on foreign hands. It was very good – it was very important. In connection with that purchase, a rule was also introduced that State Forest should be able to sell a part of its properties, a small part, to private forest owners. It was the Workers' Party on in the red-green government. Very much of that sale has been very good. It has been sold to municipalities and to smaller forest owners, so the centre party is behind the change that we were part of in the red-green government, and that we got then. Obviously, if you now go beyond the limits of it, and you see that you start selling to big owners individually and don't get any publicity about it, we're willing to join in and look at it, but we believe that the starting point for what the red-green government did when it comes to Statskog's arrondering sale was a reasonable starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e628	Thanks for the answer. I agree that it was reasonable to make a roundabout sale, and that there were many local forest owners out in the districts who then got the necessary additional area. But I want to drill a little bit more in it, because I think the representative Arnstad is a little unclear. Is it true that the Senterpartiet thinks it's okay that so large forest estates are sold to people who don't belong in the districts, who haven't been in the forest before? Is that okay? Does the Center Party think it's okay to make a new forest plot when such large properties are sold? And what does the Center Party think about it not being public about who are buyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e633	The centre party is engaged in good local and national ownership. We are concerned with good, private forest owners, and most forest owners in Norway are common, small forest owners who often have forests linked to their own farm property. They are we very concerned about ensuring the terms and conditions, and a good part of the sale from Statskog has secured them good terms and conditions. Then it was probably only yesterday that the Workers' Party presented this proposal. We are going to study the proposal carefully, see if there are any aspects of the proposal that are relevant for us to be on, that are then about the big forest owners, or about the publicity about sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e638	Although you might not believe it when you listen to the Center Party, the Right in Government has steered Norway safely for six and a half years. Together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have found solutions that have made Norway a better place to live. There is growth in urban and rural areas, unemployment is low, the local economy is good, more jobs are created, and emissions are falling. When I hear the representative Arnstad, it is tempting to remember that the Central Party cannot control a vacuum independently of other parties either. They will be totally dependent on the Swedish Environment Party, the Greens and Reds. In many cases, the Central Party must seek support from parties that will make the worst of themselves. There is also something you might call a dangerous cocktail – to use the representative Arnstad's own words. My question to the representative Arnstad is: What policy does the Central Party find it most difficult to accept – is it the anti-industrial environmental policy of the SV, is it the Environment Party of the Greens' District-enemyedial transport policy, or is it Red and the Workers' Party's anti-industry tax policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e647	The representative Holm Lønseth and I come from a region where one has noticed quite clearly the centralization that this government has carried on over six years. In Trondelag as a region, we almost don't see police out in the mountain region and in Namdalen anymore. Ambulance stations are being built across the whole area north of the North Trøndelag. The racetrack, which could have been an important collective year in our region, was scrambled by this government. In Robbery policy, the Right in Trøndelag has made a fall for the Left. This means that the grazing industry in Trøndelag suffers every day from an out-of-control predatory policy. So there's a lot of people who know the consequences in our region. In the case of minority government and government, the prime minister's first statement after the government changes was that now minority government is good. The centre party has said that the most natural thing for us is to go to the elections for a cooperation between the Center Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e654	I can almost not believe that someone from the same region as me is standing here telling me that there is so much going on in Trøndelag, a region that has not had lower unemployment in more than ten years, where new jobs are created, where it is also not right that the electrification of the Trondederbahn is shrunk, and where we hear Trondelag police districts tell how incredibly important the police reform has been to meet a completely new crime scene, and that there are completely new opportunities to detect abuse of children online, for example. I guess it wasn't really any of what I was asking for, that the representative Arnstad answered. The point is that the Central Party is dependent on parties far to the left of themselves, and then I can repeat the question that I came up with: what is it the Center Party believes will be most difficult to accept with its cooperation parties' policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e661	If the representative Holm Lønseth has not received the changes we have had in Trøndelag around the robberies, police centering, municipal merger, ambulances that are being closed, the North University, which is risking the closure of the study places and the Trønderbahn, where it is not lifted a finger of six years, I think the representative Holm Lønseth must listen a little better to those who live in her own region. In terms of government formations, it is reassuring that after several years of talking nice about majority government, the Prime Minister now says that minority governments are good. That's right. Norway has had stable governance with both majority and minority governments. The center part doesn't know what's most relevant after the big shot in 2021. We hope that there will be a change of government, and we believe that there are good opportunities for that. The Central Party option is then a government based on the Center Party and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e668	This is almost like seven to eight years ago, when Arnstad was Minister of Transport, but now it is 80 pst. more for transportation. So it's to grunt at the time Arstad was Minister of Transport! The centre party is very concerned about reducing taxes and car charges, and that is good, but it is therefore the way they want to cooperate with them, wanting to increase fuel taxes, they want to charge more taxes, and it is going to be more on consumption – the centre party was even in 2016 on a proposal to make it even more expensive to drive a car. Does the Centre Party think that they should be able to reduce the fees at all? And can they guarantee that the car charges will not go up if the Senterpartiet joins the government with SV and the Arbeiderpartiet, which likes to increase the fees? So with this government, where the Progress Party has been in the driver's seat and occupied by the drivers, the drivers have got 20 billion. NOK less they have to pay in car-related charges, because we have done something about the charging system on the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e677	If the representative Hoksrud and the Progress Party are so concerned about the charging policy, I think they should be present today and ask for a big message about the charging policy, so that we can go into what kind of outcome the charging policy provides for the most people, and what kind of outcome it gives both socially and geographically. It would have been a reasonable solution. Instead, the Progress Party only chooses to lie behind the Right and the Government and say that they should not be on that kind of proposal. That's too bad. As for the costs for the drivers, there are a lot of things you can be concerned about there, and the first thing I want to challenge the Progress Party is to scrape the E18 westward from Oslo, so the drivers save 17 billion. in tolls. It would have been a good suggestion, which I think the Progress Party should carefully consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e685	The left-hand side is that larger states and larger municipalities are not a target in themselves. The left is also said that we have to do what we can to curb centralization and ensure that District Norway is attractive to people looking for housing, work and the good life. Larger municipalities and counties make it much easier to strengthen municipalities, strengthen District Norway at the expense of the state, give them new tasks, more resources, more jobs. Instead of applauding the fact that the basis is thus better than ever, and helping to fill the reforms with content and strengthen the districts, choose the Centre again to criticise and – apologies – almost hare down on the reforms. So my question is, what is the Central Party's alternative with the same potential to stand up to the enormous gravity effect that centralization forces have, especially in the central eastern region, as larger and stronger municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e700	The representative is probably right that we are having a hunch about the regional reform, we are doing it. We're talking about the Viken. There is not a single reasonable reason to merge the three counties, nor is there any professional basis for doing so. The truth is that it happened in a room at the back of the Storting, in a negotiation between four parties late one night. When you didn't quite realize how to put the map together in the East, you found it. That's the way it is, and that's why we're hustling about it, because it was so easy, the decision that was then made. With regard to how to manage municipalities and counties: no specific tasks have been assigned to those regions and municipalities that have merged. Nor is it the case that the municipalities that have merged have received so much better finances, even though they might have hoped for it. Many of the states that have joined have become more economical. I believe that much of the answer to the ability of municipalities and states to do good welfare tasks is resources, and it is also to recognise the job they do, whether they are large or small.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e707	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e712	It's a little unclear what the basis for this debate, because what we got on Tuesday, must be the shortest account of Norway's history from a prime minister. Obviously, it's important not to think of anything that could provoke anyone. The collapse of civil cooperation has made Erna Solberg's government a sort of commercial ministry of chance left to manage it as an opportunistic progress party should be in the mood to contribute to the majority. That's the only way to understand the ultra short statement. What is left of the government simply has no political project for the three remaining government parties. So that's what's left of the big bourgeois project. Now it's just about surviving, not getting something done. The party of progress has described the government they themselves have been part of, in a colorful way, really, after they got out. A description that has passed away are different variants of unpopular, e.g. ‘clean unpopular’. That's striking, I'd say. Then it remains to be seen whether the Progress Party understands why the government they've been in for six and a half years is, or had become, 'dirty unpopular'. I can try some explanations. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, The first is the unsocial cuts that have hit so many people in Norway, as many of those who have the least, those with the worst advice, for example. unemployed, single parents, chroniclers, people on redundancy pay and older people on low pensions. They've seen that they've been reduced and cut, while billionaires have received more. The party of progress in government did not appear to be a party for the people most, but as a party for the economic elite, which prioritised billions of dollars to the richest people in Norway. Another reason for unopularity may be the privatisation policy of welfare benefits, where people see that tax money goes to tax havens and enters the national accounts rather than to child protection, kindergartens or care for the elderly. Another reason could be the deregulation of working life, where the Progress Party in government has systematically contributed to shifting power from the labour force to the bosses and owners. Another reason could be coercion against people in Finnmark and people in the Viking Gulf – and centralisation policy, which has hit people in the districts. So it is absolutely right that we have thought – and are doing well – to fill the committees with rematches, because we want to take the Progress Party on the floor. Do they regret any of the things that have made the government they were part of, unpopular? Are they willing to turn around in some cases? Or are they just a supporting party for the Right? We can at least note something, since Siv Jensen has said that they will vote against all the proposals that are being put forward today – and some of those proposals are demonstrably proposals that the Progress Party has for a long time gone around and said they are in favour – that in today's day one, test one, it is obvious that the Progress Party is still just a support party for the Right. We live in a time that, globally, more and more, bears the mark of being billionaires' age. Hugely with money and power gathered on fewer hands than before. Also in Norway, the inequality in power and wealth is far too great. The social glue in our society is in danger. That's why it's absolutely vital to get the inequality down and trust up in our society that those who have the most contribute more. Therefore, one of SV’s proposals today is that work should be started on introducing a tax on the wealthiest’s sky-high heritage. SV is going to be a tough opposition in the distribution policy, also to the new variant of government. We believe in a Norway that is for the many, not for the few, and in a welfare policy that bets on people, not markets. In those areas, my expectations to the government are limited, of course. It's, and it's also going to be in the new variant, a right-hand rule. But in the second main area of SV, climate and environmental policy, it is now exciting to see how the government will act, when it is riddled of the Progress Party that clung to the foothold of climate policy. Now the excuse for paralysis is gone. Australia burns, the deforestation of the Amazon shoots speed. There are many dramatic things happening around us, but at the same time we also see great opportunities, a tearing development of technology and renewable energy. The climate crisis will be the major issue in the 2020s and will affect all other policies in the coming years. In meeting it, Norway needs a social plan, a green new deal – to cut emissions, build the country and share benefits and burdens, to achieve climate goals, maintain and develop industry and jobs and reduce inequality – a fair green transition. The state must be the engine for a new phase in the Norwegian economy in the same way as when we expanded the oil business. Then it is critical that at the beginning of this crucial decade we have a government that does not have such a plan. We have a government that has already, over the years it has run, in its various variants, proved that it is unable to achieve the climate goals, a government that had good time to achieve the 2020 targets, but that failed. This spring comes a new, big environmental battle, and that's the battle on the ice. It is about nature and about vulnerable areas, it is about whether we take environmental professional advice seriously. It could seem from one of the line changes earlier today that there has not been clear environmental advice, but it has. We cannot use climate change and the fact that the ice is retreating due to global warming, as a reason to launch an oil race northwards in the Arctic. The environmental advice that has been received also clearly shows that it is wrong, because the variations are so large that even in periods the ice goes much further south than what is assumed by today's ice edge limit, not to mention if it is drawn northwards. In addition, this is a test of whether, as a country, we realize the realities, that the world is going to have to make a rapid transition away from fossil energy. And more fossil energy has already been found in the world than what can be burned, if we are to avoid catastrophic global warming. Then it's simply that opening up oil drilling in the most vulnerable areas is to bet on climate goals, it's to be very clear that they're not going to be achieved. Therefore, the battle for ice is not just a struggle for vulnerable nature and for the eternal resources and ecosystems of the sea, but it is a struggle for whether Norway should have climate change or not. I hope the Labour Party will know its visit time with the invitations that have come from at least two of the government parties, and that the Advance Party will be parked on the sideline of that case. We also need to test whether the government is willing to turn in its new edition on important climate issues. That is why this week we have been promoting a wide range of proposals for emission reductions that SV and the Workers' Party have put together in the Stortinget, and for which the government parties can therefore form a majority if they want to. And then we'll see if they want to. Today, we are proposing that the Storting should declare the climate crisis a national emergency, as a number of other parliaments have done. It is time for the Storting to do as well, to show that Norway is aware of the seriousness of the situation. SV is going to be a tough opposition party to this government, but we're also ready to form a majority with anyone if it means getting a majority in favour of action against the climate crisis or for a policy that will serve those who have been hard tested after over six years of bourgeois rule: those who work in parts of the working life with stagnant wages or social dumping, the elderly with low pensions or who see that they have to tighten the life-belt, while billionaires are getting more and more. But a real change of course for the country we know that we only get a new majority in Norwegian policy – a red-green majority in Norwegian policy – after the elections next year. People know where they have us. SV is a red-green people's party that always fights for environment and justice, and for a Norway for the many, not for the few on top. I finally brought up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e750	The representative, Audun Lysbakken, then raised the SV's proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e757	It was not many minutes before the Progress Party announced a series of rematches after they left the government, even though they are today going to vote against a number of things they are in favour of. But both the Labour Party and SV are equality parties, and we are parties that have fought for a long time for involuntary childless people. One of the things the Progress Party launched after they left the government was that they wanted to rematch the biotechnology laws and allow egg donation. We're very happy that they said, and then it says to see if they're going to do it. After all, the Prime Minister has wanted more kids in this country, and this is a good opportunity. My question to SV is very simple, if they want to participate in the Workers' Party's proposal that gives involuntary childless persons in Norway the right to egg donation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e764	We will take advantage of the opportunity to make changes to the Biotechnology Act if that is now possible, and in many of those proposals SV and the Workers' Party will be united. Then we'll see what things actually come into play, and treat them in our group, but we're willing to join the majority to make good changes for people in those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e769	I thank you for your answer. Equality between men and women is a matter of struggle both for the Labour Party and for the Swedish Labour Party, and we also believe it is important to equalise infertile women and infertile men. My last question is whether SV will be with the Workers' Party on a bill that allows women to donate unfertilised eggs, in line with sperm donation, as well as redundant fertilisation of eggs after sample tube fertilisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e774	The Labour Party is very welcome – if they want to promote a bill with us – to send them over, and then we'll take a close look at them. We're going to treat them, and then we're going to be very happy to get back to it. I think that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e779	I want to congratulate the Socialist Left Party. We now have a world situation that is starting to look more and more like the SV has been fighting for years. We see a more intrusive United States that's pulling more and more out of the Middle East. The EU will immediately lose a Member State, which will have consequences for Europe. Questions are asked at the WTO, higher customs walls and smaller trade and cooperation between countries, and NATO cooperation is being tested – from the outside. The question is: how does the representative Lyssbakken think things are going internationally, now that he really is starting to get through to his foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e787	The representative Heggelund is good at polemics, but if you look at what today's chaotic world situation is all about, it's just that a long time has led a policy that has been exactly what the Right has wanted, and that has released the market forces. One has been given the age of greed where heavy sums of money and a lot of power are collected on ever fewer hands, where one has unleashed a free trade policy that has ruined the life base of too many people, where the violent increase in inequality has weakened the social glue in society after society and opened up to polarization, where the lack of action against the climate crisis – as we have talked about for over 30 years – is in the process of creating a global crisis, and where the acceptance of American alone has undermined international law and international cooperation. SV has been right, and the right has been wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e794	It's almost not to think that I'm being accused of just being good at polemics, and then this is the answer I get to the question -- a purely polemic analysis that belongs to a Socialist Left Party of the 1970s, but obviously also today. So cooperation between countries has helped to reduce world poverty, not vice versa, as Audun Lysbakken claims. But had it been possible to get an answer to the question: Give the current world situation, what does the Left Party think about the future of the EU? What does the Left Party think about the future of the WTO? What does the Left Party think about the future of NATO? Is it possible to get an answer to these questions? The fact is that we now have a foreign situation that is very similar to the Socialist Left Party has always wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e801	The representative invited a discussion about the world's state, and then I think it's absolutely relevant to discuss what created that state. I believe the right side must go in itself, because irresponsible market liberalism, which has been unleashed over the last decades, has had disastrous consequences. This is also why strong forces, more and more economists, are now calling for a completely different economic policy. In this new international situation, it is incredibly important that we do not engage in foreign policy watering. What I experience in the discussions about e.g. security policy is not the recognition that the representative Heggelund now agrees that the world is changing strongly, but on the contrary, ritual repetitions of the fact that everything is the same. There is no real debate about what it means that the United States is turning away from Europe, no real debate about how to become less dependent on the United States. Right-people most people talk like they've always done, and it's not fooled when the world's changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e808	It's interesting to hear the Lightbaking talk about unsocial cuts. After SV had been in government for eight years, there were 15,000 more children who were poor. In 2011, SV voted for both the curtailment and underregulation of pensions, which they now believe is a different matter. But the representative Lightbakken is very clear on what he thinks about the climate and that one should take action there, and SV wants to increase the fuel charges on both petrol and diesel, while the Senterparte, with whom SV is to cooperate, wants it to be the exact opposite. Then the question is, and I record that the Senterpartiet could not answer it: Can the Lightbaken guarantee, from his point of view, that the fuel charges will be increased in any new red-green government? I hope that won't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e815	I think the facts are better. If you look at what the two governments in which the Progress Party and SV have been sitting have done, then the tax system became more redistributive among us, and it became more unfair with the Progress Party because the Advance Party is so happy in billionaires. You should add 'for billionaires most' the next time the Progress Party is going to make slogans. It is true that SV suggests that some environmental taxes should be levied. But the Progress Party must stop saying – because it is unfair to have political debate on wrong premises – that SV proposes that the level of taxes and charges should be raised for ordinary people. For each year in this and the previous period, SV has proposed a overall lower level of taxation for people with normal and low incomes than the Progress Party has done. So people with income below – let's say – $600,000 will go in plus and so get out better with SV's setup than with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e822	In the Christian People's Party, we saw the children in the center of politics. We have a family policy that first sees the children. This means that families have the ability to organize their own lives as they may. When you want all day school for your children and six-hour days for your adults, you can easily get the impression that a set of needs for your adults first. As a result, there will be less time for the family and for the children. SV will remove the cash support and make it even harder for the children, especially the smallest children. The Christian People's Party wants families to decide for themselves, for the best of their children. Where the Christian People's Party wants freedom of choice and children's perspective, the solution to the Swedish family policy is more government governance, less freedom of choice and a policy with a large growth perspective. Does SV mean that children should be subordinate to the needs of adults in family policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e829	SV believes that the school day needs to be changed for the sake of the children, because what we see today is that too many children do not thrive in Norwegian school. There's a lot of people, maybe most of the guys, who need to move more. It applies to all those who learn best by doing things, rather than just the classic literal, theoretical way of learning. Our new school day is about restoring respect for practical learning in Norwegian school. It's about getting more movement, more play, more creativity into school day – a school day where more kids can learn, master and thrive. That's what this is about. And to do that, we need to take some time from what is today an SFO offer, which is of very varying quality around the country, and get a little more practical hours into school day. At the same time, we're going to cut homework, so that the kids actually get more free time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e834	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e839	The composition of the government has changed, and it will, of course, also become the policy to a certain extent. For the Left, the most important thing is to increase the freedom of each citizen and give all the same possibilities. Should freedom be real, one must also be free from poverty, nudgeness and inequality and have the same opportunities in the future to enjoy and exploit nature, as we have enjoyed today. And even though the power ratio between the parties is the same here in the house, and the government platform we signed on to the Granavolden is firm, it will undoubtedly be noticeable that we have a new government in the country, a centre-right government, with new giving and new energy, especially in the most important issues for the Left: climate and environment, knowledge, nutrition and social responsibility. One already heavy investment in education and knowledge will be further enhanced: equal opportunities for all and social smoothing. The same applies to the fight against child poverty: freedom for all. We need to increase ambitions in the environment and climate. We need to make a great effort to secure and create jobs across the country, not least to strengthen all the exciting things that happen under the umbrella of green growth. For the sake of our children, coming generations, the world must be shut down by reducing greenhouse gas emissions sufficiently quickly and quickly. As one of the richest countries in the world, which takes a large part of our revenues from large-scale greenhouse gas industry, we thus have a great responsibility that drives and role models internationally. Already in the next week, the professional basis for a new climate plan is to be the starting point for the government party and government to chisel out a concrete plan to meet Norway's commitments: 45 pst. domestic reduction in the non-quota sector by 2030. That's what we do. by making it more profitable for business to reduce own emissions, through the active use of green tax shifts. The benefits of zero-emission vehicles will be passed on and the whole country will have access to fast and efficient charging infrastructure. 20–25 years since the Left started to promote the use of electric cars in Oslo, Norway is now on the threshold of a formidable success, with good prospects for achieving the goal of zero-emission cars for all new cars in 2025. Norway is the driver of technology development the rest of the world and the climate can benefit from it. A new national transport plan shall be drawn up, with a good balance between road and rail. The strong commitment to collective development must continue, not least: also with an arrangement of the Nord-Norway. Both in the previous and in the inward bulk, the Left, through the cooperation agreements and the government declarations, has been part of securing multiple numbers to protect the Lofoten, the West and Senja against oil expansion. And as long as the Left sits in a power position, the timeless, eternal value of Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja – both in a classical nature value perspective and in food and value creation – is the peace of oil activity. The next major issue of oil extraction in the north is coming to Stortinget: the management plan for the North Barents Sea, the question of the ice edge. Peaceing the Barents Sea north of oil activity and moving the ice edge further south is a crucial issue for the Left, from three perspectives: the existence of an invaluable nature, fish and animal life, plankton and algae; the outlook for the climate; the importance of the financial risk we take when the Community advances large management costs without any guarantee that the world cannot or will not consume the oil and gas at a time when fossil consumption is necessarily heavily reduced; Some of the most heartbreaking in the Norwegian welfare community in 2020 are certain that tens of thousands of children are growing into poverty. Therefore, it is unlikely that it is good to be able to establish that the targeted Left and Government Party, together with the Progress Party, has to fight against child poverty, among others. by introducing free core time into kindergartens for children from low-income families, now extended also to the school-free time arrangements for all to have equal opportunities to participate in school-related activities, regardless of the financial situation of parents. For a social liberal and a world citizen, it is also good to be able to emphasise that Norway should take an even greater responsibility for people in other countries who are in need and need help, both through aid policy and refugee policy. Among other things, the number of quota refugees received, at 3,000 a year, is three times higher than when we came to power in 2013 and the red-green had multiples and controlled this area. As the parliamentary leader of the Business and Founding Party Left, I see the government platform as a particularly good starting point for the new Minister of Enterprise from the Left. With an overemphasis that what is good for the small enterprises is also good for the large ones – not necessarily the opposite – the platform contains a wide, varied list of measures to ensure and facilitate more workplaces. The availability of risk capital and so-called “competent capital” – investors who also have knowledge of business activity – is even easier. Tax incentives and option taxation shall include, for example: additional improvements and reinforcements. It should be easier to use public funding, easier for small and new start-ups to compete for public supply, and the conditions for self-employed people are monthly strengthened. For established industry investing in budding and markets where green values are the drivers, we are now fully in the harbour with a very targeted, heavy tool: the climate investment fund Nysnø AS, an institution that has enough and long-term enough capital to be a co-investor in re-calculating and industrialising new green technology. And if I, as a westerner and representative of the vibrant district of Norway, complement the review of industrial policy with an agricultural policy that has turned steam problems and pessimism into new optimism and investment will, there is little doubt that the government party is leading and going to strengthen a policy that secures jobs and activity throughout the country. On behalf of the Left, I have the right to thank the Advance Party for a good, constructive cooperation as a government party. In spite of some considerable distance between the Left and the Advance Party in matters that are important to both parties, we have been able to come up with solutions that have been beneficial to society and to society’s development – as illustrated by toll cases in the fall. The solution was to reduce the load on the car list, while at the same time as public transport efforts were significantly strengthened: win-win. Unfortunately, it is not the good results and the happy selections that dominate the media image, but the internal feel and perception that the cooperation in the rule has been laborious and difficult. On the basis of that, we understand and respect that the Progress Party chose to leave the government, and we want to welcome them as a constructive opposition party. The left should do its own to have a good dialogue and a good cooperation. A blue-green minority government listen willingly to reorient itself and cultivate good cooperation relations with all parties. So until those parts that have not yet tried it, I can therefore state that the doors of our offices are reasonably simple to open. If they invite them to a cup of coffee, they are also reasonably well developed for consumption, and if they prefer a chat and discussion at the same time as they jog or ski, they may increase the chances of a parliamentary leader turning to the invitation. Finally, I also need to express great joy at the fact that the Left has now strengthened the construction by bringing my good colleague Ola Elvestuen back to the power's stronghold, Stortinget. The capacity and competence it represents, not least as one of the most important policy makers in the global environment and climate area, ensure that the Left takes an even clearer role in accelerating the most necessary green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e885	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e890	Thanks for the coffee invitation, which maybe was for all of us – it's a lot to talk about. What I especially want to talk to the Left about today is that we've agreed on one thing in terms of helicopter capacity in the north. In any case, a newly elected member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence said this a few years ago: ‘It is clear that a modern army must also have helicopter capacity, and we therefore believe that the Bell helicopters must stay in Bardufoss.’ It is important for the defense that they have helicopters, but it is also important for the overall preparedness, and we have seen that. Now there's a helicopter stationed in the Kirkenes, it's very important for preparedness across the country. My question is: does the parliamentary leader of the Left agree with the representative of Elvesuen for some years ago that the Army needs helicopters? Can we agree on that on the Storting and scrape away the decisions that the Left has made earlier that the Army should not have helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e900	Of course, the leader of Parliament is in agreement with the representative of Elvesuen. As the representative Huitfeldt is well aware – when one is part of a government, not a bit is part of a government. We are also forced to take those debates internally in the government and stand for what we can achieve as a government party with the other parties. But this is also one of the questions that will obviously be debated when we roll the long-term defence plan. The working party was part of the conciliation of the late government party entered into the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e905	When the Left supported the Solberg government in 2013, there was a very clear ambition that the Storting should have greater power. When it comes to the question of helicopters for the Army, almost all the parties here in the hall mean it, except the Right. The fact that the Left is voting against these proposals through its government participation, I believe, is a major parliamentary challenge, because the entire Parliament's clear majority believe that the Army should have helicopters, that we need increased helicopter preparedness in the north. People in North Norway are very insecure in the situation because they see that there is not enough helicopter capacity available. The representative from the left invites you to coffee here, but there's a lot of excitement about this. Why can't the Left help that the majority's desire and what will respond to the concerns of very many people in Northern Norway to create a basis for decisions that the Army will have helicopters in the north is expressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e914	I have great respect and understanding that people in Northern Norway have problems understanding how to make decisions in a parliament and in government cooperation. I do not have the same understanding that such a question comes from Huitfeldt, a representative who has such a long and good experience of also sitting in mandatory government cooperation. One may say, unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how a manager manages the state finances, but also the money for the helicopter base of the Defense and the defence efforts and the different priorities are a budgetary issue for which one is required to take responsibility in a whole state budget. Then, of course, Huitfeldt's representative is cordially welcome to discuss this more with me over a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e919	Last summer, the four government parties concluded an agreement to reduce tolls. This meant an agreement that would reduce the toll load by about 18 billion. kr for the next 10 years and increased bet on public transport for 10 billion. kr. Just hours after the Progress Party had left the government, there came signals not only from the Christian People's Party, but also from the Left, that you were not so busy with tolls. Of course, this raises doubts – does the agreement apply or not? My question is: does the Toll Agreement stand with the Left Layer? Can they guarantee that there will be toll cut in the city and built, or will you reverse it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e924	It was basically a rather welcome question, because we've actually threatened the opposite, that the Progress Party had signalled to deviate from the toll agreement. It just shows you how important it is to talk. The toll settlement is part of the 2020 budget, so of course we are at the budget we adopted just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e929	It was good to hear that answer, but can the Progress Party be reassured that it will also apply in the years ahead, as the agreement provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e934	I can't shift what the government comes up with from proposals in the state budget for 2021, because that's what this is about, but I'm going to believe that these are of the things that are being put heavily on, given the history and totality of such an agreement. I have a lot of experience in negotiating the state budget from the side that the representative, Mr Stordalen, is now going to do, and I know that this kind of thing is also the subject of annual budgetary discussions and budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e941	The police high school published a larger book mentioning police reforms, and one of the main conclusions there was that the so-called near-police reform was the centralisation of the Norwegian police. Now the Progress Party has resigned from the government, they no longer have the Minister of Justice. They launched a new, big, centralization operation where they were to go through all the country's district courts. On the basis of the mandate and the leadership they had received, it concluded that two thirds of the country's District Courts were to be closed. Now that the Progress Party is out of government, will the Left then want that process to be stopped, or will it continue to be a process in which the conclusion is that a certain number of things must be set aside – there will probably not be two thirds; there will certainly be some sort of intermediate solution – so that the government can boast of it? Or does the Left believe that today's structure should be maintained and the rights of things strengthened throughout Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e948	First of all, to the near-police reform: the near-police reform is, in fact, a solid success, but I fully agree with the representative, Mr Vedum, that the number of police posts on individual district policies is too low. So I'm going to do something about that. The background for the near-police reform was, of course, just doing it so that a police officer is able to deal with the new crime, for example. in order for the person selected in Ulvik to have the same adequate follow-up as that selected in central strokes in Oslo. So that kind of thing is far better for the police today. The same is true of digital crime. When it comes to the report from the court committee, I can assure the representative Battle Force Vedum that it is one of the things that we obviously address heavily in the chamber, considering what the government might be going to the Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e955	In addition to being Vice President of the Left, Terje Breivik is the former world champion for 10 km skiing in the VM. Then I couldn't let the occasion leave me. The International Ski Association, FIS, recently made a very happy decision by prohibiting the use of fluorine in ski touring. In the Committee on Energy and the Environment there is now a proposal from, among others: I, the undersigned, ask the Government to introduce a ban on the use of fluorinated touring at all ski events in Norway. And since I'm now on my way home to the high north, where we've finally got snow and I'm going on a butter-free ski, I wonder if the representative agrees with me that fluorine belongs in the teeth, not in nature. Will the Left support our proposals in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e962	I'm told that I don't have a lot of time to test the fluorine content in my blood. There's a lot of seriousness behind this, but I'm probably one of those who's been standing in a lot of sandwiches over the years and lubricating with the fluorine product. I agree with the representative that this is a problem we need to take seriously – and I do – and not least we need to find alternatives. Unfortunately, we know that the Olympic ideals, faster, higher, stronger, etc., make it possible to find alternatives and test methods that allow a ban to be practised, so that one does not hurt worse. But I totally agree with the intention behind: One cannot have a product under the ski that is dangerous for those who are standing and buttering, and who are willing to have a great impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e968	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e973	Our Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition have given us values such as human dignity, closeness of mind and trustworthiness. The basis for policy is the view of the individual's unique value, despite different starting points, assumptions and characteristics. Man has an inherent and inviolable self-value, and all humans have the same human dignity. This is the core of the Christian People's Party's policy. We have a new parliamentary situation, but the principles are firm. We have gone from majority government to minority government, but the starting point of politics is the same: the human dignity of the Christian cultural heritage, the responsibility of the administration and the love of the next. This is also the basis for the government's work. This is also our starting point. If it doesn't mean that it has become heaven on earth, I still don't recognize myself in Gahr Støre's description that the Christian People's Party chose the loss when we chose to go into government. Over more than six years of cooperation, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have found good solutions that mean something to people in everyday life, whether it is doubling cash support, teaching standards, the place of Christianity in school, the legal right to a nursing home, regional reform with more power closer to people, measures for growth in the districts, increased assistance or a strong commitment to culture. We can follow up further with child escalation plans and mental health for young people, action plan against anti-semitism and action against child poverty. The list could have been much longer. The KrF stamp is clear. We're proud of what we've been through. At the same time, all four parties have achieved good results together. Of course, I have respect for the fact that the Progress Party believed that the distance to the Right, Left and Christian People's Party was too great. It is the choice of the Progress Party. In the Christian People's Party we will continue to work for our political affairs in government, and we will apply for this in the Stortinget. So it would be natural for this government to seek first cooperation with the Progress Party in the individual cases. If we don't succeed in that, then of course it's natural that we want to seek support from the other opposition parties. But we have some very central common values on the non-socialist side that we also agree on. Because the state alone is not building a society. It is not the government alone that maintains a community. It is individuals, families, communities, organisations, religious communities and businesses that create Norway. It's good, it's voluntary, willing to take action, it's work – everything we create together, from the founder to the conductor. It is man's abilities and efforts that are Norway's future. It's our history, our traditions and our Christian heritage. Yes, we believe in a welfare society, not just a welfare state. Therefore, humans are always more important than the systems. The most crucial thing in society is not the state or politics; it is the community that is maintained by families, religious communities, volunteering and institutions. Values such as honesty and personal responsibility are precisely contributing to the creation of a good society for all, where the small communities are at the centre. Security for the generations that come after us is about good framework conditions for industrial development, for agriculture, for fisheries. It is about access to new jobs, both public and private. It is about the development of new technologies, about broadband, about roads and about public transport. It is about good community economy, security of good health services and schools where people live, and a strong, robust and forward-looking defence that is relevant to our time. We have to take care of the values of the Norwegian welfare community. It is not least about having a welfare society that is economically sustainable over time. That is why we must also convert the Norwegian economy. We need to create sustainable growth and more jobs, and we need to build infrastructure across the country. The government will use the whole country. Good transport solutions are important to get it done. That is why I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has now taken up the Ministry of Transport. The Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Right and the Left have good traditions for finding solutions together in transport policy. We will build on the common basis that lies there, through reform and renewal of the sector, through enhanced efforts to improve road safety, lower greenhouse gas emissions and a policy that will apply to the whole country. And we're going to strengthen Barna's transport plan in connection with the rolling of the National Transport Plan. The green shift is going on, and we need to secure green growth that gives us more legs to stand on. We have a responsibility to ensure that our grandchildren and generations who come after us have at least as good opportunities as us. Norway must meet its climate obligations and take its share of the responsibility for addressing climate challenges. Our new working life must be green, smart and innovative. We're going to bet on the school because we know that a good childhood lasts for life. Safe parenting is one of the best things we can do for our children. The school shall provide knowledge and essential equipment for a professional life, but the school is also concerned with providing students with a safe and secure framework for development. That's why I'm proud of the history of the Christian People's Party – because we're in a proud tradition. There is a line in the Christian People's Party's school policy from former Minister of Church, Education and Research Jon Lilletun's commitment to 'creating people of benefit' and to the school policy that this government is pursuing today. We want every student to be seen. We want the teachers to have time for the students. We will take care of the legacy of Jon Lilletun: the school will create beneficial people. It's about building, not just education. Therefore, it is not by chance that this government introduces a teaching norm. It's not random that we're fighting this out. For us, it's a value question. It's a job we do for future generations, for our children and our grandchildren. The teacher's norm continues, and there will be more teachers. It is not the case that the teacher’s norm has increased the proportion of unqualified people, many of whom have tried to give the impression. The norm works – it works, and it's funded. We'll make sure it comes with money. There are several teachers without any other offer in the municipality, because the state is making money. This is a historic victory for Norwegian school. Teachers, parents and students have for a long time seen the alarming need for more teachers in school. The Christian People's Party has listened to their experiences, and the government has taken hold. I look forward to a lot of good political work in the future, to the best for countries and people. There are troubled times in the world around us. Safe control in turbulent times is necessary. We shall contribute to that. At the same time, we shall renew the good and take care of the values we set high: the human dignity, the Christian cultural heritage, the responsibility of the administrator and the love of the next. This is the starting point of the Christian People's Party and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1018	I'm excited if new government now means a new look at ongoing issues. Before Christmas it became known that the Christian People's Party had lost when the bill on character-based recording was presented. The proposal has encountered massive resistance in all states, among professionals, teachers and students, who will not force the whole country on a model that we know has not worked in Oslo. Finally, Ropstad was a senior in the VG and warned both his son and his party against participating in the government's proposal. The legislative proposal is now being consulted. I understand from what the representative of Gruvan has said in the media, that the matter is not settled in government, but can the Christian People's Party here and now determine whether it is the Progress Party, which has gone out of government, which will get through this matter, or the Christian People's Party, which is still in government, which will get through?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1025	In the Granavolden platform, we have a formulation that we're going to try to find a model that can take into account that the majority of potential students can be satisfied in the selection of high school, while taking into account a decentralised school structure. This is a starting point for the consultation that was launched in the autumn and to which the representative Tvedt Solberg refers, we have received results from that hearing just now. They now need to be reviewed so that we can find a solution that takes into account, as much as possible, the wording of the Granavolden platform and listens to the opinions of the hearing. Then there is also a regional reform that takes place from 1 January, where one transfers more responsibility for competence from state to state. It must also be a perspective when we are now going to find a final solution to how we organize admission to high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1032	I am glad that the Christian People's Party confirms that someone will listen to that hearing. It has been very unambiguous against those proposals. If I have understood correctly the primary position of the Christian People's Party, a greater one wants the states to be able to decide for themselves. At least that's what's been the clear message from Agder, home-grown to the representative Gruvan. But looking at one of the two models that are out at the hearing, none of the two models proposed by the government will take care of the Christian People's Party's wish that the states should decide for themselves to a greater extent. Both models included in the bill will impose one model for the whole country. If the Christian People's Party is serious, then one must understand that the government is now working on a third model, which will more closely observe the self-determination of the states in this. So my question is: Does the Christian People's Party now work with a third model that also ensures that the states will choose for themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1041	Christian People's Party does not work on its own model. We're part of a government, so we have to find a solution that can unite the three government parties in how to finally launch this. We are now busy listening to the hearing. We have a formulation in the platform that we also have to base. As I said, we also have a regional reform that shifts power from central to central government – from state to state. It is important that we also have a policy that allows us to use the schools and the physical infrastructure we have, so that one does not add up to a model that makes investments now feel like waste. Then we have to try to see what is the point that gives the right balance here. As I said, it's not concluded, and we're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1050	Right at this moment, the party's big crowd has a visit from someone named Itamar Marcus. He's head of Palestinian Media Watch. He documents and reveals how the money is, among other things, Norway gives to the Palestinian self-government authorities, is abused — how terrorists are hailed, sports events are named after terrorists, school books show buses blown up in the air as an Israeli or Jewish barbecue party. This is the government we left, fortunately, but it is the government that the Christian People's Party and the Count is talking about. Nest love, or perhaps an application to sit in the UN Security Council – what do I know? Then it's nice that both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister sit here. Will the Christian People's Party join the Advance Party and stop the Norwegian support to the Palestinian self-government authorities, who abuse every penny they get from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1055	The government of which the Christian People's Party is part is concerned that we should spend money building civil society in Palestinian territory. It's part of the investment that allows us to get a more stable Middle East. There are important functions that are currently missing. We need to contribute to it, along with the rest of the international community. But when that's said, we're obviously concerned that this money is going to be spent on the right things. We want to expose and detect abuse and to put its effects and consequences in relation to it. It has also been done on several occasions by the government to which both the representative Tybring-Gjedde and I have been associated. Making sure that the money is spent properly is important, because this is about building a civil society that can be involved and provide better living conditions for the Palestinians in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1060	Yes, it sounds pious and nice, but that's how all the money is being misused – all the money goes to Palestinian self-government authorities. Of course, something will go to something that is legitimate, but the sponsorship of Palestinian self-government authorities goes to sporting events and cultural events in a row and array. This is something that the Christian People's Party can stop with the Advance Party, so that money is spent in a sensible way – not to maintain Palestinian self-government authorities, which yesterday actually said they didn't need any money from Donald Trump to build up their own country, as Gruvan now says they need it. They don't want any money. But they might want money from Norway. I might assume that. But let me add and ask the representative: what does the representative and the Christian People's Party think about the vision that Trump and Netanyahu presented yesterday? I see that the Christian People's Party is the only party that has not expressed its opinion on that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1065	There were several questions and claims here. When it is claimed that all the money is being misused, I am not sitting with that impression, but I am concerned that the money we spend, both here and otherwise, should be followed up, so that it reaches the purpose and we achieve the things we want. In this case, we want to build civil society, so that there are more viable conditions in these areas. With regard to the peace plan that was published in the last few days, we have to have the opportunity to study it. I haven't done that personally, and that's why I can't comment on it directly. But I think it's important that there's a plan that needs to be anchored, based on trust between the parties to negotiate, and it's despite all these two parties that have to agree on this. That's why I think it's important that we now take time to see what the plans actually contain, before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1073	We have been through the so-called near-police reform, which has become the centralisation of the Norwegian police. Last year, in 12 out of 12 police districts, the trustees expressed great concern about the situation in the police. Then Tor Mikkel Wara announced that there would be a big message about the police, with a situation description. It didn't come when he was a state councillor. So Jøran Kallmyr announced that it would be done during the spring session. It didn't happen. Then it was notified that it would come during the harvest session. That did not happen, and now we are here – in January 2020. Does Gruvan think that there should be a new big message about the police, as both Tor Mikkel Wara and Jøran Kallmyr announced, or does he not think it should come? And can the Count prepare for what is the view of the Christian People's Party? There was no new announcement from Erna Solberg yesterday, but does the Christian People's Party think there should be a new announcement about the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1080	As far as police reform is concerned, we are not in favour of it. The government has clearly expressed that. We have some clear ambitions, including: on the number of police per 1000 inhabitants. We have some ambitions to tackle some of the aspects of police investigation that need more expertise, but we're not aiming at this. Whether it becomes a message or not – I can't answer it here and now – this is a matter that we're not done with, and that requires a follow-up to carry it out into the realization that was meant, namely a safer society, that we should gain more competence to deal with the difficult issues, not least in the case of children, violence, sexual abuse, etc. That work is continued by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1085	Children in need of care and protection from child protection need every crown that has been granted child protection for a better offer. For example, there is now a campaign, an action – the Heirs campaign – in Eidsvoll’s place and calls for better staffing, so that each child is seen. Nevertheless, VG may reveal that three large companies collect millions of dollars from our well-being crowns granted for child protection out to tax havens. At the same time, the ideal actors are expelled and the individual children are put out to tender, with long, detailed descriptions sent out to several actors. Before this government got a majority a year ago, SV and the Christian People's Party formed a majority in several important issues of increasing non-profit and reducing the use of offers and profits in child protection. Will the Christian People's Party once again support such a policy, with a new parliamentary situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1090	Child protection is a high priority area for this government. We've been working on a child-restraint that can now be strengthened with more skills, more resources, that we've spent millions of years in recent years, and we'll continue to do that. Child protection consists of both public, private and non-profit actors. We have a clear ambition to increase the ideal share. That is also the government's policy. We'll work to do that. We think it is important not only to have ownership of the offers, but that each offer also needs to have the right competence in order to provide these vulnerable children with the best possible offer based on the situation they are in. Our answer is that we want to strengthen the situation of the ideal actors, but above all it is important that we build the right skills in order to provide the vulnerable children with the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1097	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1102	On Wednesday, the mayor needed eight minutes to read staff changes in the government, while Erna Solberg spent only three minutes on his political statement on the changes. It's rare it gets clearer – the changes in the government give us many new faces, but the same blue-grey policy for the rich and powerful. The government exit of the party shows that Erna Solberg was wrong. There is no basis for a majority government on the civil side, at least not most of the people. It shows the measurements, they have rarely been more clear – their policies will not have the majority in Norway. The basis for civil cooperation is definitely in one place, and it is at the elite level, among the rich and powerful who want a stable majority government in line with their interests. We see how billionaires have sponsored several of the parties at the same time because they agree on what is important for the financial elite – that taxes should be reduced and that more should be privatized. It is this consensus that is the basis when the government will continue to make budgets with the Progress Party even if they are out of government. That is also why the richest continue to sleep well at night. After six years in government, they are confident that the Advance Party is a party that is always on their side. The time in government has dismembered the party of progress as the elite party they are, no matter how much they claim to have been in prison. So maybe someone thinks that a government without the Party-faces is a government without the Party-policy. Then I would like to remind you that they will continue to make state budgets together with the Advance Party, and that the government's replacements mean little to the prospect of solving the major problems of our time. There has been no more interest in the Progress Party in reducing economic divisions, even though they are now in opposition. They're not more concerned with social dumping than they were before. They do not take in the threat from the welfare profiters to our common well-being. And not least, they have never cared that environmental policy should be fair, to work. They have complained that it does not work – at the latest yesterday – but the aim has been to ensure that smaller environmental policies are pursued, not a better environmental policy. Erna Solberg talks about the government maintaining Norway as a society with small differences. However, Norway does not have small differences. Differences have increased — and increased dramatically — in the last ten years. We see that power and wealth accumulate at the top, and the differences are greater than many think, because the richest have huge values hidden away in holding companies. Today is the so-called payday – the day of the year in which top managers have earned only one month what is a normal annual salary. So the richest are getting richer, while many common families have got less to walk with after Erna Solberg took over in 2013. That's not how Norway we want to take care of. We need to change that in order to get less difference and more justice between people here in our country. Although the right-hand side will continue to pursue the same policy, Red will take advantage of the new situation with a government that has a minority on the Storting to get an impact on important issues. An example of this is a fair housing policy. We can't have it so that nurses and others with normal jobs can't afford to buy a dwelling if they work in a big city. A fair housing policy requires alternatives to the commercial housing market. Therefore, Red has proposed the establishment of a non-commercial housing sector, where prices are kept down and sales under control. Clearly, amendments to the Kindergarten Act are needed to ensure diversity in the sector and profit-free kindergartens. It doesn't make any sense that it's allowed to earn a search warrant to run kindergartens for five-year-olds when everyone agrees that no one should take profits from school that they start one year later. We will address the fight against the government's unfair charging policy. While people with luxury cars benefit from enormous tax relief, jobs are affected by an arbitrary increase in the tax on non-alcoholic beverages. I think that Anders Lange would have turned to the grave over such a kind of charging policy, and I'm curious if Siv Jensen in opposition would agree to clean up the fees she left behind as Minister of Finance. In addition, it is high time to put a stop to the paycheck that takes place at the top of state-owned companies. Many fresh government councils may be pleased with a solid paycheck a day, but even they do not reach the highest paycheck in the state to the knees. In January alone, the President of Equinor will have served as much as a Norwegian State Council servant in a whole year. For spring, the Stortinget can tighten up the pay gap at the top when Red's proposal for tightening up comes up for treatment. In these matters, we and many more will fight to draw the policy in the right direction. There is one joy in the fact that the Progress Party went out of government – that we might now stop the construction of the power export cable NorthConnect. Norway has a lot of renewable energy, and it will also benefit the rest of the world. The question is not yes or no to export, but how to export it. Will we export electricity as an unprocessed raw material that provides few jobs and huge energy losses, such as the NorthConnect export cable, or will we export the power in terms of the world's cleanest melting shops, which provides an environmentally friendly industry with jobs, enormous value creation, technology and production? That choice should be simple for Stortinget. But we must not take the victor ahead of us in that matter. It is still uncertain how the Progress Party and the Workers' Party will actually prevent the government from giving a clear signal. The Progress Party says they are following its party programme, but the resistance to NorthConnect is clearly better than the Progress Party programme, for it states that the Progress Party will ‘stimulate increased power generation and improved conditions for exports and imports of electricity’. Where the Workers' Party will land is not easy to predict either. By law, we know that it's the government that grants concessions. The law applies even if we have a minority government, and the government has parties that are positive to NorthConnect. The working party says on its website that the most important thing is not whether the project is granted a concession, but what happens in the following section, namely whether the law stops the cable from being built. However, when Norway was left behind by the EU Energy Agency Acer, the Workers' Party, together with the government parties and the Greens' Greens' Party, was involved in postponing legislative changes after the government had completed the concession. If the concession is first granted, it will be difficult to withdraw it afterwards. So it's not crystal clear, but we can make it simple: we can put the prestige aside, get a big decision that instructs the government that NorthConnect is not being built, clear up the uncertainty and uncertainty of the road for the Norwegian industry, the trade movement and most people and get this clarification quickly. That is what Red proposes for urgent treatment in the Stortinget today. Red is going to continue to be the most obvious opponent of this government. We must ensure that the opposition, the most important part of it, is well on the left of the government and not on the right of it, and pursue a policy to reduce the differences in fiscal policy, foreign policy, fiscal policy, refugee policy, labour policy and district policy. I can promise on behalf of Red that the government will not get a simpler job than it deserves. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1130	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1137	In line with good tradition in that party, the representative Moxnes did not talk much about private business and the workplaces there. That may be understandable, because when you go into and look at the programme, it's an amazing thing – I almost have to say, rabies – attack on an important sector in Norway, namely the oil and gas sector, a sector where proud engineers, research environments and skilled workers have built up the world's best environments of competence over decades. The representative of the Moxnes Party says we should have reduced production in that sector in 2030 – down to 90 pst. – and they do so by proposing a number of measures that are individually bad. Then I wonder if he himself — with the widespread attack on tens of thousands of jobs in Norway — has come to the realization that his party trap Mimir Kristjánsson was right when he characterized this as totally unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1142	Had Dag Terje Andersen listened, he would have heard that I was talking about the industry, and that NorthConnect among others. is about ensuring that Norwegian industry will continue to be able to access cheap electricity, which is crucial to ensuring jobs around the country and to ensure that we can have aluminium and silicon production and export it rather than just sending the power out of the country, which is the Workers' Party, until now, at least, has been very much too. So there's Red on the side of the trade movement, while the Workers' Party has had some problems with the LO, to say it a little cautiously, in both the Acer and NorthConnect cases. So we know that we're going to halve our emissions by 2030, and we're going to go to zero by 2050. We know that this industry will be smaller. That's what Equinor himself says. If they get everything they point to and no changes to the framework conditions, there will be a halving of the industry by 2050. Then our job is to build new industries, new jobs, new industries. That's our answer. That's why Red proposes a new, green industrial revolution on the Stortinget before summer. That's the answer to securing new jobs, we mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1149	Green Revolution is probably fine words, but the closure of thousands of workplaces is hard facts. There are also other areas where Moxnes is being attacked in private sector jobs, partly the same jobs, but also partly the many other jobs that we are going to live on in addition to the oil and gas sectors. He does so by attacking the EEA Agreement. Moxnes was in his post on the elite and elitist, but here he belongs to the no-to-EU elite, i.e. the elite in Norway who do not want to listen to the Joint Union, who organises private sector workers, and to an even greater extent the members of the Joint Union, who are clear that we need good rules to interact with all countries in Europe, including the United Nations. because it is a strong trade agreement, but also because in many other areas it gives us good conditions for cooperation with Europe. Then I would like to ask Moxnes: has he now realized that the workers are right and he is wrong about the EEA?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1154	I spoke, among other things, with Roar Abrahamsen in the Fed in Bergen last spring. He said about the experience of the EEA agreement: they don't take in local labour on the yards and fly in 500 Eastern Europeans, who are underpaid, and who are flying back again. It is the consequences of the non-regulated labour flow of the EEA Agreement that employers are given the opportunity to scald and choose with workers and exploit people from poorer countries, thus also undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. These are the consequences for those who work in the industry, in transport, in car care, and not least in the construction industry. The Joint Undertaking went from a clear yes to the EEA to no longer active for the EEA. It was an important step in the right direction at the national meeting this fall, which I followed very carefully, and the decisions are interesting to read to everyone at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1160	I would like to congratulate the representative of Moxnes on relatively ok polls lately, but I am deeply concerned about the way in which Red grows. It gives me cause for concern, because it's a party that grows consciously to create contradictions in society. They serve to lift people up without any particular foundation. They're talking about a class struggle that only exists in Red's reality. They have a divisive rhetoric. We hear talk about welfare professionals and those with suction pipes down into the state treasury. In fact, this risks splitting up the stable, safe country we have, which has actually become stable and safe precisely because we have rejected Red's tank goods earlier. Will the representative Moxnes eventually admit that this rhetoric has gone too far, and lie down at a different level in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1165	It was a very precise description of the performance of the Advance Party, i.e. the former and long-standing government partners – of how they act both in the public and elsewhere. We bring in the Stortinget, which has been a defect for many decades, to point out that very many in Norway are being overpaid for the job they are doing, and that there is extensive social dumping in the industry by industry, because the Right, together with the Workers' Party, has released the pay competition from all over Eastern Europe into the Norwegian labour market through the EEA Agreement. We stand up for the people who are hit by social dumping, whether they're the people who build the buildings we're going to move into, the people who wash our cars, or the people who work in hotels and restaurants. We stand up for those people. It's not an artificial contradiction; it's a real conflict, which we're dealing with and we're going to do something about, not least to get better conditions for those at the bottom of our country ladder.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1170	I notice that the representative owes it to the Progress Party. There's a lot of mirrors on the house here, and I'll encourage the representative to look in them, because if you're looking for them with the most divisive rhetoric, I think you'll find them in Red. I want to remind you that behind the labels that are distributed in the east and west and south and north, there are people, and they have names. They're called Hilde Hjelseth or Britt Børke or Annette Hovde. These I'm referring to, are all the owners of small kindergartens that lie syllables on whose representative Moxnes and his party have influence in this room. I don't have any more questions for the representative, but I think the left-hand side of this room has to ask myself the question: Can this party ever give power and influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1179	The answer to that is a clear yes – wait and see. As far as welfare professionals are concerned, a large majority in Norway – far into the electoral mass of the Christian People's Party – agree on a simple principle, namely that when tax money is granted for public welfare, whether it is for kindergartens, for health care, for child protection, that money should benefit users, unabated. So they're against the fact that someone can take money away from the children's protection and away from the kindergartens and for private enrichment. They also see that the players are mainly heavy commercial companies with billionaires as owners, who enrich themselves roughly and without hindrance to take money from the community to their own wallet. It is the people most opposed, in large majority, also in the Christian People's Party. That's why Red wins, because we're on the majority side, while the Right, that's the minority position, that defends the richest's right to be enriched in common budgets, loses. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1186	For the sake of order, the President reminds us that a line will end up in a question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1191	Red is the Norwegian modern and cool version of communism, which emphatically emphasizes that they fight for the interests of workers. In Norway, however, workers work in small and medium-sized private enterprises across the country. These are well-run businesses that we others think of as community builders, but which in the Red's program are negatively referred to as capitalists. Only by taking control of the working class, abolishing capitalism, etc., will it be possible to create a world of equivalency, says Red. This has echoed dogmas that have been performed in regimes that we don't like to compare with, to put it mildly. I doubt that owners of small and large companies are ready to give the key away if Red comes to power. How has Red intended to take over the management of the companies in Norway without brushing dust from the armed revolution as a tool – the word the party has now censored or made out of its own principle program?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1198	I would first like to remind the Christian People's Party of the words of Scripture: «You cannot serve both God and Mammon» – and not least the fact that capitalism is in many ways like a kind of Matthew effect, that the one who has, he will get, and from the one who has nothing, even what he has shall be taken. That is the problem of capitalism. That is why many Christians are socialists, because they see that capitalism means that large values are being gathered on ever fewer hands, and that the majority are being deprived of the possibility of a decent life and of a life of poverty – we see it globally by the fact that the ten richest people of the world own as much as the poorest half of the entire population of the globe. That's the core of capitalism. Instead, we want democratic governance of the economy, the majority of whom lay the framework for development, but also, of course, to have room for private enterprises. It's Red clearly on in his program.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1208	The Granavolden platform sets out a clear direction to address the major challenges facing Norway. The work is well under way. The government is working on a major communication on competence policy. A number of initiatives have already been taken: Sectoral programme to renew the competence of people in sectors exposed to migration and digitisation adaptation of the support scheme in the Loan Fund to make it easier for adults to combine education with work and child care obligations; strengthening the efforts of young people between 16 and 24 years of age who have fallen out of secondary education; more flexible continuing training provision In the context of the reporting on gross domestic product, the policy on competence shall be further developed. This is absolutely necessary, because our working life is changing rapidly. We cannot completely remove the uncertainty that arises when a job is changed or replaced, but we can ensure that it is possible to replace or fill skills, so that you can still be at work, and that no one goes out to date in our working life. Tomorrow, the government receives the Klimakur 2030 report. There is a report that the government has taken the initiative to produce. Based on this, the government will establish a plan to cut non-quota greenhouse gas emissions. Norway will have a emissions budget for the first time. The reason why this is coming now is that the government has previously set the most ambitious climate targets for some Norwegian government ever. Through a completely new initiative by this government – joint and committed implementation with the EU – we are facilitating the achievement of tough climate targets while maintaining Norwegian business conditions equivalent to their competitors in Europe. Climate policy has thus been strongly influenced by this government. The objectives are much more ambitious, we are in the process of tightening up the instruments, taking better care of Norwegian jobs, and we have a framework in place where for the first time it becomes clear and clear how much needs to be cut where and when. Although the most important thing lies ahead of us, we already see the result of the course conversion during today's government. Greenhouse gas emissions have now fallen three consecutive years. Work to achieve the climate goals and to ensure that no one goes out to date in our working life is directly involved in people's everyday lives. At the same time, there are matters with a long-term perspective and a great seriousness. If we are to succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society, we cannot get out more than the earth can bear. And if we're going to be able to finance our welfare, we can't let people fall out of work. The sustainability of our society will be central to the perspective message that the government is working on. It is our duty to leave society in at least equal condition to the next generation that we took over from the previous. One of the major challenges facing us is that the proportion of older people in society is increasing sharply. It will put to the test the ability of society to provide good care. Even today, we have challenges. Often, the basic thing is that it fails: activity, meals, community, health care and getting the offers to hang together. A safe and active old age is an important goal for our government. The quality reform Life throughout life must contribute to this. Thanks to extensive efforts by the municipalities, engaged and competent employees and not least by relatives, very good care is now being provided. Experience shows that due care is fully possible. The reform is about the fact that in the future we will be much better equipped to learn from those who have already succeeded. This work is now being carried out around municipalities – with great commitment. I'm glad, because our older ones deserve a worthy old age. The sustainability of our society also depends on the fact that we all experience being part of this society – that as few as possible experience falling outside or not having the same opportunities to succeed. It is important for everyone, and it is especially important for children. We want a society where hope and dreams can become reality for everyone, not just for anyone. Through the Granavolden platform, a child reform has been initiated. The most important thing we do to combat poverty and inequality is to get parents to work. At the same time, we need to do more to ensure that the children who grow up in low-income families have the opportunity to be with other children and to participate and develop – not to feel that they are outside. This is why the government has increased child-restraint for the smallest children. And now we are working on a cooperation strategy to promote participation and strengthen the opportunities for children in low-income families. The aim is for more people to carry out education courses, to have good and safe living conditions, to participate in organised leisure activities and to gain better access to health services. For the autumn we also extend the experiment with leisure card schemes for children in different municipalities. The leisure cards may be used to cover the participation fee for recreational activities. The government is also working on an equidistant reform. It shall contribute to addressing everyday challenges for families with children with special needs. Too many people have to spend their time coordinating services that are not related, unnecessary reporting or just fighting for their rights. Services need to be easier to deal with and better connected. Equal opportunities reform should help parents to have better time to be just what they are supposed to be – parents, not care and assistance personnel. We are on the way to working well both with the long-term, major challenges for Norway as a nation and also with everyday challenges for people in this country. But we have some framework conditions. We live in a more uncertain world, and it faces new challenges. We simply cannot take our security for granted in the years to come. The government is going to pursue a clear alliance policy. There should be no doubt that Norway's place remains among those countries that end up in freedom, transparency, democracy and the market economy. That is why we must also continue to strengthen Defence. That is the starting point for the government’s work on the long-term defence plan, for security is an important part of the Norwegian welfare community. When security is challenged, we must take strong hold. We are taking the development of gang and youth delinquency most seriously. We do not want to accept that local community areas are perceived as unsafe and inaccessible to people most because of gangs, crime and drug trafficking. The government is therefore going to escalate its efforts against gang and youth crime. I chose to make a brief statement on Tuesday on the basis that we have a new government. I did that because the big declaration debate and direction for this government were set when the Granavolden platform was established. Now we're in the process of implementing it, and that means we're going to the Storing with big and important things. We bring things in the climate field. We're bringing things up about the defense. We'll be safe. We come up with questions aimed at getting a better health care system and other issues that are going to be important for the future. We're no longer a majority government, but I think we have a good basis for finding good solutions in Stortinget. And not only do I, but also voters around Norway expect that through the decisions here we actually contribute to better solutions for people every day, that we ensure that Norway can deliver on some of what Norway has been good at, and that we all take responsibility – whether we are in opposition or in position – for the decisions we are making. So the government is doing a job – also in a lot of other areas than those I have mentioned. Much of this will come when we present our cases to the Storting afterwards. Our objective is that this together should contribute to a greener, more modern and safer Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1267	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for addressing several important issues in his contribution. I have some follow-up questions, and we start with the older ones. We're in the decade where we can demonstrate and we know that we're getting older. Many will do well themselves, many will do well at home, but there will also be many needy ones. It may be the most important task of society for health, care and safety to ensure that they can face a safe age. Yes, it is important to learn from experience. Many of the municipalities that you should learn from, and that have been highlighted in the big news Life throughout your life, are Arbeiderparti-municipalities, but the state also has a responsibility. My question is: Is the Prime Minister sure that we are on track to develop capacity, i.e. construction and places to be, quality, that there are daily offers for dents and safe offers, and that there are enough people? Is she sure we're on track as we go into the 2020s?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1274	I believe that we are facing many challenges in the future in the care of the elderly. Our government has been very concerned to ensure that we get more capacity in the care of the elderly. At one point we were run over in Stortinget – fortunately we are now back on track, so that municipalities applying for money to build new institutions also need to increase their capacity. We have had a system that has strongly stimulated maintenance and renewal rather than new construction and new sites. It was a challenge that the Workers' Party also gave the government in the previous round, which also helped to reduce the speed of capacity building in the future. We think it's important. In terms of quality, we believe that the work we are doing with the Life Life Reform, which is a very good foundation work around the municipalities, is extremely important. To the third point, about larger daily deals: we have now legalized this. There are several types of day services, but we have a lot to do, not least when it comes to recruiting enough people and providing high enough skills and quality in care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1283	I have to interpret it as the Prime Minister is safe on the three points. We agree that we need to create values in order to be able to distribute to this important field as well. Then I would like to ask a question to the Prime Minister: the National Assembly of the Labour Party was in favour of setting aside the development and impact assessment of the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. We made a unanimous decision that we should have development, not the winding-up of our industry. We're going to put a lot of effort into developing skills, we're not going to have an end date for this industry. There's a lot of our future here. The Prime Minister was clear that the Workers' Party, with that decision, no longer stands on the side of industry. Other members of today's government said at the time that we failed the oil worker, the industrial worker and the LO. During the weekend, Oslo Right decided to protect – not aside, but protect – the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. They also adopted a number of other decisions. Is the Prime Minister’s party ‘Department Oslo’ on the industrial side?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1294	I still believe that it would have been important to have the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja checked out, but I respect that our government does not. There has been a compromise we had to lay the groundwork for already in 2013 in order to be able to sit in government at all – just as it did for the Workers' Party. But I want to be very surprised if the Right Country Meeting was to adopt what Oslo Right has done, for the last time this was up for debate at the Right Country Meeting – in the previous program session – there were three representatives who voted for a proposal that we should not follow up on the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja. Impact assessment doesn't necessarily mean opening, but it means that we have a review that makes it possible to look at how we can protect important values. I think it is important that we have new areas to apply for in the future and that we can look for more. We know that every year from approx. 2023/2024 the impulses for new construction in the Norwegian oil and gas sector will be much weaker than today. This means strong and heavy conversions for those who are involved in construction in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1299	It must be interpreted as meaning that Oslo Right, with the Prime Minister, is not on the side of industry. Good luck with that! Internationally, the United States has presented a so-called Middle East peace plan. It was presented with the Israeli Prime Minister by the President. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said important things in his second comment about the criteria that should underpin a Middle East peace agreement. It must be based on UN resolutions, international law, the main principles of the Oslo Agreement, and not least it must be negotiated by two parties. My question is, has Norway expressed what we think about that plan, the method and the way in which it works, to the United States? Is it clearly expressed to the United States? Or is it like the representative Gruvan said, that you still have time to study the plan? That plan was well communicated – there was no doubt about what it contained, or how it was developed, but has Norway stated clearly?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1308	We've clearly stated in the media communication we've had. We haven't had direct contact with the Americans to tell them we're against the plan itself. We'll find a suitable time for that. But no one should be in doubt about what we have said, namely that a Middle East peace plan should be drawn up, especially for Palestine and Israel, both parties must sit at the table – if not a peace plan. This applies to all conflicts. I criticised former Foreign Minister Gahr Støre once in a time when there were great plans to discuss issues about a peace plan for Afghanistan. Then I said the exact same thing: we must have the government in Afghanistan involved in such negotiations. Others couldn't do it at that point. I still believe this: no peace is held anywhere if the parties are not present. If there is something Norway has learned in its peace and reconciliation work around it, then it is that the parties must be involved if we are to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1313	If there was anything Foreign Minister Gahr Støre knew, it was exactly that. Extension: The Foreign and Defence Committee met last week with our Special Forces in North Norway. These are our leading soldiers. They presented their mission of defending Norway, assisting Norwegian emergency services and participating in international operations. We participate in international operations, and it's the Workers' Party for. We are in Afghanistan, Jordan, Iraq – i.e. in the Middle East – and we need to be at home. My question to the Prime Minister is: Should Norway, in the current international situation, be careful to engage in new international operations, or does the Prime Minister believe that Norway has the capacity to enter into new operations on new continents under new management?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1320	Norway has enough defence capacity to contribute more places than today or more intensively in areas where we are already today. We have room to do that. We have a lower activity now than before in terms of foreign operations and presence, so we have the opportunity. I understand that the question is indirectly really about participating in Mali, and then you could say it right out. Of course, our starting point must always be that we can contribute, that we have faith in the missions, and that we have the opportunity to find solutions, but we must not be in doubt that if, for example, The Sahel area is unable to deliver more peace and security to the population, and we will also notice it, both through terror zones, by IS spreading beyond, and in the form of larger refugee flows towards our country in the future. There are also arguments we need to consider in relation to peace and security in these areas. This is really very close to us, much closer than we think. The government has not taken a decision on this. Of course, we will continue to consult Stortinget. But we have to make sure that we see which conflicts can affect us too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1327	It's been turbulent times. The party of progress has left the government, and the triggering factor for that decision was the government's decision, against the will of the Progress Party, to bring back a terrorist IS member. The whole reason from the government for doing this very controversial operation was the claim that the child was seriously ill. I want to say that I respect the fact that this has been difficult for many parties, but once such a controversial operation has been carried out solely on the basis that the child should have been seriously ill, I believe it is of great public interest that the people get information about the government made a decision on the right basis. Then I ask, can the Prime Minister now confirm or confirm whether the child was seriously ill?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1332	I believe that all people in this country have privacy. They have a protection of their health information. They have a protection for their own integrity. I really think that's a fundamental bourgeois policy, to be absolutely honest, that it should be. This means that it is the parents in this context who in that case have to think and say something about the health status of this child. First of all, it's not that the authorities have information about it, because the health authorities won't give us any more information than they give us about others. It's not something we keep secret or know anything about. But we have based ourselves on the information on the state of health that was provided, which comes from studies conducted by several different health teams inside the camp, and which is the background to what has also been in the newspapers, that both the Red Cross and a number of other humanitarian organisations with health skills thought this child was so sick that it had to get out of the camp. We're based on that information. We cannot later publish the health status of Norwegian citizens or ask for that type of information to be provided without the parents and relatives in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1339	First, of course, I fully agree that privacy should be taken into account, and that people have the right to keep health information to themselves. But now no one has asked for access to details or any journal. You simply ask that you cancel or confirm that it was the case that the child was seriously ill. The Health Service Act states that such information may be provided where there are serious, private or public interests which make it lawful to disclose that information. We have law professors who say that this means the people you can give, and yesterday the lawyer said that the authorities that need information about the boy's health should get it. So it will be possible to get this information if the government is interested that the population will know on what basis this decision was taken. Does the Prime Minister think it's okay to make such serious decisions in the government just based on assumptions and speculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1345	This is a difficult thing. This is a matter in an area where there is a great danger, where there is a great deal of terrorist activity. It is a matter where it has not been possible to send in Norwegian health professionals to determine a diagnosis or other. Had it been possible, it might not have been necessary to pick anyone up. It's a completely different situation. I think the questions asked by the representative are unfair to the integrity and legal protection of a person. So it's up to the parents, in this context, if necessary, to inform and if they want to go out with what's the frame around this. Norwegian authorities have no information related to just how strong or how sick this child is. But in a situation where there is information that indicates that the child is very ill – that comes with the authority of the Red Cross, to the Red Children, to all the others who have been and are in this area – we have to trust it and make some precautionary decisions in a government. Taking the chance at the opposite is among the things that I would seem to be impossible to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1352	As I said, I respect the approach of other parties in this matter and that this is a difficult situation for many, but I also think that you must have respect for those who are asking for such a serious decision and on what basis it was taken. That it is an unreasonable question, I wonder at all the time this is quite common and almost automatic in much less dramatic media matters – if there has only been a minor car accident, it is automatic to inform about the person’s state of health, whether you are seriously injured or not seriously injured. It's because this has a public interest. When the government has made a decision that not only splits the government, but also splits the electorate of the government party – it has shown three opinions now very clearly – it is quite clear that this has a great public interest and is something people are wondering about. It creates speculation when you don't go out and confirm or insist on what the situation is. Can the Prime Minister see that you are helping to keep you alive in speculation when you don't want to go out with the information that you normally give out in other situations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1361	I have no information about this. None of us has information that relates to how serious this is, or else. It's the health professionals who administer this law, and the family who have. So it's not the government that doesn't include health information, because we don't have this health information. However, on the fundamental question of uncertainty on the basis of which decision-making was taken by the government — that is wrong. The decision-making basis has been well discussed. The decision-making basis is mentioned in the media essays that Red Cross and others have put themselves behind, that they have gone through and looked at the diagnostics that had been made. That was also the basis for them being very active in order for us to have to bring this child out. When we say that they're considered sick, it's because we don't have an official designation, we don't have an official basis to say that we've made a diagnosis or should have done it. But it's known what our decision base was. That there may be uncertainty, and that there may be a mistake in it, it may be. But the decision-making basis is well known.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1370	Yesterday, the majority of Oslo City Council decided that they are against the closure of Ullevål Hospital and a large-scale extension of Gaustad. The people of Oslo, a majority of the people of Oslo, do not want to break up Norway's leading emergency medical environment, a trauma environment that is important for the whole country and has uniquely good professionals who are a great resource. The new hospital project in Oslo has a price tag of almost 60 billion. kr. Now the elected representatives of Oslo City have decided that they do not want this large-scale expansion and do not want to end the trauma environment on Ullevål and split up the emergency medical environment. Does it impress the Prime Minister, and will the Prime Minister, together with the government, make a new assessment when Oslo City no longer wants that expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1375	The question is not whether to build a new hospital, but what hospital and what hospital model to use in Oslo. The hospital model for which the government has provided funding is the best model for Norway as a whole. It is the person who provides the least centralisation of medical work in the future and who contributes to the most widespread dissemination of skills. All the other options contribute to exactly what the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, otherwise talks so much about, namely more centralisation. It will be more difficult; there will be another competitive situation related to it. It will also be significantly more expensive. One of the important questions is to build a new medical guard where the municipality of Oslo has decided to do so, build a new local hospital in Aker and get a much better service for the inhabitants. Stopping this now will mean less treatment for people, it will take longer before you have new hospitals, and it will mean centralising more medical facilities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1382	The chief emergency medicine professionals do not agree with Prime Minister Erna Solberg's assessment. I believe that when the highest elected body in Oslo makes such a decision, there should also be a discussion about it in the Stortinget. The centre party is going to propose that. But I noticed that the Prime Minister doesn't think there should be any new rounds about that particular decision – so I'll go on. I believe that the Prime Minister should listen to the National Assembly. At the beginning of this period, there was also a minority government. There were a number of request decisions that the Prime Minister did not follow up, which the government did not follow up, because it was not legally binding, as the Prime Minister said. It's kind of a political commitment. Now there is a big discussion about NorthConnect, whether to build an export cable for electricity, which will lead to higher electricity prices in Norway, which will weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and make it more expensive for Norwegian citizens. If there is a request decision in the Stortinget saying no to the development of the NorthConnect cable, will the Prime Minister then respect the decision, or will she follow the practice she followed with many request decisions earlier in this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1391	Once we have received a request decision earlier in this period, we have come back to Stortinget with a message about what we want to do with it, and have agreed to it. This means that once a request decision has been issued, an investigation has been made into how and in what way, or what conclusions, the Stortinge takes a new position on that question. It's not like we've overlooked it. We have returned to Stortinget with all the request decisions, and the Stortinget has either lifted the request decisions or agreed on the government's way of handling the request decisions. The picture to be drawn is not correct. I just want to say that I have a great deal of respect for what Oslo City Council is doing, but I would like to remind you that in the past, the representative Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum has been strongly opposed to hospitalization because of the possibility of centralisation. The model for Oslo is the strongest model of centralisation we have – just to bring it with us. In the case of NorthConnect, the government's starting point is that we're going to do a concession treatment. We're going to look at the needs that exist in the future, and what 'impact' this is going to have on all of the electricity supply. I hope that the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, is pleased that we currently have very low power prices in Norway, as opposed to much of what he has given the impression before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1400	When you hear the answer to Prime Minister Erna Solberg now, it is really a non-answer as to whether the Prime Minister will follow a request decision from the Stortinget or not in the case of NorthConnect. In 2018, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Labour Party, the Left Party and the Green Party signed an agreement to join the Acer – giving us power over Norwegian energy policy from Norwegian people elected to the EU. In part of that agreement, there was a plan for how to handle the NorthConnect cable. Is it now possible to understand that if there is a new decision on the NorthConnect cable in Stortinget that will take the form of a request decision, the Prime Minister cannot guarantee that the cable will be stopped – if there is a clear and clear decision from Stortinget saying no to the development of NorthConnect?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1405	The representative believes that we should decide on hypothetical decisions that are not yet taken in the Stortinget. Of course, a minority government always respects the Storting. It's coming back either with how you follow up, whether you follow it, or with suggestions on other ways to do it. It'll be like we've done in all the other minority issues, and that's coming back to those issues. But the government's work now is that this is a hearing investigation. The hearing bodies shall make their views known, and the government shall also have a normal concession treatment, in line with what is agreed with the Workers' Party. In this context, we will make assessments of how the power market is developing in the future, and the likelihood that this will have the consequences that the representative points out. As I said last time I was in Stortinget and answered questions: The experience now is that we have power cables, have helped trigger a lot of new power, because it provides a stable provision. It is nice to know that today's low power prices include: due to very high generation of wind power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1412	In the media today, the representative Stefan Heggelund was from Right out and invited to a new climate settlement in Stortinget. That's an interesting news, because the previous version of Erna Solberg's government has broken the goals of the previous climate agreement and despite many calls from the opposition, it has not been willing to enter into talks about a new climate settlement. That is why we think it is a very positive signal from the representative Heggelund. But there is one important matter that remains, and that is to confirm that there is an invitation from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1417	As I said in my post, we are presenting a climate cure, which is the trade report for all the difficult choices we are going to be making in the next ten years, which is important for people's everyday lives, which is important for different classes, and all of that. It'll be presented tomorrow. That's the professional basis. Then the technical basis goes to the hearing, and then we're going to deliver a big message to Stortinget. I think it is nice that we are able to get the widest possible connection to that treatment, simply because we are going to deliver on an emissions budget for the next ten years that we agree with the EU that we are going to have. This means that we must also have predictability for the same instruments and for what is going to happen. That's why it's a nice thing and it'll be good when we go down in the detail, to have the widest possible cooperation in the Storting to get it done. It gives predictability to business, to organisations and to people in which direction you have to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1425	As far as possible, I understand that the Prime Minister wants, but I expect a settlement to mean that the opposition will also have the opportunity to influence what is agreed. But then we get to come back to it and see what it's like. Today, the free trade movement online newspaper has a look that I think they have every year, on the occasion of what is called the payday, namely that we have now come to the day where the country's top bosses have earned as much as the usual worker does in a whole year. The managers of the 100 largest companies in Norway have an average annual salary of 6.8 million. and have reached the salary that a normal employee can expect for an entire year, in only 21 working days — and in reality, too many workers face wage stagnation and social dumping. Does the Prime Minister agree that this great pay gap is a social problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1434	I believe it is important that, during a period when everyone has actually been in a good position to maintain and further develop Norwegian competitiveness after the fall in oil prices, top managers also have to show moderation in the development of their revenues. There has been a signal we have given quite clearly through several government councils in the past, and as I have also said. It's important to remember that it's not like you can expect moderation if you don't even provide moderation. It is an important part of the future development. So I think that hopefully we'll be able to see better income developments in the years to come, but that means we have to raise our competitiveness a lot. We need to establish more jobs in the future, but also that people get a fair share of the cake that is being produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1441	I'm not sure if I can view it as a confirmation that the Prime Minister thinks it's a social problem, but it was at least a mild call for moderation, and that's good. My last question is related to the edge of the ice, because we're going to discuss a lot this spring. Today we have seen that the Marine Research Institute has been out with clear advice on observations of how the ice edge actually moves. Although we have global warming, the increase in temperature also leads to an upward rise in the temperature curve, that is to say, both the highest and the lowest temperatures are higher than before, so that, in fact, in periods of time, the ice can spread farther south than before. We've seen both the Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute come up with clear environmental advice that it's wise to draw this limit further south. My question to the Prime Minister is, what kind of emphasis will she put on the environmental advice, which is very clear in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1450	I'm a little unsure if the representative Lightbaking actually argued for a dynamic ice edge, because if you were to follow these pieces here, that means you move as you see the images. This is a little bit of the big debate: should you have a dynamic ice edge, or should you draw a little bit more firmer edge forward and say that's where it goes? The government has not finished this work, and I think you should respect that we have a good discussion about these questions. But it's clear that what we're also concerned about from the Right, is that there's a belt from where the ice is actually, which has previously been defined as approx. 50 kilometers, where there's absolutely extraordinary bio diversity, an extraordinary environmental situation that we have to take care of in the way we're going to do it in the future. That's what's also in today's way of thinking, but we still have to keep this with us in the future, because the bio diversity we have there is important to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1457	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1464	I am not really going to extend this debate. I think it's been useful. This final round on climate change is also interesting, because yesterday the representative Heggelund was out with a clear invitation to settle, some of us thought this was a government signal. But the anti-industrial Oslo Right may not need to be listened to like this without further ado. I see the climate minister saying it's a little early to talk about that, and the Prime Minister says she wants to talk to more, but exactly what the point the representative Lightbaking took up is that if there's a deal, it's about listening to the partners you're going into it with, and their views on the issues. I would like to give an explanation of vote on the proposals that lie here, and it is then that the Labour Party is voting in favour of the proposals that we have made. Otherwise, we shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 7, 10, 12, 13 and 14. But an explanation of vote on proposal No. 13, which is about not laying down today's food departments or other food supplies: I would say that we are voting in favour of this proposal because there is a legitimate fear in several places in the country that food supplies are being put down before proper alternatives are in place. We supported a decision here in 2018, which a majority backed, to ensure safe and sustainable birth care by securing today's food institutions. I would like to stress that this does not mean that there cannot be any change in the provision of high-quality food in future new hospitals planned in different parts of the country. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1475	I just have a few comments on the tame of the debate. First of all, there was a very interesting answer the Prime Minister gave to the question of the request decision by the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum. She then said that if the government does not follow them up, they will be sent back to Stortinget, and then the Stortinget will agree that they will not be followed up. No, it's not that easy. This government has added several request decisions because one of the support parties in the Stortinget has bent its neck. It was a majority in Stortinget that decided to introduce the preparedness storage of cereals – the Christian People's Party bent its neck. It was a majority in Stortinget that said we should evaluate the six-year reform. The government dropped it off, the Christian People's Party bent its neck. If today's opposition party is going to do that, an open question. I think it'll be interesting to see if the Prime Minister here will take the chance of leaning on an agreement with, for example. The working party on NorthConnect, or that the Progress Party will finally bend its neck to the government. So I think that'll be interesting questions in the future. We didn't get any clarification on it. But it is clear that if both the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party make clear decisions on NorthConnect or on other issues, we also expect the government to follow up those decisions. And if it becomes a decision to stop NorthConnect, the government has to follow up a decision to stop NorthConnect. It's now a minority government destiny. The debate has also clarified that the Progress Party will largely become a supporting party for the government. Not even the proposals on bears that the representatives of the Progress Party yesterday were in a number of newspapers around the country and said they would promote, can they be supported today when the Centre Party promotes it in the Chamber. So you can go around the country's newspapers and say what you want to do, but when you get to the big hall, you don't want to support what you have to do, because then you have to support the government instead. That's how I think we're going to experience it a number of times. I should not be surprised if they already have an agreement to enter into budgetary settlements, so that the government will be saved both in the revised national budget and in the state budget. I would also like to make a final explanation of vote. The central party will vote in favour of its own proposals, for the proposals of the Labour Party and for proposal No. 14 from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1492	In addition to the proposals that I have argued for earlier in the debate, I would just like to end by mentioning briefly the situation in the Middle East and the so-called Trump peace plan. It is also a relevant question for the Storting, and especially because we believe that the government should have taken a much sharper distance from it than the first reaction from the Minister of Foreign Affairs said. It is a very dramatic step which has been taken unilaterally by the United States and the Israeli Government, and which is the opposite of a peace plan – it is in reality an occupation plan and recognition of the illegal settlements and extension of the illegal occupation they involve. The SV has therefore made proposals today that Norway should prepare for the recognition of Palestine. A few years ago, there was a momentum for this among several countries, where Norway unfortunately did not join. It could have created another situation if several countries had done it then. Now we have to try to be a counterweight to the one-sided American policy. Then there is a need for a clear policy on peace and the realisation of the two-state solution, which is the only possible path to lasting peace. That is why we are promoting this proposal today. So one explanation of vote: SV will vote for all the proposals promoted by other red-green opposition parties, except for the proposals No. Eight, nine, eleven.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1501	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1518	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity to change lines will be given with up to six lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1525	I will first be allowed to thank the Committee for a good and constructive dialogue across parties. There were high and high expectations of the escalation plan in professional environments as well as among those who are engaged in the political work at Stortinget and in the municipalities. The Committee would point out that most children and young people in Norway today grow up with good mental health. That's good. Nevertheless, it is worrying that studies show that more and more children and young people experience mental distress and suffering, stress, body pressure, loneliness and anxiety. The Committee agrees that this must be taken seriously. In the past, the size has been clear that the government was going to the Stortinget with a comprehensive and obliging escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. We had the government's plan to step up to the hearing in Stortinget on Monday 14 October. A large number of professional environments took part in the hearing, and we received feedback on how best to strengthen the escalation plan for individual children and for society, and on the content of health promotion and disease prevention measures and many other good measures. It did not lack good proposals from the hearing bodies, but it lacked praise. There was a lot of criticism. The Brother of the Criticism is about the lack of binding and concrete proposals with which it accompanies funding. Here, the Workers' Party separates the layer from the government parties. Why are we standing here today? For the Workers' Party, it is clear that we should contribute to policies that will provide good mental health for all children and young people, through equivalent services throughout the country, with obliging escalation plans and funding and in good dialogue with professional environments and organisations. In view of this, as well as the fact that many of the hearing bodies believe that work needs to be done again in the government, our primary proposal is proposal No. 1, to send the plan back. We're disappointed. The professional environments are disappointed. The government has not delivered on the mission of Stortinget. The children’s Ombudsman said in the hearing that the plan does not respond to the challenges facing children and young people. The change factory said they were disappointed with this plan. The Mental Health Council says that there is too much assessment and too little commitment — too much pilot and too little long-term. I could still have, because there has been no lack of criticism. In this case, the Council of State cannot only complain about the opposition of Storting, he may also have to file his complaint against his own professional environments. I'm excited about how the Council of State today gives Storting feedback on this criticism. There are enough good suggestions in the position that we could have adopted today, which would have been a real escalation. The Labour Party today promotes 23 good proposals, proposals that would be new and binding, and that show that we take children and young people's mental health seriously, prevent and rehabilitate. The most important thing in my speech now is to present proposal No. 1 and repeat that we are asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a new comprehensive and obliging escalation plan for children and young people's mental health – as the Christian People's Party and the Left proposed in their time. With this, I take up the Workers' Party's proposal in the setting, and I also warn that we are going to accept the recommendation. I will also come back in later articles to how we deal with the three so-called solutions promoted in the Stortinget today, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1548	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1553	The Ministry of Health and Welfare is proposing a holistic and mandatory action plan for the mental health of children and young people. With the escalation plan, the government will work to ensure that more people experience good mental health and quality of life, and that those who need it will receive a good treatment. The escalation plan includes both health promotion, prevention and treatment-related measures and covers children and young people aged 0-25. As a result, several departments have worked together to draw up this plan. The basis for good mental health is just created in all sectors and throughout society. It is created in families, kindergartens and schools where children and young people get care and the challenges they need, in the arenas for higher education, work and activity where one can find meaning and community, and also through a society that promotes maestering and belonging. When young people's lives become extra difficult, and they get treatment or services from the public, it has a special responsibility to make sure that their voices are heard as well. Fortunately, most children and young people in Norway have good mental and physical health, but the 2018 Youth Data Report states that although many people are happy and content with their own life and health, many people also experience concerns in everyday life. Less than before, they think they're going to live a good and happy life. The part that experiences solitude is high: 14.9 pst. by the girls and 7.2 pst. of the boys in the further education to be very much bothered by solitude. It is alarming that more people even report mental distress and suffering, negative stress, body pressure and loneliness. In addition, it is alarming that we have not had reliable explanations of how much is actually increased, and how much is due to more openness and less stigma attached to mental health disorders. Anyway, we know that getting help early increases the chance of getting better. Over 60 pst. by the municipalities of the country report that mental health problems among children and young people are their main challenge in public health and prevention work. Local authorities are asking for good tools to work systematically to create a health-promoting breeding environment for all children and young people. It is therefore gratifying to see that some municipalities have established a good cooperation with hospitals, as the committee has just seen when we visited Health Fonna. Good interaction is essential to ensure proper help and rapid help. Furthermore, there is a need for stronger participation from children, young people and relatives when deciding on the treatment of mental health protection. For example, serious interference with the personal integrity of the individual is coerced. Then it is important that we strengthen professional rental in the field of mental health protection, and this is precisely necessary in order for us to be able to ensure good treatment. All children have the right to good growth conditions. The basis for government's policies lies in the view of the individual's unique, insidious and inviolable self-esteem. Children are an individual with individual dishes, and the best of the children should always be taken into account. The government's escalation plan includes measures to make help more accessible and close to children and young people who need treatment for mental health challenges. The government will, therefore, both strengthen the digital assistance provision and indicate that health and school services can provide treatment for easier mental health conditions, not just work prevention. The government has stepped up its efforts in the field of mental health for children and young people significantly since 2013. This plan points out a direction for further efforts on the mental health of children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1581	There will be a pause in the debate, and now voting will be called.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1597	The size is then ready to go to voting. Case No. 1-3 have been completed before today. We will proceed to voting in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1611	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Jonas Gahr Støre on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 7-13, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 14 and 15, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 16-18, from Audun Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 16-18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and propose a new tax on the inheritance of large assets.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The size declares global warming to be a national emergency for Norway. The country and the world are in a climate crisis requiring extraordinary, rapid and joint efforts to avoid catastrophic consequences.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prepare for the recognition of Palestine as its own country.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1655	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: «Members of the Government, State Secretaries and Political Advisors shall not be remunerated by retirement exceeding 62,4 % of income.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1672	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Storting to raise a case with proposals that help to increase the degree of organisation, recognising that it is important for many workers to choose to be trade-organised.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1689	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the practice of bear management so that the threshold for taking out bears that harm domestic animals and clean is reduced.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess reduced stocking targets for the number of bear juveniles, in particular in regions 6 and 7’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1712	There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to grant municipalities the right to a local veto against wind power development on land.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1729	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Seven, ten, twelve, and thirteen of the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to provide a communication on the charging policy.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to instruct the Police Directorate to stop all decommissioning and all cuts at police posts until the police reform has been evaluated.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a statement on Norway’s relationship with the EU in the field of energy.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that none of today’s food departments or other food services are laid down.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1763	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure the pension from the first crown for all, at the latest, in the context of the State budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that persons on redundancy pay are given the necessary time to clear up work or social security, and without losing the benefits before they are completed, through a flexible and custom-made use of the provisions derogating from the general time limit.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to maintain the screening plug-in for disability pensioners born in 1954 or later.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked by the government, in the context of the revised national budget, to submit proposals on funds to counties in order to reduce ferry tariffs and ensure the transition to low-zero-emission travel in a way that does not burden the expenses of general travellers.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to decide on the provision of a guarantee that all students qualified for it will receive an apprenticeship.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the proposal for a revised national budget for 2020 to reverse the reduction of the benefit scheme for children’s glasses, ‘Children’s glasses/youth under 18 years of age’. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1808	The President proposes that the statement by the Prime Minister on the composition of the Government held at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 28 January 2020 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously. As the debate on file No. 5 was not completed, will vote on case no. 5 is taken at the next meeting in Stortinget. The next case that is being voted on on today's map is case no. 6, which is listed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1864	Point 139 is proposed to the Energy and Environment Committee. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1871	This concerns our proposal on NorthConnect. We want to deal with this in accordance with Section 39(c) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. The reason is that it is necessary for the Stortinget to clarify quickly whether it is a majority or not for NorthConnect on the Stortinget in the interests of interested parties, such as the Norwegian Industry, the power companies and the trade union movement. That is why we want a treatment that is then a few days of transparency and then treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1876	In the case of NorthConnect, the Centre fully shares Red's view, but it is now a proposal for consideration in the Committee of the Center Party on NorthConnect. There is one more thing that is referred to in today's Minutes, from the Progress Party on NorthConnect, and as far as I know, the Labour Party has also announced a matter of NorthConnect. Then I think it's most neat that all the cases are discussed in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1881	Like Mr Arnstad, I believe that all the proposals relating to NorthConnect should be discussed in the Committee, where there are more proposals for consideration at the moment. There is no need to treat this disorder.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1886	The representative of Moxnes has therefore requested urgent procedure under point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that the proposal is reviewed by the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration. The President will point out that the Committee has a different proposal on NorthConnect for consideration, in addition to the fact that a proposal from the Progress Party on the same subject has also been proposed and adopted for comitology today. reference point 138. The President's proposal is that item 139 should be sent to committee. Alternatively, the proposal of the President and the representative of the Björn Moxnes for urgent procedure is to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1902	The President's proposal on comitology has thus been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1954	About half of us have mental problems during our lives. Some are hereditaryly burdened and may become ill without any special incident, others need help after personal crises such as death and accidents or when they are in a difficult family situation. In many cases, the cause is actually completely uncertain. We in the Progress Party are committed to providing children and young people with the tools they need to improve their mental health. That is why, in our government period, we have strengthened health centres, established bullying agencies in all the counties of the country, demanded psychological competence in all the municipalities of the country and introduced lifelong learning in the school. In order to ensure good mental health, we need services that see the individual more closely. Therefore, in 2019, the Progress Party and the Government introduced new package courses for children and young people’s mental health, which will help to make the individual much more visible and adapt to treatment. Where people have had to wait in line for months in the past, they must now know what will happen when it happens and who is responsible. This shall improve the follow-up of the individual and facilitate the provision of assistance. For the Advancement Party, it is important that all people have an influence on treatment and the right to choose a treatment site. The progress party got a lot of penetration in this field when we were in government. Now we are no longer in government and need to point out clearly new measures we believe it will be important to do more of them in the future. In recent years, we have also tried to persuade our former government partners to allow health care professionals to refer children and young people to the paediatric psychiatry. The progress party believes it is important that all children in need of help have an adult to turn to to get it. For many children and young people, the health care provider is the person they dare to address — at least in front of the doctor, to whom they often have no relationship at all. The health care provider at the school or health centre often has better time to get acquainted with the child and build a trust relationship. Therefore, we believe in the Progress Party that they can be as well able to assess whether the child needs further follow-up in the BUP as it can be, and therefore they should be given the opportunity to refer directly. The Party proposes in this case to carry out a test project to see if this can provide positive experience. Therefore, we do not support the proposal of the second part of the opposition that this should be implemented, but we are proposing a pilot project in the first place in order to gain experience from this before concluding whether there should be a permanent scheme. Young people need to be able to master their own lives. They need to be seen and get early and good help when they need it. This means, among other things: freedom from violence and sexual assault and care failure. This is a major and serious problem, and we in the Progress Party will fight it. Age-based health control tests test the child’s language development, behaviour and development. The health centre may detect hearing or vision impairment, which is particularly important before school starts. Through this follow-up, we can also avoid and detect violence, abuse, negative social control and other care failures. The health centre plays a crucial role in providing information and guidance, and the vast majority of parents appreciate this offer. But there are some kids out there who never come up with these health checks. There are families who deliberately fail to show up, in fear of being revealed, children who never get the opportunity to meet other adults and tell about their difficult situation in a dysfunctional family, before they start school. The Progress Party believes that municipalities should have an obligation to follow up the children who are not subject to age-based health control. These are the children you should be most concerned about. That is why we are now proposing that the municipalities be given an obligation to contact and visit the families who are not subject to age-related health controls, and I expect the government parties to support this. In addition, health centres currently have a four-year check to assess the development of the child’s language — in the child’s mother tongue. That is what the Progress Party believes is the wrong focus. It is not crucial in any way that four-year-olds can have their mother tongue, which is crucial, being able to Norwegian. In order for children to develop social skills, feel belonging and togetherness, make friends, they must be able to speak Norwegian with them. It is essential to prevent exclusion and solitude. That is why, in the Progress Party, we propose that all children carry out a compulsory test of Norwegian knowledge during the four-year check, and I also expect the government parties to support this. A good childhood can last forever, but unfortunately it can also be a bad childhood. Preventing mental ill health and building strong children and enabling them to master their own lives is simply one of the most important things we do. I am therefore pleased that the government, when the Progress Party was part of it, had implemented so many important measures for the mental health of children and young people. Now we're not part of the government anymore, but we're going to follow this area closely from the sideline and challenge the government where necessary. With that, I will address the loose proposals that the Progress Party has made on the matter, and inform you that it is only those that we are going to vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1977	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e1982	The government has provided a stepping-up plan for children and young people’s mental health. There's a great need for that. According to the government, the plan is whole-hearted and binding, the center party thinks he's not. At the hearing of the committee, the plan was highly dissatisfied – he was vague and had a great lack. The medical unit did not think it could be called a stepping-up plan. The children's office said he should be sent back to the government. The centre party takes these feedback seriously. There must be an uncommitted Storting Plan that is not in any way a leading plan that will contribute to a real strengthening of the Services. There is also a great weakness in the plan, which is called holistic, that he does not deal with mental health protection at all. When we know that one of the three sent to the paediatric psychiatry is being rejected, it is clear that this should also have been included in such an escalation plan. So we are behind the proposal to send the plan back to the government, and we are asking the government to present a new, whole-hearted and mandatory escalation plan for children and young people's mental health. We will vote against the proposed plan during the voting. We are behind a lot of suggestions in the setting. I want to talk about them a little bit. We propose a separate notice of student health. We have a lot of facts about mental health in students, and we need a big message on this topic. We suggest that the purpose paragraph of the health and school services is not extended to include the treatment and follow-up of mental and somatic disorders. The trade community agrees with that assessment, and we do not think it is right for the Storting to impose this on it. It's going to be a different health care service than we have today, which works very well. We suggest that there should be a separate child-protection reform, in line with the NOU proposal on new child-protection legislation, just to ensure health care for children in the field of child protection. We also suggest that all plans to weaken child and youth psychiatry and district psychiatric centres be put on hold until we have been given a hospital plan. We want ownership of real estate to be removed for young people under 18 years of age. It's strange that when we have a stepping-up plan, the set-up is almost not mentioned in the plan. Determiners should be more involved in relation to the mental health of children and young people. We also suggest that all municipalities point to one body responsible for coordinating services for children, and that cooperation on the most postponed children should be included in the statutory cooperation agreements between hospitals and municipalities. We also have a proposal to open the door so that healthcare professionals can transfer to the BUP. I see that the Progress Party will now have an experiment. Attempts are already being made today, including: 1 in Bergen. We can vote in favour of it subsidiaryly. The progress party has voted against this multiple times. We're absolutely sure this is a good system, and we don't need any trials. So to the other suggestions from the Progress Party: One is to ensure that municipalities follow up on children who are not subject to age-related health controls. We've had one thing about this before. It is obvious that the municipalities have such a responsibility today. Parents are legally obliged to participate in health checks. This proposal opens doors, and I do not think it is necessary to make such a proposal in the Stortinget. So to the proposal to carry out a compulsory test of Norwegian knowledge at four-yearly checks: Health stations are based on consent and volunteering, not on mandatory investigations and coercion. I would strongly warn against such a proposal. In addition, the proposal demonstrates a lack of competence in what native language actually means for language development. The National Professional Guidebook, published in 2017, also asked questions as to whether it was right to test Norwegian skills by means of four-year checks at all, because it does not provide language understanding and language skills, and that is what is important for the development of children. So we're not going to support that proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2014	I was so happy when I read that the government has made a stepping-up plan for children and young people's mental health. I've been working with children who need more help from mental health. They've taught me how to understand the mistakes we could change. I was happy, but now I'm disappointed. There are almost no obligations in the plan. The plan is so vague. The Children's Ombudsman, who works for children, said that the plan has major shortcomings. The Joint Organisation of Disabilities, FFO, wrote that the plan is aimless and contains few concrete measures. The medical team asked if the proposal could at all be called an escalation plan. Since the plan is so bad, SV and other parties have made 23 suggestions to improve the plan. We've been talking to the organizations, we've been talking to the kids and the young, we've been talking to health professionals. So there are 23 proposals, and none of them will vote in favour of the government’s parties – none. Children and young people need to feel completely safe in order to be able to tell about the difficult things they need to share. They need to talk to someone if they're going to get the right help. We know that children and young people have a lot of knowledge to improve mental health protection. But in the plan, it is very difficult to see that the government has used user skills. I was hoping that the government would use all the knowledge from all over the country, knowledge from the rich and the poor, knowledge from health professionals and those who use mental health protection. But we see that the Minister of Health has not used the knowledge we have to make a good plan. I was so happy when I read that the government has made a mental health plan for children and young people. I was happy, but now I am disappointed – and a little angry. If the right-wing parties and the Progress Party vote for all of our proposals, we have an opportunity to have a better plan. But as it looks now, the plan is so bad that we have to send it back. The Children's Ombudsman, who works for children, said that the plan has major shortcomings. The FFO wrote that the plan is aimless and contains few concrete measures. The medical team asked if the proposal could at all be called an escalation plan. SV will vote in favour of proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. SV will vote in favour of proposal No. 23, from the Progress Party. SV will vote against proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party, and will vote in favour of proposal No. 26, if the opposition proposal falls. If the government does not vote in favour of our proposals, and if the right parties do not vote to return the plan to the government, SV will vote against the whole plan. We don't need a plan that's so vague and that doesn't have good responsibilities for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2029	In the context of a representative proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party in 2016, the Left was assured that a cross-sectoral strategy for the mental health of children and young people, which would include individuals and communities, would include health promotion, disease prevention and curative initiatives. This strategy should be a pre-work for an economically obliging escalation plan for the mental health of children and young people. It is this escalation plan that we are dealing with today. It has been given – let me add the goodwill – a somewhat mixed reception. I can understand those who are disappointed with the lack of financial commitment in the plan, but I am pleased with those who support the fact that we have started a systematic work towards something great and important through the coordination of many good forces and actions in a cross-sectoral plan. The financing of this plan shall be provided in the budgets in the future. We are committed to investing our resources wisely and sustainably. I dare say that there is hardly anything more valuable to invest in than giving our children and young people a safe and healthy growth. Children are our best investment. The question is not whether we can afford this, but whether we can afford to leave it alone. When the Directorate of Health calculates annual social costs for the staggering 290 billion. kr per year for mental illness alone, we need to take some structural action. It's a work that needs to be done across sectors and professional environments, which we've started with now. For the past two years, I have traveled a lot in the country and met countless representatives of the Norwegian health care system, most of whom believe to be among the best in the world. But I have also been constantly reminded that we have met with a great deal of concern for the mental health of children and young people. We also see statistics for this. Over the course of eight years, students’ self-reported mental ill health has grown sharply. The fight against such challenges must be pursued on a broad front. This plan spells out a direction for further work, and to those who are disappointed that it does not come with money, I would say: This work is a draft – or a dynamic action plan, as perhaps others would call it. It will now be introduced, as it is called, and the work must be done in many departments and in several committees, including my new Committee, the Family and Culture Committee. The list of measures, which go beyond four sides of the plan, in Annex 1 and which would obviously lead to economic exclusion, could be further developed. For example, the Ministry of Culture is not particularly included in the list, and although the Prime Minister has warned our new Minister of Culture not to sign up for all sports, I am convinced that he is on the starting line for children and young people's mental health in more than one exercise. I would like to add that I support the explanation of vote to which the Right has submitted. So we are not going to support the proposal No. 24 and 25, but we're going to go in for proposal no. 26, which the hall will probably get a better briefing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2046	The action plan for children and the mental health of young people covers all children and young people aged 0 to 25 years and shall provide the basis for children and young people to master their own challenges and to live a good life. We're going to empower children to master the challenges that await them. When we're going to teach kids to walk on the stairs, we don't go on the stairs for them; they have to go on their own, but with the support of adults. In our desire to help, we are not going to take on challenges, but we are going to give children and young people the resources they need to deal with life. The escalation plan has a strong focus on health promotion and prevention, and this is because the basis for good health is created where children and young people live their lives – outside the health system. We got a good news yesterday: fewer children were bullied in 2019 than before. We actually see the lowest numbers since the measurements started, and that's very good. I'm proud that the Christian People's Party has had a positive impact on bullying in all states, more teachers, more expertise in bullying in school. Loneliness is a growing challenge among young people, and the Christian People's Party will include in government solitude in the Public Health Act § 7. This means that all municipalities have to lay down a plan for countering loneliness. Other good public health promotion measures may, for example: is what is now happening at school when public health and lifelong learning are introduced there. In addition, the Christian People's Party will work for the introduction of YAM, a suicide prevention program in school, which will enable children to better understand their own feelings, interpret their experiences and master their lives. YAM are measures proposed by Mental Health. Early support and assistance can help prevent problems from growing and the need for assistance becomes more widespread in the long term. I am therefore pleased that we have strengthened health and school health services by 1.3 billion. kr in recent years, but I will continue to work for all schools to have a health care provider or social worker present every day. This isn't enough. We need to continue to strengthen early efforts through good child protection, preventive measures against pregnant women, health centres, family protection and much more. Children and young people who start to wear out mentally need to find the help they need when they need it. Strengthening the school health service and health centre is good, and it is nice that we have got more psychologists in the municipalities, but we have to do more. When we get to the decision-maker with a need for mental health care, we are in many places met with a long list of psychologists we can apply for – yes, a jobseeker-like situation. Although we believe that work can be medicine, I think this is demanding a little bit of the patient, especially given that the patient is in a vulnerable situation, and that getting through is very difficult in many places. Fortunately, many municipalities now provide rapid mental health care that do not require referral from a doctor. We need to find effective measures. Young Arena is such a measure — a co-location of various offers that young people need when they start to wear out, and that is precisely what young people themselves asked for in the hearing: one door to door. There are many actors who will help young people who are struggling mentally. Some authorities say they're not sure about the other actors in the overall follow-up. I believe we have a job to do to clarify roles and responsibilities, so that children and young people can feel confident that they are not alone in the problems. The Fontenehusets play a central role with free lifelong membership. The social support provided by the clubhouse community improves and reduces the need for treatment and rehabilitation. Health professionals are not the only ones who can support living with mental health challenges. It can also be common people, especially those who have faced similar challenges. The fountain houses have proved that. One mother asked her daughter in ten years: – Who would you talk to if you got it difficult in your life? - You, Mom, she answered. And who would you talk to if you couldn't bring it up with me? "Aurora," said the girl. Aurora's the teacher at school. We have been criticised that we have not presented an economically binding escalation plan, but, as the Left's representative said, we will work on this in the budgets ahead. Nevertheless, these are examples showing that the Christian People’s Party’s financial investment in the family, kindergarten, and school promotes good health among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2084	We all have a mental health. Most people who face a serious mental health challenge are given the first time in childhood and youth. That's why it's a very important and correct matter that the Stortinget has to deal with today, that's a matter of how we're going to create good mental health in society, how we're going to prevent mental health, and how we better help children and young people who need help with their mental health. The plan covers all children from 0 to 25 years of age and includes health promotion, prevention and treatment-oriented measures. In our work on the plan, we have received input from children and young people themselves, from organisations, from places of work and from environments of competence. The escalation plan has been developed in cooperation between eight departments, precisely because the basis for good mental health is created in so many other areas of society than healthcare. The plan we have presented has received some criticism because one believes it lacks clear objectives and is not financially committed. I believe that this plan provides a very clear direction for further work on the mental health of children and young people through a stronger systematic approach to health promotion and prevention locally, clear expectations of the establishment of local low-threshold services and a stronger focus on interdisciplinary and dialogue with outreach, multidisciplinary assistance for children and young people with complex and long-term needs. I also think it is wrong to say that the plan is without any escalation. The 2019 budget allocated more than 4 billion. to actions relevant to children’s and young people’s mental health, and corresponding amounts granted this year. As indicated in the plan of escalation, the government will step up efforts to strengthen children and the mental health of young people during the planning period, and we will continue and not least further develop the many efforts being made. Children and young people have been important contributors once we have written the plan, and the recordings they have given us form the basis for the proposals on reinforcements and development. Children and young people have communicated that they want more participation, safe adults, mental health at school and greater efforts to combat body pressure and solitude. That is why we introduce public health and lifelong learning as a theme in the school for the harvest. The escalation plan also contains a number of measures that counteract unhealthy body pressure and promote a positive self-image in children and adolescents. Children and young people have also communicated their desire for a more accessible help. For this reason, the government has strengthened health and school health services by over 1.3 billion. kr in the last few years. This has resulted in over 1,000 new annual works. We have also made sure that the municipalities now have an obligation to have psychological competence. Furthermore, the government will launch a pilot project for the low-threshold treatment of mental health challenges in children and young people. The escalation plan also provides for important changes where it is not primarily about more money, but the need for better interaction and closer cooperation. In the work on the plan, children and young people themselves have communicated that there is a need for closer dialogue with local authorities and specialist health services when you have complex and long-term needs. Now the Health Directorate is investigating and evaluating the cooperation solutions for dialogue before and after the BUP. With early dialogue, more people will receive rapid and proper help, and fewer will receive rejection from the specialist healthcare service. In addition, we are looking for more out-of-office assistance for children and young people who need to follow-up on several occasions. We have now started the piloting of FACT young both in the district of St. Hanshaugen and in the district of Grünerløkka. The teams provide flexible and interdisciplinary outreach assistance to children and young people who need follow-up from many instances. Getting the opportunity to hold on to the school environment and a day-to-day school with learning and mastering could have far more positive ringing effects than what we can imagine today. This is the direction that the plan draws – outreach forms of work and greater interdisciplinaryity, more dialogue and guidance between specialist health services and the municipality. The government has now presented a comprehensive escalation plan with clear objectives and will step up efforts to strengthen the mental health of children and young people through the planning period. I listened with interest to an opposition who believes that their 23 proposals had made a bad plan for a good plan. Well, when I go through the 23 proposals and look at all those that are about the content of the plan, it's basically suggestions that are already in the plan, or that the government is working on. Thus, the opposition must agree that this is a good plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2107	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2112	I thank you for the invitation to say loudly that I think this was a good plan. I don't think so. The background for this, and for the disappointment, is that we compare this escalation plan with, for example: the 2016-2020 phase-out plan for the drug field. That's where the government put $2.4 billion. kr for concrete actions, and we will facilitate this in this escalation plan as well. That's why I think there's a big disappointment out there. From today's pulpit it is shown to be examples from the trade unions. I could mention many heavy players, trade unions, who say that they are disappointed, precisely because of the lack of financial commitment. That is why I want to ask the Council of State if he is really satisfied, and if he is satisfied with the feedback he has received from his own professional environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2117	Yes, I am pleased with this stepping-up plan because I think it draws up a direction for mental health for children and young people, from the health promotion to the advanced treatment area, while at the same time it contains many very clear and concrete measures that we are either working with, or that we are going to work with. I also feel that the main criticism is that the plan is not financially binding. I understand that many are disappointed, but history shows that this government is stepping up its efforts for mental health for children and young people, without us needing a plan for it. Now we also have a plan for that and will, of course, follow up the plan in the budgets that are coming. The contingency plan for drug use contained financial commitments, but the commitments are first fulfilled in the annual budgets, and so will this plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2123	I thank you for your answer. The Committee has just been travelling in the Health Fonna region. I'm very happy about that. In addition to the criticism we received, one of the feedback in the hearing was that there was a lack of cooperation between the types of community health service and specialist health service. It is a desire for a larger plan for interaction. Health Fonna and Health West have a project in progress that gives good results in this area. What is the reason why the government does not provide a stronger leadership in order for it to have more interaction in the future, and possibly refer to the State Council's own state, where full action is being taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2128	I am very pleased that the representative draws up that example, because I think that is a very good response to the challenges that this plan points to. Firstly, there is an answer to the previous question from the representative, who was very impressed that only money would help. Experience gained during visits to Health Fonna shows that many of the challenges that children and young people and parents of children and young people with mental health challenges face in their everyday lives can be solved without more money, but by working in new ways. That is why I was present when the project in Health Fonna was launched. I have followed it very closely after that. This is part of the basis that, in the national health and hospital plan, which the Committee is currently examining, we have said that municipalities, together with hospitals, should establish a health community where this particular patient group is a priority. It is directly inspired by what has happened in Fonna, and this is now to be spread throughout the country through the National Health and Hospital Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2133	Too many children start school without being able to Norwegian well enough. Not only does it give children a weak starting point to follow the teaching, but it also makes it difficult to associate with the social. Last year, 40,000 children in Norwegian school received special Norwegian training. So in Old Oslo City, 40 pst is needed. by the students specific Norwegian training. For the whole osloskolen every four students. The Progress Party has today made proposals to introduce compulsory testing of Norwegian knowledge during the four-year review to ensure that all children can Norwegian at school start-up. Do the Council of State agree that Norwegian knowledge is a prerequisite for preventing alienation, solitude and mental health among the paediatric population? And will he recommend to his pool to support the proposal of the Progress Party that a compulsory test of Norwegian knowledge be carried out during the four-year check?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2142	First, I would like to say that it is nice to answer questions from the representative of Bruun-Gundersen in the main hall, not just at fraction meetings. The point that the representative here takes up is part of the Granavolden platform. The government is tracking Granavolden platform point by point. We have also done so on this point, which is why it is addressed in the big message entitled Tett, which is now being discussed in the Education and Research Committee. In this respect, the government aims to impose an obligation on municipalities to assess the Norwegian knowledge of all children before school starts. One is also working on establishing a tool to map this. So there's something the government's going to follow up. I fully agree with what the representative addresses: being able to Norwegian, both orally and in writing, is important for being part of Norwegian society and for mastering, among other things. It's the beginning of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2151	Health controls are very popular among parents, but there are also children who never care about age-related health controls. So there are a number of families who deliberately choose not to show up, in fear of being controlled, in fear of being revealed as a dysfunctional family. These children never get the opportunity to meet any other adults from public Norway before you start school, and then you're six years old. The representative Toppe believes that parents today have an obligation to follow up the fact that children appear under health control, so the representative Toppe believes that this is no problem. My question to the Minister of Health is whether he agrees. Is it such that all municipalities follow up families that are absent from age-limited health control, either by telephone, on home visits or on a complaint of concern, where this should be relevant? What is the situation in Kommune-Norway in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2158	I agree that it is very important that parents take the children on this type of checks. It's also very important that health professionals follow up if that doesn't happen. There are today very clear leads from the Health Directorate that you should follow up. First, it would be natural to check the population register if they still live in the municipality. If you see that the child still lives in the municipality, it is natural to take a phone and check. And if the phone call gives cause for concern, and it will do so if, for example, someone does. be rejected, follow-up e.g. with visits. Health professionals also have an obligation to notify child protection if there is reason to believe that children are being mistreated or subjected to care failure. This is also a point on the Granavolden platform that we are now working on, to see if there is a need to further intensify the work against the municipalities in this area, and we will get back to that in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2169	After all, it is a positive thing with the new government that there will be multiple numbers for health care professionals to be able to refer directly to the BUP. The center party has suggested it many times and thinks it's a right thing to do. Now there's probably going to be a multiple for a trial project. What worries me is what happens at the other end, because today one in three referrals is rejected in childhood and youth psychiatry. I have requested that this plan should say something about this, because mental health is not about what is happening in the municipality, this is happening in collaboration. My question to the Council of State is how to implement it if there is a decision today, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that not so many are rejected in childhood and youth psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2176	Of course, if Stortinget decides that it will be carried out as a trial project, we'll follow it up. I also believe that there is a much wiser approach to the proposals of the Progress Party than that of the rest of the opposition. The Progress Party is precisely proposing that an initial test be carried out and look at the experience before any indication that this should be a national scheme. I think that's wise, because there are also some challenges to such a proposal, for example. related to the role of decision-makers. Then it's a paradox, I think, that the Center Party is very much in order for this service to refer to the specialist health service, but today it suggests that the same service should not be allowed to be part of a treatment chain for children and young people, that it should still be prohibited for them to be. It does not mean a complete service to the children. It is a paradox that the Centre Party considers that the same persons competent to refer to the BUP are not competent to treat the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2183	The plan's not good. The Children's Ombudsman says that, The Change Factory says it, FFO says it, The Medical Association says it. Will the government listen to the main advice from those who work on the floor, the organisations and those who use the services? They say that the plan should be sent back to the government to build them up and have a better plan. Does the council trust the advice of those who work on the floor, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2188	Yes, we trust the advice from both children and young people and from those who work on the floor. That's why this plan is made in close cooperation with them. Their knowledge base, their proposals and their advice are taken into account in this plan. When children and young people say we have to do something to prevent body pressure, that's exactly what we're doing in this plan, and we're now working with the department to make concrete suggestions. When children and young people say that they need more safe adults around them, that's exactly what the government is doing when we bet on school health services and health centers. And when children and young people say that they have to have more coordinated help, that there shouldn't be so many who are responsible for them, that's exactly what we do when we work to ensure a clearer place of responsibility for children in the municipalities. All the important advice that children and young people have received is part of the plan and part of the government’s work. Then I feel that the main criticism is that they feel that it is not enough financially binding. Then I just want to point out the government's history in this area. We feel obliged to prioritize children and the mental health of young people, and we have shown that in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2195	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2203	After 2.5 years at Stortinget, the hearing for this escalation plan is one of the most discouraging things I have ever seen. I actually want to go so far as to say that the plan was slaughtered by the hearing parties. The plan is described as vague and with large defects. Several hearing bodies are calling for a new plan with concrete, binding objectives that can be evaluated. It is noted that the step-up plan submitted does not ensure a good low threshold for children and young people in municipalities and that the escalation plan should include mental health protection. The Medical Association asks in its call whether this proposal can at all be called a stepping-up plan. The child ombudsman believes that the escalation plan has major shortcomings and asks Stortinget to assess whether the plan should be returned to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We have taken this feedback seriously, and we therefore ask that the plan be sent back by promoting the proposal that has already been referred to: ‘The government is asked to present a new comprehensive and binding escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health.’ We can't afford to fail with this plan. There will be high costs for society and, not least, high costs for the individual, with the mental distress of children and young people. There have been 5,000 more young people in the last four years. Maybe part of this could have been avoided with the right help early enough. Approximately every four students do not complete secondary education. Maybe more would have done it if they got the right help early enough. More and more young girls are suffering from mental illness. We have to make sure that they get the best course of disease possible. Then they have to get the right help early enough. We again see an increase in drug use among young people. To reverse this trend, we need to ensure the right help early enough. Several students state that they have mental disorders. In fact, as many as one in five say that they have intentionally hurt themselves. Equally many have seriously considered taking their own lives. These we must help early enough to avoid injuries and deaths among students. We have to have a better plan than this to get to what we want and all that we need. We don't really have time to wait, but we have to put in place a better plan than the one we have in front of us today – that's why we want to send it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2227	It was interesting to hear the representative Moflag. It could sound like it's the plan to save people, not those who work with them. When we were on committee trips earlier this week, we met several dedicated professionals who told us how they work, and how they change the methodology to get a better everyday life for patients. We see that it works. Health Fonna has been mentioned – waiting times have fallen sharply. Psychologist Ester Marie Stornes Espeset told me how she had handled this in order to get better interaction. This is something that is mentioned in the plan, and is a methodology that we want to use more. I myself was present at the hearing, and I was also overwhelmed by the negative review that many came with. But we also have to see that as a result of the fact that we've already started a lot of what's to be done. In fact, much of what is requested is already underway, and we cannot make a number of new measures simply because we are going to make a new plan. This plan refers to measures already in place. The plan will not be sent back. There are new proposals here today, and as already announced by the Left, I now come with a explanation of vote: we are not going to support the proposals No. 24 and 25, from the Advance Party. We consider this – which has also been explained by the Council of State – to be things that have already started in the department. We, that is to say, the Christian People's Party and the Left, can be on proposal No. 26, and we will vote in favour of that. I feel that there is a majority in favour of that proposal in the Chamber. When a conversation with children who are struggling and the parents of children who are struggling, and see the despair facing a system that does not take one seriously, we all have to have it high on the agenda when we continue to work. The target must be fewer references to the BUP, not more. The goal must be that more people get help right away. The goal must be to enable a primary health service to help those in need of help, and not to be very seriously ill until further assistance is provided. Again, to take what we have learned this week in the committee: fewer referrals make fewer referrals. Remember that every time a reference has been sent, someone is waiting for that clarification. Letting a patient go and wait for help is some of the worst thing you can do to him. I believe this plan is a good basis for further targeted work on this important patient group and to ensure a better mental health among young people. And then we have to be careful to use the tools that we have, right, that we treat people at the lowest possible and most effective level, and that we do not treat more than necessary in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2244	We all have a mental health, and we've all been children and young people once, but the living conditions are constantly changing. It is good that the escalation plan has been a collaboration between eight departments. It shows how extensive and complex mental disorders are. It is good that we have got an escalation plan, and I am pleased that it is a premise that children and young people themselves should be heard. But here's where the glory stops. Children and young people are informed through studies, the Change Factory, the National Association for Children's Protection, the Student Organisation and many others, many more: the assistance and support is not available enough. Help and services don't talk, and the government's proposal doesn't pay for this. In the hearing on Report. St. 6 for 2019–2020, on early action, in the Education and Research Committee, the Association of Psychologists spoke about the importance of making children and young people safe in school, that many suffer from non-diagnosis disorders and that several referral bodies weaken the provision of health services. Better coordination is needed in the first line and adults with time to see, listen and take care of children and young people. The involvement of decision-makers is important for children and young people. Health centres, school health services and health care professionals need to continue the important and out-of-office work. References must have thorough health assessments to produce results, and the school is a very important place to prevent and capture. So I wish these intentions in the escalation plan were also to be found in actions from other departments, in other ongoing work to reduce negative stress, body pressure and loneliness, which children and young people tell us about. The Health Minister recently said in his hospital speech that he perceived critical perceptions related to the mental health service. I hope he also sees the pressure that is increasing, among other things. school and child protection due to reduced psychiatry capacity. The Heier campaign marked its one-year anniversary before today. Here I would say: Hi, Bent, it's children and young people who deserve a new and obsessive escalation plan for their mental health. The Council of State does not recognize that in the opposition we believe our proposals are better than the plan of escalation. But I mean, among other things, discontinuing withdrawals and the reduction of mental health services is a very important point in terms of the nature of the services that children and young people have to offer. In addition, we have had extensive measures such as the standard of personnel in kindergarten, new curricula throughout primary school and not least the commitment to school health, of which we have to see the effect, but it does not work as the Minister of Health will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2259	As others have pointed out in this debate, the plan we are discussing today contains many problem descriptions, but few – if any – new concrete, good solutions. It points to concrete solutions in some individual areas, but it is remarkable that precisely these measures are the result of decisions that the opposition has made, as the Christian People's Party had not yet joined the government. So these are not measures that the government has initially been involved in driving itself forward, this has been driven by an opposition that has burned for these themes. I had hoped that the plan would promote a new, reinforced effort, that it would be binding, and that it would provide new answers. If we're going to lean on the statistics, many kids and young people standing outside of school or working life are struggling with a worse mental health. The proportion of young people who become disabled or who experience health-related benefits is increasing. It even sets highscores. Among the young people receiving redundancy benefits, the total of 70 pst. a mental illness in 2018. Being on the outside of work and school is often a tragedy for those involved, but it's also a tragedy for us as a community. Those who do not have work have consistently poorer health, lower income than those who enter the community. Unfortunately, it is still the background and income of parents that affect children’s opportunities. Many young people facing mental challenges are today being referred to excessive waiting lists, and challenges are growing into problems. Employees working with young people must have time and confidence to provide tailored follow-up and cross-sectoral cooperation. It should be uninteresting to look for excuses in the individual to explain a serious and growing social problem. Politically, it is our job to build thresholds, but I feel that this government is too much responsible for the individual. With this plan, I fear that we will continue as before, where young people with a tough start to life are left to a chaotic system, where the parents' background and education determine the outcome. There are still many young people who get a tough start, who don't feel to fit in, get out, and who have tough days. That's not their problem. That is our problem, and it requires solutions in common, and not least obliging plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2274	As rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to thank you for a good debate here today. I see from the list of speakers that it also continues, but this was one of the main messages I wanted to bring now. I also think that the debate will continue, both in this Chamber and by making demands on the government in the coming time. One of the things that youth and leisure pointed out in the hearing was that it is good that we have started with children and young people's municipal government and youth council. There is now – if we follow the case maps in our own counties and municipalities – placed on the agenda children and young people's health, mental health, etc. They've taken the ball out where children and young people live, and it's great. Now only children and young people are missing – and this is a small challenge for the president, possibly. It was a job we looked at when we had an anniversary celebration here for Stortinget. Then we discussed the possibility of looking at children and young people's ageing, and it may be a long time since we have legalized children and the municipal government of young people and the county council of youth. Let's have high ambitions. And when I wrote it just now, I didn't mean "Hey" by "i," but by "y". But I would also like to have high ambitions from the Council of State, so I'll send that care over to him. In the end, I would just like to give an explanation of vote on the solutions that were submitted here today. The Labour Party shall vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 26, from the Progress Party, if our proposal falls, because then at least we will move forward one step, even though the Labour Party has higher ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2285	In our country there are many children and young people who have Sami as their first and preferred language. This also applies when they meet with health care. For young children who are not yet in control of Norway, this is a particular challenge. Sami children and young people living in the Sami language management areas have the right to be served in their local health and social institutions, but those living outside these areas do not. Sami children and young people live all over the country, and it is important that they too can receive good and equivalent services wherever they live. Minister of Health and Health Bent Höie opened Sámi Klinihkka in Karasjok on Tuesday this week, which is also the new main centre of Sami national competence service – mental health protection and drugs, SANKS. SANKS was established in 2002 and has a national responsibility for research, development and empowerment tasks in the field of mental health protection and drugs for the Sami population in Norway. They provide research and treatment at specialist level for all, but focus in particular on providing language and culture-adapted treatment to the Sami population throughout the country. SANKS serves a large geographical area, and many patients have a long journey. They learned that several patients had to cancel hours because of bad weather, lack of public transport, or that travel time was perceived as so burdensome that they chose to cancel. They have therefore used Skype in conversation with Sami children and young people. This allows more people to receive treatment in a more flexible way. SANKS provides good experience in this process, and this may be an example for the follow-up of specialist health services in other parts of the country with the same long-distance challenges. There is currently little knowledge of the occurrence of mental distress and suffering in Sami children and adolescents. In 2018, a cooperation project was launched between Mental Health Youth, the Sami youth organisation Noereh, the Sameting Youth Policy Forum and SANKS. The Mihá project will provide knowledge of how young partners experience their mental health and the nature of protection factors and risk factors experienced by young people. I am pleased that the results of this study are presented, and I hope it will provide a good basis for the government and health sector to target even more measures against Sami children and young people. We have to make sure that we have an equivalent and good offer for everyone, regardless of where you live and what background you have, so that no one falls outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2298	I need to correct the Center Party a little, which in connection with the fact that we in the Advance Party propose that municipalities follow up children who are not subject to age-limited health control, believes that it is opening doors. The centre party has now chosen to leave the hall, and it is a pity, because then they are not given the opportunity to clarify in what way they think it is to open doors. Parents today have an obligation to help children participate in health checks, but where and how they are followed is strictly optional. I know that there are some municipalities that are good at following up children and families that are absent from age-specific health control, but there are great variations here. The party has a expectation that it will take an active role and follow up with telephone calls or home visits from the families who, for various reasons, choose not to show up on health control. It is very surprising that the Center Party does not take this problem seriously. Maybe the few kids who really needed society to set up don't mean enough for the Center Party? The second proposal of the Centre Party has chosen to oppose is the proposal to carry out a compulsory test of Norwegian knowledge during a four-year check. Here, the Centre Party believes that it is voluntary to be integrated – that it is very important that children and young people should not have to learn Norwegian if they do not want to. I'm reacting to it, because the Center Party has not given these children a single thought. It is unsavory naive not to follow the language development of children. It's doing children a service, because just the language is crucial to getting the benefit of education when you start school, to get social and community. There are now over 40,000 children in Norway who receive specific Norwegian training because they lack basic Norwegian understanding. It's not a trifle. These are children who had absolutely needed society to set up early in their lives and put in place measures where they had the opportunity to make sure that they had the best possible prerequisites for success at school. But the Center Party is not so very concerned about children and young people's mental health when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2305	I'm disappointed. In 2014 stated 20 p.m. of students to have symptoms of severe mental distress. In 2018, the proportion had increased to 25 pst. In 2013, there were 305 daily seats in the BUP, in 2018 there were 262. The government has cut 17.4 million. kr in parental support measures. We know that suicide rates are increasing in Norway, but not in Sweden and Denmark. SV received a majority in 2018 to make it more difficult to market cosmetic surgery that contributes to an unhealthy body-sideal. It is good that the government is following up some of the SV's proposals. It's nice to have a good plan, but it's those who are going to work with the children, who are going to work on the plan and help the children. They need more people to work. In the budget debate, SV proposed 5 billion. kr more to the municipalities, and we proposed 1 billion. kr more to the hospitals. But the government voted against it. It is important to cut effort-driven funding in mental health protection, it is important for those who work with the children, and the children say it is dangerous for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2314	One of the first things to do when we got into the government was to strengthen the health center and the school health service. Health centre and health care professionals are the first line service for children and young people, and in schools the health care provider has an incredibly important task. They're in places where the kids are, and that's important, too often it's not just about getting help, but it's about getting help on time. It is frightening that the proportion of young people struggling with mental health is still increasing. There are several who struggle with solitude and who experience concern in everyday life. It's a development we have to take seriously, and we have to find good solutions to change this pattern. Then I have registered that there is a desire for more money in the escalation plan from the opposition. Firstly, it is not always the case that more money is the solution to everything, and secondly, it is not the case that the government has not worked on this field for the last six years pending an escalation plan. There's been a lot of work going on, and we're much better rusted than we were before. In the period from 2013 to 2020, the government has granted more than 1.3 billion. kr to health centres and school health services. As a result, in 2017, we had 544 more health care professionals than in 2013. It continued to increase by 125 health care professionals in 2017. In school, we've had the theme of lifelong education and public health. It shall include, inter alia: is about providing children and young people with tools to deal with difficult thoughts, feelings and relationships. From 1 January, all municipalities will have psychological competence. This was adopted against the red-green voices in this room. It's about making sure that the offer is close to those who need it. Not least, we are in the process of developing a package of drugs and mental health. We've done a lot, but we have to do more. This plan is a good starting point for continuing and strengthening the work on children and the mental health of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-30.ana.ud5e2325	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
