ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e28	From the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Oslo, Kristoffer Robin Haug, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e53	Kristoffer Robin Haug is present and will take the seat. The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e60	On behalf of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Roy Steffensen, Terje Halleland, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Bård Hoksrud, Morten Stordalen, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to accept the right of reply from the county council and the state's roads in matters of planning and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e65	The representative of Terje Halleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e70	I would like to promote a proposal by the representatives of the big business Sylvi Listhaug, Kjell-Børge Freiberg and myself on the postponement of the requirement of zero emissions in the world heritage fjords from 2026.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e75	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e80	I am delighted to present a proposal from representatives Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself to develop a new national bike strategy for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e85	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e91	I am pleased to make a proposal from the SV Group, the representatives of Solfrid Lerbreck, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, on a public complaint and compensation scheme for trans-persons who have undergone irreversible sterilisation, and proposals for a third legal gender category.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e96	The representative, Mr Ingarill Olsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e101	On behalf of Sverre Myrli, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Kirsti Leirtrø and myself, I would like to make a proposal that obligations relating to the carriage of goods and local passenger traffic by the coastal route be maintained without delay with a minimum of 50 pst. of the capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e106	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e122	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e131	After last week, with the debate of the throne and the budget, there are two issues that are at the heart of the year we are facing a election: the inequality in the Norwegian society and the consequences of it, and how our working life evolves, whether it is order or disorder. I was reminded of the timeliness of this last night when I flew home from Stavanger with SAS. On my way out of the cabin, I was talking to pilots and cabin crew. They're in a difficult situation, they admit, the coronary situation brings it, but something new has come up. We have a new company on the way into aviation in Norway that illustrates that an industry that has been accustomed to order is now looking disorderly to be reported. Wizz Air has a group manager who characterises trade unions that are dogmatic and inefficient, believes that trade unions occupy the companies, call them childish and states that trade unions are not their culture. This is outrageous in itself, but it is also descriptive of what is happening in parts of the world of work. Most in Norway work in serious parts of their working life, but in parts of it there is a development of unprofessional rentals, too much part-time, paylifts and illegal contracts, such as in hotels and restaurants, parts of construction and facilities and car washes. Workers stay alone. Those that are most uncertain from before are even more exposed. They are offered to an employer, and they have nothing to do with if the manager was to treat them badly. It's a source of increasing inequality. I think most in Norway will distance themselves from such statements as this manager makes. I think Erna Solberg will, too. But the question is, what do we do with that? This company is on its way in. It shall be established in Norway. What signals does it send that we get an actor who has the attitudes toward people who do an honest and important job? What is the Prime Minister's attitude, and what does she think to do with this very unfortunate relationship?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e142	I agree with the representative Jonas Gahr Støre that attitudes of the kind that the Wizz Air manager has shown related to the organisation of work are unfortunate. It is not in line with Norway’s governance and Norwegian society’s governance. In Norway, it is absolutely essential that we have freedom of organisation. It is not the owners or managers of companies who decide whether people are organized, it is people themselves who are employed, who decide whether they should be organized. Now it's like Wizz Air as a company already flying in Norway, on some flight distances out of the country, and it's an airline that's registered, and of course has the opportunity to establish itself in our country to operate. There are, of course, limitations on what you can do, but besides that they have to deal with Norwegian laws and regulations. There are Norwegian employment conditions, Norwegian employment contracts, that is to work with and, of course, allow organisation, in line with all other employers who are active and organise themselves in-house in Norway. There's not going to be any difference between that and other airlines. We expect everyone to follow Norwegian laws and regulations, and it will be absolutely fundamental for them too if they are to establish competitive offers in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e149	There are major changes in international aviation, and what that picture will look like when this crisis is over, we don't know that. But what we see is that these low-cost companies come in and establish themselves. How they establish their head office, where they deliver, from where they organise — it is a rather laborious structure, which intends to avoid being imposed on policies and ways of acting. The Workers' Party has previously proposed the incorporation of the ILO core conventions into human rights law. This applies, inter alia, to: the right to organise and the right to require collective bargaining. We have ratified the agreements. But if we get it into the Human Rights Act, it will make it even more clear that it is forbidden to refuse to organise. It establishes standards, it raises the threshold to bypass it in the ways that such companies are good at. The Wizz Air manager has boasted that they don't have trade unions. Will the Prime Minister review that question? It was voted down by the bourgeois majority when we promoted it last. We'll promote it again tomorrow. What's the government's attitude to that now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e158	Refusal of trade union organisation in Norway is prohibited; there is no doubt about it. It is the individual and group of employees who decide whether to organise themselves. Everyone has the right to demand a collective agreement at their place of work. There are already laws and current labour law in Norway. So there's no doubt about it, and there's no need to incorporate an ILO convention to do that, because it's absolutely fundamental in Norwegian employment. Those rights exist. Then we'll decide if there's a proposal in Stortinget to review whether there's any new relationship to this. We have from this government been reluctant to incorporate several international conventions into the Human Rights Act, because it has primacy over everything else, and because we have a challenge now that too much power is being moved out of this hall and over to other organs. We've been concerned with the old clear position: all the power in this hall. We have therefore been conservative and reluctant to incorporate several international conventions. And it's a long line, except for the ILO.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e165	There will be follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e170	I think this is an expression that being conservative and reticent is not enough to deal with these cancers. There is now one thing about the nuclear conventions, we are promoting that proposal, but I also want to say that this is a government that now for seven years each year has made it more expensive to be professionally organized. It is a government that writes in its Declaration of Accession that they recognise the unorganised labour market. It is clear that it is relevant to such issues. It's sending signals. So if you want to be conservative and reticent in this field now, where in parts of the world of work, situations arise where you bypass rights, where the balance of power between labour and capital, and those who work and those who employ, are shifting, it's too passive. The serious thing about it is that the serious actors in these industries get hurt. They're going out of competition. I met entrepreneurs in Stavanger yesterday who build, have apprentices, meet the requirements – they feel that threat very seriously. Why does the government not have any more forward-looking proposals to meet this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e177	In Norway, we have a high level of organisation compared to the rest of Europe. We have had the same level of organisation from 2013 to 2021, despite the fact that the trade union deduction has not been adjusted every year. The trade unions then have to offer what is attractive to join. Such a development, as one sees in some industries, means that there should be an even greater reason why people see the benefits of being professionally organized, and that trade unions also have to base it on themselves. We have a more organized working life now than when this government joined, because there are more companies that are now organized on the other side. So in sum, there's more organized work than it was before the government joined. Then I am concerned about highlighting one thing: the questions that the representative Gahr Støre said were important to the ILO Convention, that is Norwegian law and right today. Incorporating this with primacy in the Law of Human Rights means only that we then submit that more should be interpreted in the light of interpretations in the ILO rather than interpretations given by the Stortinget. The rights are already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e184	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e189	Let me take this on to another industry, where you actually see relationships that are really far from what we want in Norway. This concerns the industry dealing with car wash, repair of cars to be sold, used cars. It is an industry that is very characterised by undeclared work and very poor working conditions – criminal relations in some areas. A few actors are trying to do this in a legitimate way. I have visited one of them, Møller Medwind, who is betting on contract, agreement, full position and recruitment in cooperation with Nav. But the serious actors say the same thing here as in other fields, that the black actors are spinning around. What they are asking for is an approval system, that one must have approval to operate in that industry. And they've been asking for this for a long time and had been given signals that it could get into the state budget. I haven't seen anything in the state budget about it. It's possible I haven't read it from A to Å, but it doesn't look like it's there. Why will the government not do anything more active and forward-looking to clean up a business that is simply about to be destroyed by black work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e195	If it's an area where we're active and forward-looking, it's just the fight against work-life crime and that kind of question. This has been an input area. Car wash has been an input for our follow-up authorities in recent years, where we have just stopped, revealed and closed places, as a consequence of getting this done. So to say that you are not active and forward-looking in this context, I would say is a very wrong description of how the work related to work life crime has been done. We also strengthen all the supervisory bodies in this budget in order to be able to follow up new tasks and also to be more intensive in the area of occupational crime. That is why I would like to say that in this area we fully agree on the objective. We're going to have clean and proper conditions, and we're going to use the supervisory authorities and the police to stop illegal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e202	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e207	My question was about an authorisation scheme that the industry has called for – the serious ones. The same applies to the serious aspects of construction and some other sectors that experience mailbox companies and the use of rentals for employment as a general rule, not as an exception. My question is back, again: it is good that supervision is strengthened. They have been weakened in recent years and have had lower capacity, less scope for investigations. But why does not such an authorisation scheme come? Can the Prime Minister have a fundamental counter-representation against what she has against the ILO conventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e214	I have no objection in principle to an authorisation system. I do not know as of today exactly where the discussion and questions about that authorisation system lie, so we will get back with a better answer to the representative. But what was the charge in the post from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre was that the government does not take this seriously, is not forward-looking, that we are passive. I want to be clear on this: labour crime has been a high priority. We have a separate action plan with follow-up measures. We are working to ensure that the obstacles we see in the interaction between the various levels are built down by solving the information that is silent, so that they can work better together. We've strengthened it, we've made new laws, and we're working internationally to combat work-life crime at all levels. Crime should be treated as it is – crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e219	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e224	I want to take this further to the thematic context of work-indifference. There's a close link between order in the world of work, those who are covered by it, and those who are not, and the path of inequality. This 2025 report that came showed that those who are now the most vulnerable in the world of work in the Korona crisis are those with the most vulnerable links, those with the worst rights there. We had the SIFO report, which showed that a group of us are about to get hung up on, hit financially. The Korona crisis is exacerbating inequality. And one telling sign of this is that what's happening now with the daily allowance for those who have had the lowest rates, and that the bulk of the population got checked out during the coronary crisis, is that they're going back to 62.4 pst. from 1 January. It is also the date on which the cuts in the property tax, as proposed by the government, enter into force. Both of them increase differences in Norway. The wealthiest get tax cuts at the top, while the most vulnerable are going to be in a difficult situation. Does the Prime Minister understand that people can see it as unfair?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e229	I think people will experience it as very fair if their job is still there. The changes we make in the taxes on wealth on working capital are there to ensure that businesses also cope with a difficult crisis. It is important to remember that taxes on working capital in these days are taxes on empty hotel beds, there are taxes on boats in circulation, there are taxes on industries that go for half machine. And I understand that the Workers' Party believes it's not that important, so we can tax their owners more. That's why they've also been against us taking away the machine tax for companies, which have been important in a lot of district municipalities, and ensuring that you don't have to pay property taxes on the machines you produce with. That's why you're opposed to making a relief in property taxes, even though we're now taxing activity and assets that can't be used because there's too little activity in Norway, or we're making sure it's more expensive to start new businesses. I think people feel that work is the most important thing, and we're doing this to get more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e234	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e239	The problem and this debate will not be addressed now – all this is not documented. This is the occupation of the Right. Cutting down on taxes on wealth is the most important measure, it is supposed to be ageing down in society. My point is that what people see is that in parallel with this trickle-down theory, which has been tested in other countries, which does not work in Norway, which increases the differences, the most vulnerable in the labour market are those who have the worst income, those who are going after with purchasing power. The scale of the Norwegian team is getting bigger, and it makes us less prepared for the big changes we're going to go through, and the crisis we're in. My point is that it's perceived as unfair. Differences are increasing, and we are less equipped to meet challenges in the future. This is going to be a central theme in the future. «Working capital» is a concept that has been invented and which legitimises that the largest cuts come to them with share income. So those who have money in the bank, pensioners, have non-working capital and have to pay taxes on it, while those with the largest stock assets are on it. It's unfair, it increases the differences, and it weakens the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e248	As late as 2016, the Workers' Party also believed that working capital could be defined and that a discount on working capital should be applied. One of the things we've done in recent years is to make sure that owning property has become less profitable and more profitable to put money into active work to create jobs in Norway. We have done those shifts within the property tax. I understand that the Workers' Party no longer believes what they did in 2016 about working capital. I'm a little surprised at that. So it's not like I believe in a trickle down effect. I just believe that we have to do a lot to make it possible for those who have difficulties in Norway and have a marginal relationship with the labour market to get into work. That is why under this government we have been focusing on research and development; we have been focusing on a number of measures to help increase the competence of people. That's why we have a reform of competences – so that people don't go out on date. That is why we work closely with the follow-up of children and young people who do not complete secondary education. We have a policy based on what creates inequality, that is, non-participation in working life, and raises from below and up instead of just overfocusing. The thing about "employment" I think is a kind of strange word to use. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e257	The President must remind us that speaking time is 1 minute. Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e265	I have asked three-four questions. The Prime Minister has a national meeting which has decided that the entire tax should be abolished. We were behind a broad settlement in 2016, but there is a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. That doesn't mean you make a deal with a whole in the tax system, and then at the same time you say that there's an opening because you're going to go against zero in the taxation of those who have the most. I repeat that it is unfair. But I want to go back to where I started, with this plane case. Signals count. Those who are now to invest and invest in Norway – where to establish themselves – should receive clear advice. For my part, it is important to say today that it is not appropriate for me to fly with a company that does not allow employees to organize themselves. I think that's going to be the attitude we have in the Workers' Party, with the members of the Workers' Party, and I see that part of the organized working life has that attitude too. So my last question to the Prime Minister is, what does she mean? She wants to fly with an airline that refuses the workers the obvious right to organise?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e272	No, I am not going to fly with a company that refuses to let the workers organize, just as I have never flown with Ryanair because ten years ago I said it was unacceptable for me to travel with airlines that do not have proper and tidy working conditions for their employees. But that's my private opinion. We as the state have to deal with what laws and rights and what legal basis we have for what becomes the government's and state's attitude to this, but privately it has been my practice for ten years, and I'm still going to have as a practice because I think we should have neat relations. If you are denied a contract of employment, there is a breach of Norwegian law, and then we actually have to pursue it in the courts that are, in order to go through it. So back to the issue of property taxes. That agreement, or the consensus we had, gave the parties the freedom to go further if you wanted it, but also for the Workers' Party to go further, and the Workers' Party has proposed to increase the wealth tax on pensioners and all the other times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e281	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e286	We will continue to have that debate. We are very close to the agreement we had in 2016. That was a wise deal. But I think this was a useful clarification. The Prime Minister has clarified, and I have decided, that it is not appropriate to fly with this company. It's private choices we make, but it sends a signal. I think it's important. It should be confirmed by many who fly in Norway, and this Hungarian leader should take it with him: we do so in Norway. It's Norwegian culture. I would also like to say that the Prime Minister says that if anyone refuses to be organized, there is a breach of Norwegian law. It is also a clear signal to those who have oversight responsibilities, those who have to follow the Norwegian law, that it is being done. There should be a clear signal to this actor coming into Norway, that we do not want it in Norway. That means that he and the company he owns and rules over should think again before they establish themselves here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e293	In this particular area, I fully agree with the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e298	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e303	After that, I became a little uncertain about whether there is really room for supplementary questions, but I'm still trying. At a time of increased uncertainty, work organisation is very important, and the transport industry is very vulnerable. We have just heard examples of aviation. But we also have cabotage traffic on our roads, which is a direct result of the EEA Agreement. The pay and working conditions of truck drivers are constantly being pushed downwards in a very vicious circle. We also have the deregulation of the taxi industry, which the government is going to implement, and which is also pushing the working conditions of the taxi industry. Then we have working conditions for Norwegian seafarers. At a time of just great uncertainty, the government simply chooses to change the scheme and makes it more expensive for shipping companies to hire Norwegian seafarers to Norwegian pay and work conditions. It's a very unfortunate signal at a time when people feel a lot of uncertainty and are busy at their workplaces and being able to have orderly working conditions. Does the Prime Minister see the unfortunate signal it gives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e312	Most jobs in Norway are unsubsidized. A very important future for Norway is that we need more private jobs. Then we have to have more private jobs that contribute to the state budget and that do not have a place on the state budget. One can always discuss the level of compensation to be paid to jobs that are unable to compete with normal international wages, such as: for seafarers. But it's going to be 1.8 billion. kr on this in the budget. That's a big amount we give to the shipping companies to finance and contribute to that we have more Norwegian seafarers. In the long run, it is important that we keep spending and tax levels down in Norway in order to afford to finance some of these schemes. But then these arrangements must not be too large and too much. So there's a slight reduction in this area, but that's a choice you have to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e317	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e322	Last week, the government put forward the state budget, and it is natural to follow up some of the elements from there. Maritime nutrition has significant challenges, not least as a result of the coronary apathy, and I have to say that it is difficult to see the government's contribution to remedy the situation of maritime nutrition. Despite the wording of the Government Platform, which states ‘to facilitate a competitive maritime industry’ and which states ‘to renew the net pay system for seafarers’, the government is thus performing to cut off the net pay system, a system that ensures maritime competence, which ensures recruitment of Norwegian seafarers and which ensures a competitive framework for shipping companies. The shipowner Odfjell, who has previously flagged 20 ships and who has 150 Norwegian seafarers covered by the scheme, stated when the budget was presented that they had to take a new round of action on Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian competence. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Why does the Prime Minister not follow up on his own platform, and what does she think is the government's contribution to the maritime industry in the middle of this corona pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e331	First of all, we're going to continue a very high level of support in the net pay system, but we're going to introduce a ceiling on the highest wages. The current situation is that the higher the salary in this area, and on average every job in the maritime industry is now subsidised by the State budget by NOK 200,000. That's a pretty high level. We've seen in the past that we've had wage increases in addition to what's been the usual wage increases in this industry, and that's enough because you've had room to do that because you have generous and good subsidy schemes. So it's always a question of how much. We have said that we should maintain a net pay system. I believe that with the proposal we have put forward, we maintain a net pay system. We're maintaining a strong net pay-as-you-go system, but we've put a roof on the highest pay-as-you-go for how much of this. Many more industries — and this has been reflected in the discussion earlier today — are now beginning to experience this internationalisation and the challenge of others. How high should the subsidy levels for one industry be per job? It's also a reflection on how we're going to spend public money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e341	At the latest in the review of the current year’s revised budget, the Progress Party was given an opportunity to remove the maximum in the net pay mechanism for the fourth semester 2020. The result was that the Baltic Sea Shipyard in Haugesund flagged a ship from NIS to NOR and secured Norwegian seafarers' jobs. Does not the Prime Minister feel that it is a little awkward that such an important industry as the maritime industry is now experiencing uncertainty in the framework conditions, and that shipping companies are expressing great frustration and uncertainty and alerts that they are perhaps going to take action that will weaken Norwegian seafarers' place in Norwegian labour? Isn't this a little awkward at a time when we've spent a lot of time and resources drawing up tools and measures to strengthen our businesses as a consequence of the coronary apathy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e346	I'm never going to feel bad about treating taxpayers' incomes properly, asking critical questions about whether the schemes are right or not, about where the ceiling goes on how much we're going to subsidize individual industries. This is a pretty high roof. NOK 200000 is paid by the taxpayers for each person under this scheme. There are also employees here who are in competition with the hotel industry and with other parts of the travel industry, where people are with less income and are out of work. It's also a limit on how far we can go. I am in favour of a net pay scheme, but I think we also need to limit how much we can do for each job, also for all the jobs that pay for this scheme today. Norwegian taxpayers pay this money. It's taken away from other people's work, it's taken away from the tax we charge. Then there's the balance between what makes it also important that we sometimes put the brake on a little bit and say that now we're going to have the highest wages, and that we have to have a roof on how much we're subsidizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e355	There will be follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e360	I notice that the Prime Minister is now creating considerable uncertainty for maritime industry, in particular by not answering my first question, namely what is in the budget to strengthen the measures for maritime industry. But I have a new question for the Prime Minister. In the budget, the government tightens the car charges in 2021. Where in the government platform is it? I have noticed Amcar's reaction, for example, which said that for the first time in seven years the government is now proposing a real increase in the one-off charge on the car. The government increases the CO 2 component for both vans and passenger cars, but they may have forgotten to reduce the weight component accordingly. My question to the Prime Minister is, Is it a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e370	Over the years, we have stimulated the introduction of cars with smaller emissions, which have created major challenges for the state budget in terms of lower revenues. At some point, we have to sit down and say that we also have to have something more income from car in Norway, because now we have more than 10 billion. kr lower revenue in the State budget than entered in 2013. So I'm concerned that we're going to weigh the goods that electric cars have, up to the fact that there's a difference in goods that fossilly driven cars have. So we're increasing and phased into the electric cars in this budget a little bit more to get into a more normal situation and a more forward-looking way of taxing. I do not think it is unnatural that we on other cars also increase the CO 2 component a little more to have the difference there, but at the same time do not have so much subsidies for driving through the state budget in relation to how the tax was earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e380	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e385	So now we got a notice that the government has plans to continue tightening up the car charges in the future, and I can only say that there is a complete disagreement between the Advance Party. I thought that the government's policy, at least until recently, was that if you wanted to sharpen the CO 2 component, you should also reduce the weight component accordingly. I notice that the Prime Minister is not going to go into that problem, but I thought that was the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e393	What the government statement says is that we should work on a sustainable car tax system for the future. Sustainable in this context also means providing revenue to the State budget when electric cars have a greater and more dominant role. Then we actually have to see that the charges on the car are going to be a little higher than they have been in the last few years. I think we have to look with open eyes at the fact that the car will also contribute, among other things. by paying road charges, by paying the costs they incur for society. It was in the negotiations on the Granavolden. I look forward to the budget negotiations with the Progress Party. I hear they think the car is the most important thing. I think that all drivers can contribute a little to the level we are now doing when we buy a new car. It is much, much more reasonable to buy a car today than it was in 2013. These are among the things that I think the Norwegian people can tolerate – that the car costs a little bit more in terms of what we do for a better environment, but also that we keep the differences in the charges between zero-emission cars and cars with emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e400	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e405	I have not said that car charges are the most important thing. It's e.g. important for the Progress Party to have something done with the government's proposal to accept 3000 quota refugees. It may be close to asking the Prime Minister the following questions: Will accepting 3000 quota refugees annually contribute to increasing differences in Norway or to reducing differences in Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e410	If we are poor at integration, accepting more quota refugees will mean increasing inequality and greater poverty. If we are good at integration, it could make a positive contribution to Norwegian society. That is why this government has such a big focus on integration policy. That's why we're making an integration reform where we're working a lot harder to get people to work faster. But then we accept quota refugees because in a world of war, catastrophes and other things, we are also going to take care of where one sits in a situation over a long, long time and cannot come back to his homeland. There are then some vulnerable groups who have to be allowed to come elsewhere, and Norway will also take part in that commitment. But the issue of inequality depends on how good we are at integration. There we are good when it comes to descendants. Those with parents who have come to Norway do well in many statistics. We're too bad about parents, so we're reforming it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e416	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e421	Another thing the Progress Party is concerned about, is to get something done with the health cows. We've read as much as we could in the state budget to figure out how it is now with waiting times and health cows, but it's very hard to find. In April, health regions were asked to start stepping up their normal operation. We have repeatedly asked the Minister of Health to get updated figures, but he then refers to the figures he gave the Stortinget back in March/April. It's been over six months. The question to the Prime Minister is: does the government now know what these figures look like, or does it prefer not to be informed of developments in health cows? There are many out there asking about this, all the time many operations, planned interventions, have been postponed as a result of resources being deployed exclusively to deal with the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e428	I'm a little uncertain about what the Health Minister has black Stortinget, which is what the representative points to. There's a change in some areas where the queues are increasing at the moment. Average waiting time rises in some regions and decreases, for example: in Health West in all service areas in the last numbers we have. But we're very clear that right now we don't know well enough how the pandemic works. There are many operations and many controls that have been postponed. That means they haven't got into the system yet. We expect that in the first two reports that come, the figures for waiting time will rise significantly. That's why we've put so much into this state budget to bring down the waiting times. We signal more purchases, tenders and use of private goods. That is why we have increased the growth of activity in hospitals, and we have introduced our own incentives into the state budget for measures that help to reduce health cows. However, with the reporting system now in place, you will not be able to enter the queue if you have not entered the first treatment or the first check, which is why it will now rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e435	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e440	The Prime Minister now referred to purchasing capacity from private individuals. In the revised budget, the Progress Party received a majority of 600 million additional appropriations. kr for that very purpose. Can the Prime Minister tell us how this money has just been used to buy capacity from private individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e445	That money, as far as I remember on the go, is transferred to the specialist health service, pointing out that they are to be used to buy capacity. We're also concerned that we're going to do the same thing in the future. We're going to buy more capacity in private healthcare, and we're going to make sure that we increase capacity and have incentives that public health can also increase more. But they have been transferred with the clear indication that they will be used to buy more capacity privately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e450	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e455	I would like to take up the first part of this role-play on budgetary negotiations that we have now witnessed, that is, on the part of the seafarers. It's very strange to hear the Prime Minister talk about the seafarers and the founding fathers to cut this. One maintains and does not point to the reality, that this is about having Norwegian seafarers, or whether we are going to have foreign seafarers. A talking about this as a cost, when the reality is that this is something a do because it's profitable for our country. Therefore, it is entirely wrong to talk about the level of subsidies. This will give fewer Norwegian seafarers. My question is: is this an expression of a new type of piracy, or is it just the absence of active enterprise policies from the government? What will a achieve for the maritime industry with this cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e464	Let me start by correcting a mistake I said in the previous round about this. That's not $1.8 billion. kr we have proposed in the budget, that is 1.9 billion. NOK – so a little more than what I paid attention to. Still, what we're doing is putting a roof, so that the most highly paid do not get as much compensation as the more common seafarer's wages do. Of course, we should meet all the needs by having arrangements for the state budget. We agree to have a subsidy scheme of this type for the seafarers, for the maritime industry, because we know that having Norwegian seafarers on boats contributes to shore-based competence. It helps us to have a whole in the chain. But here too, we have to ask the same critical questions as we do in other areas of the budget: how much are these schemes going to be on? How high are they going to be? So they're now at $200,000 per employee in the areas that we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e471	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e476	In Norway, we have ensured the national, Norwegian, ownership of our natural resources – to the hydropower, to the forest, to the earth. We have had a national thought: how can we use our natural resources, from fish to forest, to create jobs and values in this country? Now this fall we have seen that thanks to a loophole in the very important concession law, which ensures national ownership, an area of 540,000 decks is sold from Norwegian to German hands. That area is larger than the entire Oslo state. The representative of Trond Helleland from the Right was asked what the Right thought about the weakening of national ownership in this way. The answer to Trond Helleland was that he doesn't think it has so much to say if it's Norwegian or foreign owners – the forest stays in Trøndelag anyway, so it doesn't have much to say if it's Germans or Norwegians who own this forest. This I believe is a completely historyless statement. Think about how important it is that we have secured the ownership of the trunk traps. It has created the industry we see: the power industry and the engineering environment, it's huge environments – we've had ownership of the forest and soil resources that have led to the creation of value and industry for a generation. And one has ensured national control of fishing resources along the coast. I see in the Right Programme that there is the same historyless approach – it should be clear who owns Norwegian nature, who owns Norway. So my question to the Prime Minister is: does the Right Leader and Prime Minister Erna Solberg see it as a problem that it is German or Chinese interests that are increasingly interested in buying Norwegian natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e492	I am very much in favour of active Norwegian ownership in very many areas. At the same time, active forest management is important to us; it is important for the development of the economy in Norway; it is important for what we have of other ringing effects. Then it's good that we also have owners who are active administrators. Whether it is a Norwegian or a German limited liability company, they must deal with Norwegian laws and regulations. This company has been in private hands for very, very many years – the shares that have been transferred. So it hasn't been concessional, as we have it in other areas. This means that the turnover of those shares has been possible. This means, for example: no more privatisation or changes to any of the rules around it. So the German Foundation must have assessed the value and the return a little bit higher than what our appraisers did. We equipped State Forest with a mandate to go in and buy this property. They didn't because the sum went far beyond the cost itself, that is, the rate assessment, at that time. But we have a concession law related to other types of forest property. The most important thing for me is that we manage this forest in a way that gives ringing effects and opportunities. So this was in private ownership, so that's not as much we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e501	When I hear the answer from Prime Minister Erna Solberg, it seems that the Prime Minister is completely indifferent whether it is Chinese, Norwegian or Germans who own Norwegian nature and Norwegian forest resources. In my own hometown, Romedal in the Stange municipality, there was a Chinese billionaire who tried to buy forest resources. Fortunately, he was stopped because of the concession law, which was so clear that he could not do so. The right goes into its programme to wind up concession provisions in all Norwegian forests, and then Chinese people on a large scale can start to buy up Norwegian forest land. Completely untimely! We had a similar round in 2014 about the ownership of the Kongsberg Group. Then Prime Minister Erna Solberg said: ‘I think that the whole debate on unorthodox or Norwegian is a rather foolish debate.’ Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that about who would own the Kongsberg Group. I don't think in any way it was a stupid debate. I think it was a very important debate, just like the debate on who owns Norwegian forests. Does the Prime Minister still believe that the debate on who should own Norway, Norwegian industry and Norwegian forest resources is a foolish debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e513	I think, first of all, I'm going to go through and see if I'm now quoted correctly, or if there was anything after what was said there. We have a state ownership in the Kongsberg Group to ensure that we have control of legislation, at headquarters, at research departments, to ensure that we have activity. I have said that as long as it brings activity and economic development to Norway, it is important. For many large Norwegian companies, foreign owners are important because they contribute to contact with a market outside, they contribute to being part of a larger industrial group that allows you to develop in other ways. Then there are some limitations that come from foreign ownership. We can see that, among other things. in any other company in Kongsberg – not the Kongsberg Group – e.g. that there is now a need to contribute to continuing training in stronger mons, because the foreign owners will probably not invest in the same way as we see Norwegian owners in small and medium-sized enterprises do in continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e520	There will be follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Violence Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e525	I can send a text message to Prime Minister Erna Solberg afterwards with the quote, and she will not spend any time looking for it. She adds ‘to be completely honest’ when she stresses the importance of saying the word ‘bad’. I don't think it was such a very wise statement, because I think it is very important that we guarantee the ownership of the kind of companies that the Kongsberg Group, not least in a time of crisis that we are in now. Ensuring ownership of Norwegian forest, soil and water resources is very wise for a small country like Norway. And then I want to repeat what I started with: the right parliamentary leader believes that it is immaterial. The right-wing programme committee says that they want to abolish the entire concession law: let the market operate freely; it is the same whether it is Chinese, German or Norwegian who owns Norway. Does Prime Minister Erna Solberg think it's the same thing? If we're going to experience a later sale equal to Oslo's area that comes up with e.g. Chinese hands, does the Prime Minister think it's wise, or does she think it's unwise? And if she thinks it's unwise, what will she do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e534	We regulate ownership through several relationships. For example, we regulate. through the Security Act, which allows us to look at strategically important areas. It's modernized so that we can have an instrument related to it. So it's not that we, whoever comes and owns or is going to have strategic ownership in Norway, are going to say yes or no. We have a security law that makes us always consider the security bit, related to transactions and other things. It's something that this government has promoted. It's not like it doesn't matter who owns it. That's why we're in favour of state ownership in a number of large companies in Norway, and the reason why we own between a third and 50 pst. We have a document on this in each magnification period that clearly shows what is the rationale for state ownership. We are committed to stimulating more private ownership in Norway. It's one of the reasons why we've done and do things that one can actually read out of the Center Party's program that they should be in favour of, namely, reducing the tax on working capital and ensuring that we do not discriminate against national Norwegian ownership in favour of foreign ownership. That's part of our basis for saying in the future that it's important that we make changes so that we do not discriminate against Norwegian owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e541	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e546	When Statskog did not reach the purchase of the large forest property, there may be some correlation between the Right and the suspension of price control in 2017. So the prices of forest have increased. It's made selling forest lucrative, and then you sell it to Germany. The Prime Minister has not been able to give us any good answer on how to avoid reselling that sale, for example. to Chinese interests. It's a paradox that if Norway had laid the foundation of the thinking that Right now is doing, to the Footfalls in 1917, then one can imagine what we'd missed out on in Norwegian industry and industrial development. For the Centre Party, Norwegian ownership matters, it is important in terms of our natural resources. Yesterday it became known that the Hurtigruten plans to sell its properties on Svalbard, and then the question is: Does the government base the same type of reasoning here, that it is the same whether it is Norwegian, German or Chinese interests that might buy up that kind of property, because the properties are located where they are, regardless of who owns them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e555	As the representative is very aware, the government has a policy related to Svalbard. We want the state to own up there, to have control of the territory and the activity that we have on Svalbard. That means we've spent a lot of money buying back properties there, and it's still going to be our main strategy that the state wants to be able to own Svalbard, as part of our Svalbard policy. So it's not like it's the same thing who owns it. As I also replied to the party leader in the Center Party, we have implemented a security law. We follow the cooperation on the exchange of information with other European countries on the issue of control and security issues with other countries to refuse, for example. ownership. These are among the things that we have adjusted up and done something in this government to ensure the security policy aspects of this. So this was a sale of shares in a corporation. They were not subject to prior price control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e564	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e569	The forest sales that are now going to German buyers will be written into Norwegian history as the ‘Listhaug sales’. It is a direct consequence of the loss of democratic control in Norway over the prices of forest properties, which Erna Solberg and Sylvi Listhaug deliberately removed. It's a paradox that in the rich oil country of Norway we can't afford to buy our own land, our own land. We are becoming tenants in our own country. This policy is fully conscious of the Right Government. The Labour Party will stop the privatisation and sale of State Forest, and we have a clear and clear message to the government that at least those areas must go to local owners. I have asked Vervik Bollestad if we can stop the sale to limited liability companies, but the Right-Registration refuses. Why will Erna Solberg continue the privatisation of Norwegian nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e577	I would first like to stress that there is no Right-Registration in Norway, at the moment there is a government with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – so that it may be properly referred to by the representative as well. The second thing I want to say is that this is not a direct consequence of the changes we made to the price control issue, because this is not under price control and concession rules, as it has been. I also heard the representative say this to the media yesterday, but that's not true. In general, getting foreign owners of the forest can contribute to getting more capital into the forest industries, which helps us to develop more legs to stand on for the forest industries. This could mean that we can contribute to more and more speed in our biodiesel work, and that there is even more speed in the use of wood in other areas. In that case, it will be positive. So I would wait until I saw how these owners actually deal with the question, with coming up with the doomsday prophecy that this is negative and can't be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e586	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e591	This is a Right-Registration that runs Right-Policy, so we have to call things by their real name. One of the main arguments of the government in the debate on taxes on wealth is that it should be important for ownership, but for the forest it seems that it does not matter whether it should be Norwegian or foreign owners. Fortunately, 100 years ago, Stortinget had just stopped Right-wing policy, when the Right was on the wrong side against Johan Castberg in the debate on our Footfalls. If Trond Helleland had been a representative at the time, he might have said that it doesn't matter if the hydropower is sold to Germany or France, because the foxes are in Norway anyway. Or if Carl I. Hagen had passed, one could say, it doesn't matter if American companies take over the North Sea fields, because they're in Norway anyway. This is a historical mistake, because Castberg and Jens Evensen have helped build this welfare state. Doesn't the Prime Minister see that the Right Government is on wild roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e596	Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that American economies and American companies have contributed a lot to the development of Norwegian oil and gas industries. But there has been a broad and good cooperation between the Labour Party and the Right, as the representative says with a little spit in his mouth when he speaks, to make sure that we have framework conditions where we also get custody, and where we have made sure to build up Norwegian ownership. For example, the system of government direct financial involvement, the establishment of Petoro, was a settlement between the Right and the Workers' Party to ensure national ownership and control – but with competence from the large companies that work many other places. That is why we are working in partnership with foreign owners in many areas, not least to gain access to the technological developments that have contributed to Norway's leadership in the supplier industry, because we started to build on what we have got from others. Should Norway start from scratch without a single contribution from foreign owners and oil business participants, it would have been much worse than it has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e601	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e606	It was a free comment about a co-representative instead, how he is in his mouth, but at least it's a very, very serious matter we're discussing. As we can sum up Prime Minister Erna Solberg, it is only if there are security policy interests that it is important to secure Norwegian natural resources in Norwegian hands. Enterprise policy, how to ensure long-term value creation in Norway, is not essential, it is only if it is safety policy challenging. The centre party fundamentally disagrees with that idea. But it was exactly the same thinking Right had a hundred years ago when they called the concession laws the Panic Laws. They thought it was panicking, and that they needed foreign capital. It would be historyless when Norway is at its wealthiest, giving up ownership of our natural resources. We have a lot of capital. What will the Prime Minister say to all those who are now engaged in creating values of Norwegian natural resources? Is it to have national ownership, an old-fashioned way to think about it? Is it only the market to govern, and as well that there are Chinese as the Nordics who own Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e615	It is not possible, on the basis of the answers I have given, to give the description that the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, just gave. We have an active relationship with how to ensure national ownership. Therefore, we stimulate more private national ownership. That is why we are taking care to deal with the discrimination in the current tax system of Norwegian owners in relation to foreign owners. We have an active Norwegian ownership by owning our technology, owned by large companies that are important infrastructure companies, and which are important enterprises also linked to national resources and ownership. That's why we're because we have a third's statutory veto in several large companies and slightly larger ownership in other companies that are particularly important. So we have a balanced relationship with this. The Security Act can be used against what we experience as challenging ownership of security policy. But we have a large and varied repertoire from this government on how to secure national ownership. At the same time, we are committed to being an attractive country for foreigners to invest in, so that we get to the technology development, the merger and the contribution that makes us reach new markets and get out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e626	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e631	Differences between people in Norway are increasing with this government. The wealthiest pulls away from the rest, and an increasing proportion of the values end up in the pockets of a few. The contrast of most people is growing. This government has the doubtful record of having made sure to create record billionaires and high-ranking children growing up in poverty. But, as this State budget also shows, there is someone who has to finance the tax havens and tax cuts to the richest in this society. Some groups in society have to take the bill, and one of the most outrageous cuts is the government has made in the stoma supply for children who have spent their intestines or urinary tract. For 2020, the government has set a limit, a quota, on how much steam equipment it needs to be equipped with. Now the annual allowances start to be used up, and people themselves have to spend several thousand dollars a month – a right they had before, which is now removed from them. Bettina Lindgren is the director of the Løvemmammen, and one might say that there is an organisation that has arisen because of the petty cuts that the government has been in charge of in this field. On the website she told about her despair and her anger over these petty cuts. Her daughter's got a pretty cool face. Bettina writes: «The plate attached to her thin skin several times a week sits as glued. In order not to be afraid, not to get hurt and not to experience a change of trunks as traumaticly we use a stripper spray. This fixes the glue on the disc so that it does not hurt to tear it off. Soon she will not get any more spray because the quota will be exhausted before the year is over. [[...]] I am so tired of sending messages to busy people at the top with an automatic reply to their e-mail. It's almost bingo if you get more than one automatic answer. [[(...):]] And the answer is most often we have to look at this." What is the Prime Minister's response to Bettina and all the others who are the subject of government cuts in steam equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e649	Let me start by saying that there might be more billionaires now than it was under the red-green government, but the growth in billionaires was greater under the red-green government than it is under this government. And that's actually an example of a lot of things going well in Norwegian business. That must be good. It must be good that we have new companies, new ideas, new things that help us actually have an economy that's going around. So a little bit more positivism, maybe, that Norwegian business has gone well over the years with this government, could be nice. It has the side effect that someone has also made money. On the issue of stoma, I would like to say that it was not a suggestion from the government to make those changes. It was a review that Helfo had, because they thought it was an over-consumption. They made changes to this because they had a higher output than what was supposed to be sufficient for the individual according to professional judgement. We have now followed that, given that we also saw the statements that it obviously seemed that the basis was wrong. That's why Helfo yesterday reversed the changes related to the gel-bit of this, i.e. gnawing granules, where it turns out to be a very big challenge that the roof is set too low. In addition, Helfo now, together with the patient organisations, has a review of the other aspects of the stoma issue to see if they were wrong when they set the ceiling for the year. So we've actually solved this. I hope the representative is happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e656	I noticed that change in running granules, which was posted on TV 2. It made a lot of sense that you can spend the allowance on it, and you have to pay several thousand a month yourself. It is good that the government responds to this and removes the roof of it, but why does one not remove the roof of the rest? Why did it just take hold of what appeared in the media? Only what has ended up on TV 2, it's a take-up. So there has to be a story on TV before the government shows a neighbor of humanity. I can tell the Prime Minister what other things are on the quota list, which make up huge thousands of dollars for those who get hit: 80 stickers in spray, 1,000 plate extenders, 20 dumbbells, 10 belt with fixation, 2 belt for compression, 400 clips and clamps for drainable bag per calendar year. I want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer all these mothers and fathers that this applies, once again, what is the answer? If this option is set, quotas will be raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e666	I replied to this in my previous answer. Helfo is now reviewing all the changes they introduced from 1 January, together with the patient organisations and professionals, to see if the ceilings are too low and, where appropriate, to amend these rules. Then I assume that if it turns out – when you have looked at this together with patient organisations and professionals in this area – that Helfo set the ceiling too low, they will make changes, just as they did in the other area. But it becomes part of the professional review they're going to do. This applies to adhesive strips in spray, plate extenders, stumbs, clips, clamps for emptyable bags – all of this, on which a roof was placed, is one of the things where it is now assessed whether the roof was set too low.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e671	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e676	I am very happy that the Prime Minister has brought all the other things, too, and not just what was on TV 2. The Prime Minister went out on Twitter and said that the proposal that SV put forward yesterday to remove these take and give back the rights that these children have had, not take them from them, not needed, because now the change has already been made. However, much of the equipment is still subject to quota limitation. Another side of this: I have the 2015 letter of allocation, which shows that the government made a proposal for an allocation to Helfo – 1 million. kr to make savings in the field of ‘medical consumables’ more efficient and possible. They have now received the answer, including: by the introduction of an allowance thereon. Can the Storting expect even more cuts in the rights of children with medical challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e685	I think it's right that we always go through and see if our arrangements are good enough, not only if they cover enough, but also if in some areas they don't cover correctly, compared to what it was like before. That Helfo does that, also to look at the possibility of savings where it might not be necessary to have it as before, is right. When, for example, proposed changes in the coliaki area, following a review showing that the food costs related to gluten-free foods were completely different from when the scheme was introduced. Then it's unnatural that you give more deductions than you need to cover that menu. I believe that is to manage taxpayers' money properly. Every time, we come across criticisms that this is unsocial cut. No, it's not unsocial to say that you have to cover the expenses you have, but no more, and that you have to get the equipment you need, but not necessarily more. We have to respect that every penny we take from Norwegian taxpayers is money that they could have used for their own well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e690	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e695	I noticed that one should not get more money than one actually needs. Does the government mean that there is a danger that people who have stomas will over-consume adhesive strips in sprays and plate extenders and get too many stumbiles? It's a strange suspicion. At the same time as one has cut in these types of dishes, one pumped out has tax credits for the richest. So one cuts in the supply of those who need the equipment to go to the do – it's unbelievable. Another group that from November 1st will experience cuts, while at the same time giving tax cuts to the richest, are people on the day-to-day. The government's already made sure that there's no holiday money for the day's money, and that's what's going to happen. Can the Prime Minister now, to all those in e.g. The travel life that is now cut in income, explain why they will experience cutbacks, while the richest in society will get more?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e704	You have to meet your needs. You've gone through and checked if there's been a good enough code. And then we'll fix it if it's wrong. It was not the government that did this, it was a professional review in Helfo that was the basis for the roofs that were set. Helfo has been told that they have to clean this up, and they do so now if it turns out that the professional basis did not fit the actual needs out there. This is how we always make adjustments, but we have to trust that we can also make assessments in Helfo and clean it up when it's done wrong. When it comes to the issue of changes in the day-to-day pay legislation, we believe it is very important that, after a big effort, which we have had through a pandemic, we start to take down some measures and normalize them. Now there are no longer many branches that are directly closed, and it is therefore also right that we make some changes to the day-to-day money legislation, so that we go back to the day-to-day money code that SV thought it was perfectly good to govern when they were in government and there was a crisis, for example. the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e711	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e716	But the crisis isn't over, it's in no way over. We've been subjected to new, tough restrictions in Oslo only lately. In the future, we may have to impose even more stringent restrictions, even more restrictions, which will lead even more – perhaps hundreds of thousands – into a day-to-day need. Not all of them are affected by the crisis. Current bills will still come, household bills and kindergarten bills will continue to come. But here the Prime Minister is reporting these for the crisis – while the most wealthy in society are being hit hard. I want to give the Prime Minister another chance to explain if she looks after herself, for example. someone who works at hotels and is currently on leave: why should it be cut off in their income, while those who already have the most will get even more in this state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e723	Over time, we have to bring down and go back to the normal code we've had. For some groups, we do so in relation to the legislation we have had on day-to-day payments during the financial crisis, the banking crisis and all previous crises, and on which there has been no proposal to make changes until now. We had a state of emergency before, but we have to start going back to the rules that we had at some point. When we make changes for working capital, which I understand is what you set everything up to – soon, in the political debate, you have well funded a couple of hundred billion with a cut of 1.2 billion. kr in the budget – it is to create more jobs. It is to strengthen Norwegian national ownership. We have just had a big discussion about Norwegian national ownership, and then one has to start saying: National ownership is also about private ownership, not just about the country. An important part of what we are going to do in the future is to provide more business start-ups, more jobs and contribute to good framework conditions for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e730	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e736	I notice an increasing enthusiasm here at Stortinget to boycott airlines and remind them that if we had a well-developed train offer, no one in this room had to fly, except on the short-haul network, of course. Three years ago, the Stortinget instructed the Government to report on the climate impact of the submitted budget, but such an overview was lacking in the Solberg government budget, which was presented last week. It's serious. In order to pursue an effective climate policy, we need to know the impact of our policies and the money we spend. On the other hand, with regard to what is contained in the budget, it is stated that the government will not achieve its own emission target for road traffic. The government has promised us that in ten years' time the emissions from traffic on Norwegian roads will be half as large as they were in 1990. But the state budget says that the government will only be able to cut 26 pst. So half of what Solberg promised. Despite this, the government proposes, among other things: cutting the electric car benefits. The government is increasing the traffic insurance fee, so that it is more than NOK 2000 more expensive to own an electric car this year. This will cost Norwegian electric cars a total of 800 million. kr next year. At the same time, the government does not make it more expensive to own fossil cars. How can the Prime Minister be sure that this approach will not adversely affect the sale of electric cars and further lead the government away from its own objective of cutting emissions on Norwegian roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e747	Firstly, I would like to stress that the figures presented in the budget are policy-based figures until the budget comes – not in the budget, but until the budget comes. It's a projection that actually gives a positive view. The gap is smaller. We are closer to achieving the 2020 targets. I have here answered many questions from MDG about not canceling the 2020 targets because we do not reach them, but now it actually seems that we are able to reach them. So some positive messages we sometimes have to send out that there's a lot going on, and that happens fast. Traffic is one of the areas where there's a lot going on. Yes, we are increasing and reintroducing the road tax, but with a lower level, for electric cars. Over time, electric cars must also contribute to Norwegian society in relation to the costs we have, including: on road wear. It's one of the things that this is going to contribute to paying for. At the same time, we are increasing, as the representative Siv Jensen previously recorded, the CO 2 component of the charging system when purchasing fossil cars, so we maintain a distance between the two objectives. I believe that the dynamics we have now will help to achieve our passenger car targets with the tools in 2025. The main focus we need to have in the future in order to achieve our overall transport targets is on utility traffic – stimulating more of the utility traffic into zero-emission solutions. Therefore, it is important that we have the large zero-emission fund in Enova with funds for what is urban utility transport, which is given to electric cars. In addition, we need to work on our hydrogen strategies, alternative forms of energy that can be used at longer distances, and make sure that we organize this better. The Minister for Oil and Energy has, among other things: notified a hydrogen road map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e759	Now I did not ask for a general road map or an overview of the general offers the government has for zero-emission cars. I asked about the climate impact of the new costs that the government imposes on the elbileire. I note that the Prime Minister does not necessarily have a clear answer to this. We know that the electric car market is sensitive to change. There is a higher threshold for buying an electric car because it is unusual, you have to deal with charging stations, and new technology costs. Researchers therefore believe that changes in the electric car advantage should be implemented in a way that is not surprising to people. I would therefore like to be clear on my question: Is the Prime Minister concerned that the sudden introduction of the charges for the elbileire will lead to less cut in emissions on Norwegian roads in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e768	The simple answer to that is no, because this is not a rough introduction. It's been a subject for a long time that we have to do this, that we have to take away some of the electric car benefits over time and gradually, but maintain the difference between the fossil car and the electric car. That's what's crucial. I also believe that Norwegian electric cars will see that with today's system, i.e. with today's amount of electric cars at a lower cost, the need for very strong incentives, which were earlier, a little less, because now you can buy a good car with a good reach and with the same comfort as before. There is no longer much difference between an electric car and a fossil car in driving characteristics, comfort and everything else. It also makes electric cars themselves more competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e775	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kristoffer Robin Haug.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e780	In the Government Platform, the Government has promised to introduce a support scheme to facilitate charging infrastructure for electric cars in its housing laws, joint ventures and garages, which includes 600 000 people in Norway. In Oslo, where the Greens rule together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, there is such an arrangement. It is administered by Enova and has been a great success. However, in the government's last government budget for this period, there is no support mechanism for housing law, although access to cargo at home should be for everyone, including those who live in an apartment and do not have their own drive-up or garage. Is the Prime Minister concerned that the lack of such a system will lead to fewer choice of an electric car over a fossil car in our cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e787	If I'm going to be completely honest, I don't think that's what's the bottleneck. One of the bottlenecks has been that one has not wanted to establish, for example. electric car loading points in law enforcement. It now clears up the mayor by making it a right to set up – so you want to clear some of those bottlenecks. This is a little bit of a big investment. We can't subsidize all things all the time. So everything on the Granavolden platform is not included in this budget, but this government has ambitions to present both a budget next year and a budget over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e794	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e799	On 19 June, Stortinget decided that wind power concessions should be reviewed. Expectations were high both on Haram Island and a number of other places in our country. Then Tina Bru accepts the decision in the draft budget by pointing out that the ministry has now gone through five concessions. The review has gained zero significance in the real world, and shows that the parties behind the decision in June – the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party – have kept people fooled. You can wonder if the June decision was just a diversion. Take, for example: Gismarvik Wind power plant: Initially, it was requested that the turbines should have a maximum height of 130 metres. In the final approved plan, the turbines are 200 metres and this is obviously fine from the department's review. Or Haramsøy, where NVE, while the Progress Party sat with the Council of State, dropped notifying the inhabitants of changes in the concession. Here Bru shows that there were two reports in the local view, and then people must have known that there were changes. And the review says that everything is also nice and great with Haram Island. The June decision meant that only matters which were not finally adopted had to be reviewed. Now we see how short-thinking this too was. Makakaknuten wind power plant got a new owner in 2017 and then applied for a new concession. The day following the application, they were granted a renewed installation concession with a total installed power of 66 MW. Five days later, the NVE approved an extension of power to 99 MW. Such a major change is to trigger a new impact assessment after the law, but it did not. And since the matter has been dealt with, there will be no re-examination of that matter. Does Solberg think that the lack of responsiveness to the local population is correct, and that the ongoing rapture of Norwegian nature can only continue until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e812	The government has provided a big deal on wind power that tightens up the concession rules at the time and on how much change it can be from a given concession to what is actually being built, by having clearer and clearly defined requirements. It's just to satisfy examples that in concessions that have been given in the past, there's too much excitement in what you can experience, that is, the extent of the room for action within the concession given, that it feels like another project from those who are local. Now we're going to deal with that. It is a key message in the big news of wind power that has been presented for the future. However, in the case of concessions granted, and what was adopted before 19 June, the question of whether they were granted on the basis of incorrectness, is that there were errors in the proceedings. It has been reviewed and no procedural errors have been identified. So you might say that the old concessions were not right, and that in today's state you wouldn't have that kind of concession with that kind of condition. But there has been no error in the concession treatment according to the review that has been done. There is therefore no basis for the reorganization of concessions on the basis of procedural errors after the review that has taken place. Then we'd better work on: what is the law for the future? The future regulatory framework must be that there is more predictability of what is said to be yes, what is finally seen is that it is both clearer and clearer, and shorter deadlines and clearer and clearer limitations on how much tension you have to make changes to the project itself within the given concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e821	I think that Solberg’s answer suggests that we are right that the decision on June 19 was a showbread. It was a proposal from these parties to meet the resistance to wind, without a decision that actually had real consequences. It is to lead people behind the light, and it should answer both the Workers' Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party – not to the Red, but to people who are tired of the rage of nature around the country. Then there is a proposal for consideration in the Grand Council of the Progress Party that the development of wind turbines brought before the courts should be stopped until the cases are settled. It's very important for people on Haram Island. They're waiting for the courts to stop the work and look forward to getting an answer to that. Does Prime Minister Solberg think that it is right that expansions should only continue before the courts have said their own thing about the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e829	Where a case has been brought before the courts, it is for the courts to consider whether there is suspensive effect. It would be wrong if we were to try it out or not follow what are the common rules. Most people who bring such a case before the courts to stop activity will ask for a suspensive effect, so that there is no activity until the main negotiations are completed. But the fact that the government would intervene and not do what is actually Norwegian law, that is, let the courts stop it, I would consider it wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e840	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e845	It's the NVE that controls the wind power concession processes. Last year a number of researchers from CICERO saw among other things. closer to this. They believe that NVE’s concession decisions are unpredictable and also poorly transparent, and that it is a little too often stated that the decision is ‘based on an overall assessment’. Rogaland County has demonstrated in a review of all wind power concessions in them that the practice NVE follows in the concession treatment process and in the impact assessment processes is, in their opinion, doubtful in relation to the existing legislation. The question is whether it is true that the Department and the NVE are reviewing the issues that the Stortinget has asked the government to look at or whether the practice should be examined by a more independent body.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e852	The agreement was that the NVE was going to review this when that decision was taken on 19 June. The government has followed up what was agreed on with the parties who made the proposal, at that time. All concessions, both wind power concessions and hydropower concessions, are given after an overall assessment. All the economic activities which are concessional are carried out following an overall assessment because sometimes environmental considerations need to be balanced for nutritional purposes, for the interests of the community, for all those things, for jobs and other things. This is actually the standard way we do it. We're saying here we're trying to agree on which conditions are heavier. The government has said no to some wind power projects related to migratory bird areas because, according to an overall assessment, we have placed more emphasis on environmental concerns than on economic considerations. That's the way it always is when we deal with things.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e859	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e864	I think there are two reasons for the enormous resistance we have seen to wind power expansion in Norway. One is the enormous destruction that we've witnessed. There are damaged open air areas, and there have been very poor and inadequate natural sciences surveys. There have been so poor investigations that we have hardly seen in other major expansions that are not related to wind power. The second is that local democracy has to a large extent been set aside, and local communities feel completely overwhelmed in these wind power cases. I think we have to be honest with that. Would the Prime Minister wish that the processes had been different, when she looked at the enormous popular resistance that is now out there? And why not use the only real tool we have to balance land use, namely the Planning and Building Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e875	We're proposing changes to the concession system, precisely because we see that the way the concessions have been given has not been good enough. I want to add that in addition to what we see here, I have been so long that I remember when the Right was accused by SV that we were too little wind power, because it was so important with more renewable energy, that we were going to increase the bet on it, and that we were not busy building out enough renewable energy related to wind power, among other things. because at that point, we were a little bit more excited about expanding hydropower. I'm just saying that times are changing, and we now see that wind power might have some challenges. Then we have to have a better concession system. The concession system we have proposed in a large-scale announcement that we should tighten up, gives more predictability to the municipalities. You get what you say 'yes', you don't get bigger and more than what you said 'yes' at the time. And that's among the things we're doing because we've just listened to the popular resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e882	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e896	There will be a change in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The change was as follows: Question no. 4, from Helge André Njåstad to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e908	‘The Norwegian Maritime Organisations and the LO, together with, inter alia: The centre party for a number of years required Norway to introduce rules on Norwegian wage and working conditions along the coast of Norway and on Norwegian pedestal. The government has previously rejected this and has shown that this could be illegal under international law. From 1 October of this year, the United Kingdom introduced British minimum wage requirements for all ships operating on British pedestal. Will the government introduce rules to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions along the coast of Norway and on Norwegian soil?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e915	As the representative of Gülsvik is well known, on 21 April this year the Stortinget examined a draft representative from representatives Terje Aasland, Geir Pollestad and Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes to ensure Norwegian wage and working conditions in Norwegian waters and on Norwegian soil. The proposal was to set up a joint committee to propose legislative changes and arrangements to implement Norwegian wage and working conditions for the part of shipping in Norwegian waters and Norwegian seas. The proposal did not receive a majority, but a majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party decided to ask the government to set up a joint selection to assess measures that could strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, ensure Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships and ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping companies. The government set up such a joint maritime selection in August this year. In particular, the selection has been asked to assess two actions: whether the subsidy scheme for the employment of seafarers should be amended whether a requirement for Norwegian wage and working conditions should be imposed in Norwegian waters and Norwegian waters In the past, the parties to the industry have disagreed on the reasonableness of introducing a requirement for Norwegian pay and working conditions. In line with the Stortinget’s request decision, the sample has to assess whether such a requirement will strengthen Norwegian maritime competence, ensure Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships and ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping companies. It also follows from the mandate of the sample that the sample should consider whether comparable requirements have been introduced by other Socket countries. Here it might be relevant to consider the minimum wage requirements applicable in the United Kingdom, as referred to by the representative in his question. The committee will deliver its report by the end of the year. On the government side, we are now awaiting the selection recommendation before deciding on the follow-up to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e937	I thank you for your answer. I notice that the Council of State is very busy referring to the sample and waiting for their recommendations while presenting that the mandate for the sample is item No. 1, to look at the net pay scheme. The net pay scheme has proposed to the government in proposals for government budgets to eliminate in the midst of a serious crisis for Norwegian maritime industry, as it is precisely important to ensure the employment of seafarers and the competitive conditions of Norwegian maritime industry. Why in the world does the government propose to weaken the net pay system in the midst of such a major crisis and while a party sample sits and works?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e944	Firstly, we are not proposing to remove this so-called net pay scheme, or the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers, as it is actually called. We're proposing to put a ceiling on the different arrangements within this scheme, but we're still going to spend 1.9 billion. NOK on it, so this is no way to remove the scheme. It is to limit the growth of public expenditure. We have in the past strengthened this arrangement. Now we see there's a need to put a roof to control the cost increase. But it is to the greatest extent a scheme that will continue to exist, and that large parts of the maritime industry both need today and will be needed for the future when it comes to employing Norwegian seafarers on ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e949	There is, of course, a strong weakening of the system contained in the draft budget, which the government itself calculates will affect approx. 6,500 seafarers. I fully agree with the mariners' organisations, who say that this is a stabbing attack on Norwegian seafarers in the midst of a serious crisis. Back to what was the original question related to Norwegian pay and working conditions. One of the big issues in the discussion of the draft representative to which the Council of State referred was whether the selection should be mandated to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions. Then one refers to development in other countries. One of our most important neighbouring countries with which we share marine areas, the United Kingdom, is precisely demanding pay and working conditions equivalent to their standard. Does the government believe that this is also important for Norway, or does it have a fundamental resistance to making such demands for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e958	In the autumn, the Government shall provide the Stortinget with a major communication on maritime policy. There we could have clarified these conditions and presented the government's view of it. But the Storting asked us to put down a party sample to evaluate it. It is true, as the representative Gülsvik says, that the original proposal wanted a different mandate, but the original proposal did not get a majority in the Stortinget, so now we have set up a party-based selection in line with the decision of the Stortinge. We have to respect that those who are going to do that job are going to make these assessments, and among other things. look at how other countries practice this. They will deliver their proposal to us during the year. We will then ensure that industries affected by this are heard before taking a position on what we are going to do with pay and working conditions in the waters and on the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e970	My question is as follows: «The Socialist Left Party is familiar with plans to merge the Manglerud Police Station and the Stovner Police Station. All relevant Urban Committees have expressed their critical opinion on these plans. The area is in need of close-up police. SV believes that bundling is a development in the wrong direction and will affect the important prevention work the police are targeting young people. What is the rationale for this merger, and in what way will the Council of State ensure that the services provided by the population are maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e977	The social mission of the police is to provide security and trust for the population. Services are one of the means to carry out this important social mission; patrol cars are another. For this reason, it is also important that the police contribute to the design of a good structure in places of employment. The role of the Ministry is to make demands on the quality and response time of the police service. The number of places of employment shall initially be maintained at the level of the day in the coming years. Derogations may be made where there is local support for pooling and a provision on complaints procedures for municipalities affected by the new service structure of the police and officers' seats is laid down. The Municipality of Oslo, at the City Council Department for Labour, Integration and Social Services, sent a letter on 30 June this year to the Police Directorate, where they write that the Municipality of Oslo will not appeal against the decision of the POD to merge the two police stations. It is also the case that the police are constantly developing their own work methodology, and then more and more of the police's tasks are being solved outside the police's own premises. An example of new working methods is ‘on-site police’, such as: carry out tasks previously carried out in the post-office now by the patrol in the field and quickly after an incident. Another example is increased availability of online reviews, which make the public less dependent on visiting a police station. The prevention services of the police also depend on being out among the public by looking at relevant people, environments and problem areas. These developments mean that police offices are increasingly creating good services for the public, but rather how police districts can adapt and dispose of available resources on the basis of constant changes in the crime scene and other relevant local conditions. I therefore do not agree with the representative Petter Eide that a possible new police station will affect the prevention work directed at young people. The missing police station is otherwise not open to the public. Oslo Police District is the smallest geographically sized police district and has provided the shortest response times in the country since 2015. Where other police districts have long distances and geographical conditions that affect response time, Oslo has other challenges. The Oslo Police Commissioner estimates that merging these two police stations will give the police better conditions to deliver good services to the public in this part of the capital. I trust that the Police Directorate will make thorough assessments to ensure an appropriate service structure and a sufficient physical presence, so that the police can do the best possible work in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e996	Thanks for the answer. I have recently met with the management of the Oslo Police Department, and I have asked them quite specifically whether there has been a type of impact assessment that shows the consequences of this merger, of the kind: how will prevention work be changed? What kind of change in working methods will the police introduce? How's the patrol going? What will be the local presence? What kind of costs will this aggregation have? The police officer's response was as follows: No such investigation has been carried out. So there was no written decision-making basis, and they expressed to me that they had not been asked to make anything like this either. My question will then be: Is it not natural to change a police structure for nearly 300,000 people, that there is a concrete and written analysis of the consequences of these changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1003	Whether an assessment is in writing or not, I do not think it is very important. The important thing is that the police and the Police Directorate have a clear view of how the structure should contribute to better services. My clear impression – I have also had a meeting with the police district – is that it has been assessed and that it is not the ‘as ice’ sites that contribute to better services, but a new location and a pooling of resources. Those assessments have, of course, been made. A decision has not been made to merge without going into the depth of what it will lead to. I am confident that both the Oslo police district and the directorate have done so. However, we do not have any formal requirements or reporting requirements related to this. I don't think we need that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1008	I have delivered this case for treatment in Stortinget. I have also asked the management of the Oslo Police Chamber to come to us with an analysis of how these changes will be, so that we can have it with us in our treatment. When the change is so big, I think it's right that we don't just have an assessment, but actually a proper analysis of how those changes are going to be. Since this is a resolution dealing with almost 300,000 inhabitants, I also welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice and the Directorate of Police have been so little concerned with having a political anchor. I just want to repeat that all the concerned city councils throughout the Groruddalen and Oslo Sør, including the members of the government parties, have opposed this change. So I'm kind of baffling about the lack of a political process. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: does she not think it is right that a change of such a character, which also disturbs the population, should be well politically anchored by the parties involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1017	This is anchored in the democratic fora in Oslo, in Oslo City Council. They have taken a decision stating: ‘The decision to close Manglerud and Stovner Police Stations is a decision taken by the Government and the Police Directorate, over which the Municipality of Oslo has no decision-making authority. The Municipality of Oslo assumes that police presence, crime prevention, knowledge and competence will be better and not worse than today’s offer of this co-location.’ So you don't complain about the decision. We have ensured, through the changes that were made, in the light of a police analysis that showed that it was important for the police to have responsibility for structural changes, to include local authorities in this work. So the City Council of Oslo has taken a decision in which, if not actively supported, they do not choose to appeal. Oslo also has good police cooperation, with a police council, which I have the impression is working very well. I'm very sure this is a right decision for Oslo, based on the assessments that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1032	‘Several District Municipalities in Hordaland are from week 42 without agreement on patient travel with Hospital Purchases, Health Bergen HF. The reason is missing agreements, among other things, linked to price. In a non-arranged area, patients must arrange for their own travel and expenses. Specialist Health Services Act § 2-1 a, paragraph 6, states that healthcare professionals have legal responsibility for transport to the health and care services. Does the Council of State mean that putting this responsibility on sick patients is in line with the requirement of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1039	Patients have a statutory right under the Patient and User Rights Act to cover the necessary expenses when the patient has to travel in the context of a healthcare service. Health regions have a legal responsibility to provide transport for research and treatment in healthcare. The legislation assumes that health regions can fulfil their responsibilities on two main principles: either the patient can receive an offer of transport organised and financed by the enterprise, or the patient can arrange for the journey himself and be reimbursed afterwards. Patients who are unable to make use of regular services or who need to have a scheduled transport service for medical reasons are entitled to taxi. Health companies have to a large extent facilitated such transport by contracts with transport providers and then request the journey for the patient. I am concerned that this situation is going to affect patients as much as possible. We cannot get into a situation where patients are prevented from getting to the necessary examination and treatment. I have received information from Health Bergen that they are now working hard to get full contract coverage for their recording area as soon as possible. In areas without agreement, Health Bergen, in dialogue with treatment providers and carriers, has put in place temporary arrangements to ensure some of the most vulnerable patients. This applies in particular to dialysis patients, patients in nursing homes and some patients in mental health protection. In these cases, treatment providers and patients will be informed. The hospitals in the municipalities claim travel as before. For other patients, the general rule is that the patient himself spends the trip by paying for a taxi or getting a receipt for credit. The company has encouraged all taxi companies to facilitate this, and many of the companies have notified that they will establish such a credit scheme for the patients. That's very good. But this is unfortunately up to the individual taxi company and therefore does not apply everywhere. The health-bergen.com website will be continuously updated on the status of the different municipalities, so that everyone can follow the arrangements for which area. I expect Health Bergen to do everything they can to clean up this situation, both to get good temporary solutions and to get a good permanent solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1056	General Helga Arianson says at the NRK today that the health care provider does not fully comply with the requirements of the specialist health service law § 2-1 a. District spokesmen take a strong lead with the health service. They think the missing agreement is going to affect the patients who use it most for transportation. The Health Service Act therefore states that the healthcare provider should provide transport for investigation and treatment, either by providing the service itself or by entering into contracts with others. I believe that the Council of State believes that what Health Bergen is doing now is not a crime, and that instead he indicates that the taxi companies are going to give a credit agreement. I thought it was amazing that when something is so clear in the law, it should be up to the private taxi company to grant credit. It's gonna be untimely. Is it true that the Council of State insists that there is no law-enforcement when a service does not itself provide or enter into an agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1067	As I said in my answer, health regions can fulfill the statutory obligation in two ways, but one way, which is that patients themselves spend and get the money back, is demanding for patients. It is therefore not desirable to have such arrangements, even if it is similar elsewhere in the country, where one does not have agreements. So this isn't unique to Bergen. It is not desirable to be in this situation, but there would also have been a crime against Health Bergen if they had continued agreements with companies – agreements that have expired – without new legal agreements being concluded. So this is a very desperate situation. I share the despair expressed by both the patients and the rapporteurs here. I feel that this is also something Health Bergen thinks is desperate, and that they are now trying to find the best possible temporary solutions for patients. Then one must have good cooperation with the taxi companies and have good credit arrangements, while one works hard to get new agreements that would have solved this problem permanently.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1076	There is something self-contradictory when the Council of State says that there are two ways of complying with the laws, either that one should provide a transport offer or that the patients should arrange it themselves. When one takes option number two, that patients should fix this themselves, the whole legal requirement falls away. Why should a specialist health service law require the health care provider to provide transport, whether it is a whole hippie or not, to have an actual transport offer? The laws say 1), that one can arrange this by making an agreement, or 2), make sure that this is done under their own control. So here I think the Council of State answers very badly and not intelligibly, and I can't understand that what's happening now, with the lack of agreement, is not a lawbreaker according to the Special Health Services Act § 2-1 a.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1083	I've been into this. I feel that none of us want us to be in this situation, and that Health Bergen is doing everything they can to prevent patients from having to go out for these trips. This could happen if the taxi companies give credit in the middle situation we're in now. Fortunately, many companies do, and I hope those companies that don't, also contribute to it, because they know they get this money. And then, hopefully, you'll soon be able to make a new fixed agreement with the carriers that will make you drop it. That means that then all the good forces contribute to this not going beyond the patients. I hope that all the good forces contribute to that, because I feel that this is a common wish. I hope that the taxi companies here do not push patients in front of them in a tendering procedure where they naturally want the highest price, but where they cannot, of course, expect to get a much higher price than everyone else in this area. Unfortunately, there has been a little bit of a case in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1099	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1107	‘Many taxi drivers are concerned about the situation in the industry. Many have experienced permissiveness and dramatic declines in turnover. Several county municipalities express concerns about whether there will be operators left in the market to provide taxi services, including school kissing and patient transportation contracts, when the situation after the covid-19 outbreak is stabilising. Will the Council of State listen to the taxi industry that is in a desperate situation and postpone the planned deregulation of the taxi market by the government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1114	I thank you for the question, and I am very aware that the taxi industry has experienced a significant decline in demand for services as a result of the corona. This results in an impact on the operators in the industry, including taxi drivers. The demand for taxi services has taken up the page in ours, but is not yet back to the level before the outbreak of covid-19. A questionnaire to the county councils conducted by the Ministry of Transport in September confirmed this impression. We are then back to about 60-70 pst. of the level, but there are wide variations in the local development of the demand for taxi services. In the contract market, demand appears to be close to normal, while the fall in demand for individual trips is more marked, i.e. a more pronounced fall in cities and a slightly better situation in District Norway. The questionnaire confirms that there are some licensed drivers, but there seems to be considerable local variation. The time limit for initiating new taxi regulation is set by law and can only be changed by Size. Just in view of the difficult situation of the taxi industry as a result of covid-19, the government in May will make a proposition for the Storting to postpone the launch of the changes in the taxi regulation by four months, i.e. from 1 July to 1 November 2020. In connection with the submission, the government made a thorough assessment of how long a postponement should give for this particular rule change. It was important for the government to help ensure that the taxi offer was not completely confused as a result of the covid-19 outbreak, and that it would be a good taxi offer throughout the country. Postponed entry into force would help reduce the risk of the established operators leaving the market due to the corona and thus contribute to ensuring a certain continuity of supply. The government also stressed that the county councils and the state road authority should be given sufficient time to prepare the necessary arrangements. The Storting proposal showed that a four-month postponement would strike a good balance between the concern of those who want to postpone the legislation and those who want to take effect as soon as possible. It was stressed that the postponement would last for both uncertainty as to how long the measures and the effects of the covid-19 outbreak would be, that a desire to facilitate new actors, and that the amendment to the law adopted by Stortinget, would be implemented as quickly as possible. We've made an assessment, and we think it's right to be in place from 1 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1131	The Council of State said when we debated this quite carefully before the summer vacation, that he would follow the situation closely. What happens now? So now we have a new wave of corona. What happens in other areas? Well, we shut down, we open borders, we apply financial measures, we change the measures, we go directly into the market, we make sure that people can be outsourced for a whole year, the labour market is waiting, we have solutions for ferries, aviation, trains and buses, and they're being continuously evaluated, we're discussing this week, the state goes in with billions of compensation, we're facing a big discussion around aviation. Here we're talking about taking over the realities. What does the Council of State intend to do with the situation the last 14 days before the law enters into force for the taxi market? Because that's not exactly what the Council of State says.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1136	There's no doubt that we all wanted to come back to a fall that would become more and more normal, a fall that turns out to be demanding in some areas. So we've just completed this round to get a picture of how the taxi industry is doing, and we're experiencing a completely different situation this autumn than we had in ours. But we know that there is a disagreement between the government and the representative, Mr Fasterøne, as to whether we should implement this. We thought it was right to make a postponement, not least in the light of the fact that both the state road and county municipalities should have the opportunity to do their work. Now we think they should be ready for this. This is precisely because there is someone who does not want this change, while others want this change to happen as soon as possible. That's why we think it's a wholeness. I will, of course, follow the situation in the time that comes, but I also believe that a carelessness is right in a debated question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1143	That's exactly what's a little bit of a core question. If you agree or disagree with the law, you can discuss it. That's the policy. But what we're talking about now is liberalizing a market where an industry has broken back. That's what's going to happen now, and that's what's going to happen after November 1. It's exacerbating the situation. When the states have an opportunity to introduce the exclusive right model, they themselves say that they have to wait and wait and look at the situation. There are people in the market who say no, they don't want to take sole responsibility, because they're not sure that there's an economy to go into the commitment that they're going to be available 24/7 in the districts. So we can risk the service being lost in a situation where the service should definitely be there. In view of this, what does the Council of State think to do with exclusive rights and the possibilities that the county councils have to adjust?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1150	There are just a lot of good possibilities for states to introduce just the one-rights model where they think it's appropriate. As I also said in the description of the market: Yes, it is a demanding market for the taxi industry, but it is also an improved situation up against what one had in ours. The preliminary figures – there is a great deal of uncertainty about them – show that we are back at a 60-70 p.m. level, and we see that for the contract level, where a contract is entered into, it is almost back to a normal situation. I would say that the most demanding parts are related to the taxi industry today, we see in the cities. Of course, a non-return to a normal level in District Norway, but some of the issues related to precisely this liberalisation have been raised, not least in District Norway. But I can reassure the representative Fasterøne: I'm going to follow this development closely also after 1 November. It'll be my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1162	‘The Government has submitted proposals for alternatives to taximeters at consultation. Whatever the result, the rules will be the same for everyone, so there is nothing to suggest that the changed business concept itself should have any meaning, or that there should be some difference in ‘traditional’ or new way of operating taxis. The introduction of taximeters has been important to ensure that laws have been complied with. Does the Council agree that the withdrawal of taximeters can lead to more fraud in the taxi industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1169	I want to thank you for the question. So I want to say very clearly that this government has no plans to remove the requirements that a taximeter implies and represents. We have sent a proposal to facilitate the use of taximeters or so-called control equipment by the licensees for taxis. The proposal provides for control equipment requirements to be of the utmost importance in terms of the requirements for taximeters. This includes, inter alia: secure pricing for the customer and the ability to oversee that the solutions meet the requirements and are used correctly. The solutions will also facilitate third party reporting to tax authorities, such as the owner’s fiscal relationship for control purposes. In addition, it is proposed to ensure the safety of both customers and drivers. Opening up other control equipment as an alternative to taximeters is expected to contribute to a more well-functioning taxi market, including: reduced barriers to establishment. Of course, it is important that such control equipment contributes to the further development of a serious taxi industry and safety at the right price, as the requirements of taximeters have contributed to over a long period of time. The use of new technologies also opens up in order to contribute to additional safety for both passengers and drivers. It is a goal that all actors in the industry are subject to equal rules. Control equipment requirements must therefore be neutral in competition and not create unintended distortive effects. This means that control equipment can be used in both traditional taxi operations and taxi operations in new business models. The proposal for amendments shall allow the taxi industry to apply technological solutions other than taximeters, but the solutions shall have the same meaning as they do today. The hearing ended on October 2. We have received a 42 hearing response. We're going to go through the recordings that we've heard, and then we're going to follow them up in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1182	The fact that taximeters are a barrier to establishment is a subjugating argument. The Ministry proposes that transaction data from the control equipment be stored in the EEA territory. This may be outside Norway or Scandinavia. Norwegian Eco-Forum strongly warns against this because it can lead to major problems in the control and investigation of financial crime in the Norwegian taxi market. The provisions of the Criminal Procedures Act can be used by the police to obtain accounts and documentation in Norway, but if the material is outside Norway, it can be very difficult to obtain information. There are a number of examples of the rejection of the request after several years of proceedings. Does the Minister really want to make it difficult to control the taxi industry, or does he think that the Norwegian Eco-Forum is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1189	I am concerned that there should be good possibilities to control this industry. This is an important industry, and it is important that they comply with the laws and regulations that we have. The taximeter has been important in this way. But we also see technological developments that give us new opportunities. That's what we're going to look at. I would like to stress that I started my answer with just the requirements of a taximeter. We have no plans to change the requirements of a taximeter, but we're going to look at new technological possibilities and do this in a good way. We work here with both the police and the tax authorities to look at good solutions, and see us good alternative solutions, we'll consider bringing it, because taximeters are just an establishment barrier, which the representative Mossleth points to. We want a healthy and good competition, but of course with good control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1198	What the government wants to welcome is not new technology, but an organization that undermines decent payment and employer responsibility. Practice from other countries shows that drivers are left with less than the minimum wage, and therefore the State of California has banned the model from 1 January 2020. A liberalisation that facilitates black sales, as it becomes difficult to control beyond the borders of Norway, destroys much of the work done after the major tax frauds in Oslo in the past, leading to the introduction of tax incentives. But a serious work life can't compete with cheating. Can the Minister put on the brake and keep the taxi trains and a serious taxi market?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1203	We keep the taximeter as it is today. There is also an alternative, but at some point we will consider whether there are good alternatives to the taximeter. There we work with the police and tax authorities to look at good solutions for that. I want to be sure that the new technology gives us the same control capability and takes the same care as it does today. So I don't think there's any good reason to say that one has to keep the taximeter if there's any good alternative that takes care of the care of which the representative Mossleth is also concerned. So I'm willing to look at new solutions, but I'm also concerned about the concern that Mossleth's representative brings up this time after time. This is an industry that's important, but we also know that it's important that we have good control, and that there's no cheating in this industry, to the least possible extent. It's also important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1213	My question is simply: ‘Why would the Council not target the reform of red tape and efficiency in the higher education sector, as the government in its policy platform advocates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1220	As of the financial year 2015, the government correctly introduced the red tape and efficiency reform, known as the ABE reform, as a permanent part of budgetary work. Technological development and other smart solutions help to improve the efficiency of the state sector, as is the case with other social sectors. The ABE reform is a predictable scheme that I think there's still a lot to get to work smarter with, among other things. through digitisation. When we streamline and save money on it, that means that we can spend that money in other areas, such as: on education and research. With the reform, the government wants not only more efficient use of Community resources but also more space for action to give more to priority areas in the State budget. The reform means that all State activities, through efficiency improvements, return 0,5 pst. of all the operational appropriations allocated to the Community. Although the ABE reform also applies to universities and colleges, they have received significantly more money than they have cut since 2015. Let me quickly review the figures for universities and higher education: the total proceeds of the reform in the period 2015-2020 is about 1.3 billion. kr. In the same period, they have had a net increase of 4.7 billion. kr, i.e. a real growth of 13.8 pst. In other words, the ABE cut has helped to make sectoral priorities, and we see that the UH sector, with such re-prioritisation and new efforts, is coming out very well. The representative Sandberg refers to the Granavolden platform, where the government clearly says it will. ‘Implement the ABE reform, but at the same time assess how it can be better targeted in order to achieve the objectives of red tape and efficiency.’ The government has, among other things: focussed on strengthening state joint actions to support the efficiency of businesses. For example, the universities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø are planned to become payroll and accounting customers of the DFØ during 2021 and 2022. This is an example of measures that help target the effectiveness of drug-reduction efforts from the country. The government has never said that targeting should take the form of detailing sectors on where to cut them. A fundamental principle for the continuation of the reform has been that businesses themselves should decide how to achieve the effectiveness of the reform. I believe that the universities and colleges themselves know the possibilities of their own organisation well, and therefore are best able to see how efficiency is most appropriate. Finally, I would like to remind you once again that the universities and colleges in this country have received significantly more money than they have had to cut through the ABE reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1246	Thank you. I thought it was good for the government in its platform to admit that the ABE reform had not done well enough. But those kinds of concessions are not worth much when they are not followed up in action, and when they are simply countered. I have not forgotten a central Right-wing politician who suggested to the Programme Committee that the cuts should actually be doubled. Then I have also registered that the Council of State, as he is doing now, and several of the government's representatives defend this way of governing by saying that the sector collectively has been allocated more resources. But does the Council of State see that this total is to a large extent made up of funds that are either earmarked or competitive, and that it does not necessarily benefit all the universities, and that it can thus be a kind of governance that can undermine the institutional space for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1253	I am going to give the representative the right idea that we are also steering this sector both through framework agreements and through overall long-term objectives for the sector. In addition, it is that we fund the sector within the framework. Therefore, it is a bit demanding to say that as a government council or future higher education ministers, I should point out where they in that sector, within the framework allocated to them, will be more effective. I have a great deal of respect for the Questionnaire Institute in Stortinget, and that the goal is that I should answer questions, but it is tempting to ask back: Where does the Workers' Party think that it should be more effective? For my part, the Labour Party also says that they want to make the public sector more efficient, but that they want another way of doing it. Then I see no other way to do it than that the council itself, or the government or the Stortinget, should point out where it's going to be cut in different institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1260	I would do it quite differently, namely in practice doing what the Council of State said. He said he is sure that the sector itself knows its challenges best and knows where to streamline. Key actors in the sector, such as the Norwegian Student Organisation, the Research Association and the university's own principals, see that the Council of State will not take over, and they say that they want these cuts to be closed. At a time when administrative support functions are cut to the bone, both students and employees experience that the quality of education and the quality of research are affected. This directly affects nuclear activity. So it is that Norway should build skills in times of crisis, which I know the Council of State is also concerned about. We have a lot of new students. Could the Council consider suspending these ABE cuts, with which the sector is so dissatisfied, to give the total production of knowledge around Norway an additional boost for a demanding period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1269	It is absolutely right that one of the most important ways out of the crisis is to focus on competence and knowledge. That is why we have set up 4 000 new study places, which we propose to continue in the 2021 budget. I know that the Labour Party and the Government agree on this is the right priority. So it's like we've recently got numbers that show that under the corona situation -- and it's basically nothing to enjoy -- there's been a small consumption in this sector of 1.9 billion. kr. So there is no reason to say that the ABE reform should be suspended for a year, when the activity – unfortunately, I would say – has been lower. There has been less travel and fewer seminars, which have saved money in this situation. Then it's worth remembering again that the point of the ABE reform is not to zero the policy. So first we take the money in, and then we distribute it out. The situation for the higher education sector is a percentage growth of 13.8 p.m., or 4.7 billion. kr, since this reform came. It means money from other sectors to universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1281	‘The Narvik Centre provides information, documentation and research on war and conflict issues and is one of seven such centres in Norway. By the end of September, they had a loss of income of NOK 893058. The revenue gap for 2020 seems to be $1,107,951. They have not been compensated for their loss of income and have had to reduce their level of activity because of this. Will the Council of State also provide assistance to the Narvik Centre Foundation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1294	Let me first thank the representative Lyngedal for the opportunity to address the situation of the Peace Centres and the Narvik Centre as a result of the Korona epidemic. They may not be among those who have received the most attention in the situation we are in now. Human rights and tolerance are strong in Norway and are actively promoting peacemaking and interpersonal understanding through education, research and dissemination. The school is a central venue for this, and very many students get this discussion updated by visiting — or from — one of the many peace and human rights centres around Norway. The Narvik Centre is one of several key actors supported by the Ministry of Knowledge. We are responsible for the 22nd of July, but we also grant operating grants to seven peace and human rights centres scattered around Norway. In addition, in recent years, we have provided project support for educational activity by some other actors, and we provide annual substantial sums for professional work to develop educational resources aimed at the entire school sector through, for example, Dembra bet. These centres complement each other and provide the basis for a comprehensive, comprehensive and comprehensive policy of international cooperation in a number of areas. They also do important work in the fight against anti-Semitism, racism, hate disorders, radicalisation and violent extremism. With pandemics and increased political polarization, this work is really more important than ever. The Ministry of Knowledge has recently had dialogue with the seven peace and human rights centres, where they briefed on the activities and how they have dealt with the coronary situation. Over and over, centres have been able to adapt to the situation in a good way. They have developed digital services that they experience a great deal of demand for. It is difficult to conclude on what it will be like for centres throughout the year 2020. They have announced that it is mainly going well financially. There is, however, some difference between centres, and the Narvik Centre is clearly distinct, as it is based to a greater extent on tourist visitor receipts. The starting point for Narvik Centre's operations is the German attack on Narvik in 1940, the fights in North Norway and the subsequent occupation. The Centre organises educational arrangements in the schools of all three Nordic states, as well as horizontal exhibitions and dissemination work for other interested parties. In addition, many of the visits have been linked to the cruise activity in the north, which is now completely stationary. We are aware that the pandemic and the loss of cruise tourism have led to a fall in ticket revenue and shop sales with about 7 500 fewer paying guests by September 2020 compared to 2019. They have notified us of a loss of income of nearly 1 million. kr, as the representative referred to in his statement. At the same time, other actors have also experienced reduced turnover as a result of the pandemic and it will not be possible to fully compensate all. But I want to have further dialogue with the Narvik Centre and the other centres on the consequences of the pandemic, and perhaps come back to the matter in a later budgetary round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1313	I would like to thank you for your answer. There are visitor receipts — the fact that the Narvik Centre is very good at having visitors — that make them get this loss of income, and I have an idea for the Minister on how to compensate it. Narvik War Museum not only sits passively and waits for support. When the Allies reconquered Narvik from the Germans on May 28, 1940, it was Germany's first defeat in World War II. Norway has no record of who participated in the games around Narvik, nor the other matches in Norway in 1940. It is a unique part of Norway’s history, and many have a grandfather who participated in the games in Norway in 1940. Narvik War Museum has applied to create such a register in 2021. It would cost approx. as much as the activity that Korona took in 2020. Will the State Council consider taking the initiative to support this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1318	This is the first time I've heard of that project. It sounds definitely exciting and interesting, and I expect the representative to find a good way to inform both the Council of State and the Department more thoroughly about it. There is definitely something that can be assessed. In general, I think it makes a lot of sense for all actors who are in a stressed situation to look at other ways you can work on, for example. compensating for loss of income but nevertheless keeping an activity. I think that most people want to contribute to meaningful activity first and foremost, so the input of this kind, which is about doing a reasonable activity, of course, we accept and will consider, without me being able to say either yes or no to anything like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1325	The Ministry must be asked to support the registration of those who participated in the Narvik battles, so it is possible to look at it more closely. The battles of Narvik are about to be filmed. It would have been ready by Christmas now if it hadn't been taken by the corona in ours, when the recording was to be done at the right time of year. Then Narvik is Norway's candidate city for the first Alpine World Cup we hope to get to Norway. Both are important for Narvik's investment in travel life. I am proud of the work done in my city, but we have been hit hard by the shutting down of travel activity. As the Council of State was in, there are few cruise boats coming to Narvik now, and there are fewer foreign tourists. The whole of our travel life effort is weakened when our museum has not been eligible for grants. Does the Council of State agree that our beautiful museums are a vital part of a strong travel industry, and that it is important that we ensure that they do not get out of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1334	There is no doubt that for tourism and to be an attractive city, the overall offer in one place is very important. Now I'm going to be very careful to express myself on what is the responsibility of other government councils, but I'm very happy that the Narvik Center has taken a position to be part of the overall offer in a city like Narvik, be with and develop that city in a positive way, and that you turn not only to schools and that sector, but also to visitors. It's not least important if we want to meet many of the goals that we're actually working for at school -- that even more people should get a conscious relationship, quite concretely, to what happened in Narvik, but not least learn more about human rights. It is important to raise that awareness not only among schoolchildren but also among others. I think it's very good that the Narvik Center actually opens up to the audience that way, and I hope they keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1342	‘In a recent study commissioned by the Education Association, only 8 out of 100 schools respond that they have been covered by corona expenditure. At the same time, 62 pst. by those who asked for a budget cut in the next year. In a similar study, kindergartens report high absences and lack of temporary workers. Employees in schools and kindergartens throughout the country have already been overworked for the autumn holidays. What prevents the government from providing the necessary funds now, so that one avoids corona cut in schools and kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1349	I have a lot of understanding that there are a lot of people in schools and kindergartens who are now tired. There have been very challenging times for all of us, but perhaps especially for them. I would like to stress that the local authority sector has already been compensated very strongly. Overall, the municipal sector has now been compensated for around 29 billion. kr. But I think there are a lot of people, both principals, kindergarten managers and others, who feel that that money hasn't come out completely, that they feel they have exactly the same budgets they did originally. Then I would like to stress that the government has always been clear that we want to compensate for the expenditure related to the Korona, but also that there is uncertainty about what the extra costs associated with the coronary apemacy amount to, and that we need to get better figures before we can conclude, both with just how much we are going to compensate for 2020, but also what we are going to add to the budgets for 2021. The representative is probably aware of this, because we have informed it several times, but I am now saying it again: To get an overview, the government has set up a working group together with the KS to identify the consequences of the corona pandemic for the municipal economy. The first interim report is now just around the corner, and it'll be important just to do these calculations that will give us the local government the right thing to do. We have been very clear in many ways that additional costs of infectious diseases should be compensated, and this also applies, for example. temporary costs, which come as a result of high absences because many now have to stay at home with quite mild symptoms. But first of all, we need to figure out what the extra costs are – and have been. Some municipalities have been very nice to keep a good overview of it, and I want to draw up the Oslo municipality as an example of it. Not all municipalities have an equally clear overview, and it is therefore quite demanding to get a good overview of this. But we have warned that, in the light of the assessment of economic conditions, there may also be budget proposals beyond what the government has provided so far. And resources for temporary work, funds for overtime or other in kindergarten and school, which can be seen in the context of the pandemic, are what will be considered in this work. Then I want to say finally that we can keep kindergartens and schools as close to normal operations as possible, is of great importance to all children and young people, and in particular it is crucial for those young people who need help from more services, or who are otherwise extremely vulnerable. I therefore expect municipalities and county councils to do what they can to maintain the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1364	I thank you for your answer. But what the municipalities, the schools and the kindergartens need is not only understanding, they also need money, and the reality out there is that it becomes coronacut. I know that City Council Melby has experience as a city councillor in Oslo and has extensive experience as a municipal politician. She is thus assured that the municipal law is quite strict in this particular area: an obligation to budget for money you have, not money you believe a sheep. The budgets of the municipalities and the counties — and the schools and kindergartens — will now be landed before the government has received all its reports. That's what's serious, that the government doesn't put money on the table, and until now has only had empty promises. The Labour Party has proposed that we put money on the table now. The total bill we can make up later, we need to understand that, but what really prevents the government from also putting any money on the table now, so that one avoids these cuts, which is the reality that you look out in schools and kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1373	The representative Tvedt Solberg, and also more, repeats the point that the government hasn't put any money on the table, but it's proven to be a mistake. The government has granted a total of 29 billion. kr to the municipalities for expenditure so far, and we have also always been clear that we do not think it is enough, but it is an important contribution. Then, in addition to the education sector, we have allocated our own specific funds to bets that we know have been necessary, among other things. focus on home education, where we provided funds in the revised budget for 2020, but where we also provided funds in the state budget that was presented last week. We have also set aside our own pots for the follow-up of vulnerable children. So the claim that the government has not put money on the table is demonstrably wrong, but there is no doubt that the government is going to put more money on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1382	It doesn't help much that you have given the municipalities a little, but not the schools and kindergartens the money they need. So that's not quite right; that's not going to go up. When the Council of State says that there will be a report, and that one will settle a bill, then one will see that there are extra expenses here, but one has not been able to settle that bill, and the reality out there is another. The council said earlier in their reply that the money that was granted had to reach out. It seems that the government believes that the money stops somewhere. Right-wing representatives and municipal minister Astrup have said that municipalities need to take different priorities, i.e. cut into other school and kindergarten measures to take the extra costs with the corona. Now the council itself mentions some specific initiatives that the government has had in connection with the Korona. Is that what the Council of State thinks you should cut? Is there any other quality measure that the Council of State believes schools now have to give up when they do not get the necessary money to cover the additional costs incurred by schools and kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1389	The way we control the local government sector is that we give some framework transfers, and then the municipalities themselves are making priorities for what the money is going to be used for. And then when we've compensated the municipal sector for 29 billion. It's not like we've been fine-tuning just how much we're going to spend on the different sectors. Some sums are earmarked, e.g. money for public transport, but most of the money is actually sums that the municipalities themselves have to dispose of. I think that is also very important, because in general we know that there is a big difference in the municipalities in the kind of expenditure they have, and there is no doubt that there are particularly big differences now in a pandemic. Some have had heavy expenses for temporary workers; others have almost had no illness. Some have spent a lot of time on their elderly institutions, while others have had it elsewhere. It is incredibly important that municipalities have an opportunity to do this priority, and I expect, of course, that everyone who is dedicated to giving children and young people good growth conditions and good education, things to prioritize schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1400	‘The centre party is concerned about the proportion of unqualified teachers in school. There are two national sources for statistics on primary school teachers and one for secondary education, namely statistics by the Central Statistical Office on early childhood and school employees and the Information System of the Primary School. Governments have announced a review of the data base, including: in VG, August 22. How far has the work come, and when can we expect knowledge of the teaching shortage in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1407	I share the representative's concern that not all students are trained by qualified teachers. Teachers who have solid professional skills are of great importance for students to learn more and experience mastering and well-being. The government is concerned that all students should meet qualified teachers of both sexes and with varied backgrounds. We therefore carry out a significant professional and recruitment commitment in both teacher and school. Fortunately, there are more and more who are doing the teaching, and there are several teachers who have sufficient training in the subjects in which they teach, but we are still not in the finish line. Over the last three years, the government has given over 43 million. support for the recruitment of teachers and the qualification of those who work in teaching positions at school without having completed teacher training. In fact, more than 40,000 teachers have been offered further training since 2014. It's very important, but as I said, we're still not in the goal. The government suggests using over 1.6 billion. SEK on continuing training in 2021. This will provide room for about 6,300 further training places, which means that next year we will have even more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. In addition, we will support the guidance of newly-trained teachers with 62 million. kr. We have also introduced education and recruitment grants to enable people with relevant work experience from other parts of their professional life to become teachers. Thus, the government has taken significant steps to increase the number of qualified teachers in primary school. Figures from both the GSI, the primary education information system, and the SSB show that the proportion of qualified teachers is higher this year, despite the fact that these sources have very different numbers. We want, as the representative points out, to get a better understanding of the causes of the inequalities in this teacher's statistics. It's very difficult to run politics if we're unsure of the facts. We need to know how much unqualified teachers we have, so that the measures can be targeted and good. At the initiative of the Ministry of Knowledge, the Directorate of Education and the SSB has carried out a preliminary analysis to investigate possible sources of differences, but they have not yet been fully addressed. So we've given the directorate a separate assignment to figure out why the statistics are giving so different numbers to qualified teachers. The mission is bright and the deadline for the first part of the mission is set for June 2021. I hope that we get some better answers than what we have so far. The purpose is to be able to use the information to make any adjustments with effect from the GSI reporting in 2021. It is normally published in December of the following year. So when we stand here in a decade, I hope we have better numbers than we have now. We have ongoing efforts to get more teachers at school and more teachers with relevant skills, and we are beginning to see the results, but as I said, we are still not on target.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1426	The government boasts of a number of measures taken by the government, but the Central Party believes that some of the measures taken by the government have actually contributed to the strengthening of teaching shortages. When the gap extends from 5 to 24 pst, it's important to clarify what is reality. There may be a lot of reasons, for example: different numbers of teachers and competences, and that the GSI is looking at the planned cabal for employment, while the SSB is taking part in temporary employment throughout the year. The centre party is pleased that we are going to have a unified numerical basis that provides the best possible and most real picture of the situation. Nevertheless, we can say for sure that there are too many unqualified people who meet school students every day. The SSB also has projections that show that by 2040 we can lack a total of 5,800 primary school teachers. Is the Council of State concerned about the number of unqualified and a shortage of teachers in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1433	I think it's important that we take a closer look at the reasons. Some of the reasons we know a little about, for example. that there are different counting times and that there is a difference between counting with hourly teachers or focusing on annual work. I believe that everything should be counted and that it is important that we have everything. But there is no doubt that it has much more to say about the skills of a teacher that students have, for example. in Norwegian for a whole year, even though a random shifter may not have the qualifications needed for a few hours. It's important not just to count the number of teachers, but to count the annual work, so that those who are very much with the students have the skills that are needed. To the representative's question as to whether I am concerned, I would say: Yes, I am, but I also believe that we have the measures needed to avoid a situation where we have a great teaching shortage, and that we are still getting more qualified teachers in Norwegian school. This is a process that unfortunately takes time, but I think we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1440	To the question, or the point, whether we're on the right track: we can discuss that, because it's just a slight improvement, 0.4 pst. Obviously, it's not a kind of improvement you can be satisfied with. We need to initially have an ambition of zero unqualified, and also that you can have temporary workers who have the training required. If the lack of teachers and the situation of teachers and employees who are running faster and faster to follow up all students was serious in 2019, we can only imagine what it is like during the coronary eruption now. The Education Association has conducted a survey of school leaders in its member base and found that only 8 out of 100 schools have been covered by the corona expenditure, and that 62 pst. School leaders have been signaling budget cuts next year. This does not give money to any more qualified teachers or to temporary workers. What promises can government councils give to dubious teachers and school leaders for the time being? Will everything be okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1447	Yes, it is very tempting to say that everything will be fine in the end. I don't think anything is going to happen by itself at least, we have to put down a considerable effort for it. I want to clarify one thing, because it's very easy to focus on this percentage, how much unqualified teachers we have. But I also think it's important to mention numbers, because since 2013, the number of years worked by qualified teachers has increased by 3,700, so we're getting more and more qualified teachers in Norwegian school. But we also get more employees, so you might say that we've managed to keep up, as we've had the strong commitment to further training and teacher training. But we haven't been able to increase the number of qualified enough, because of the strong increase we've had. We've been clear that the schools are going to get the corona expenses covered. Temporary expenditure is one of the things that's being accounted for. It's very important that the municipalities now don't hold back and stick to the temporary expenses that were set up a year ago, but that they actually make sure to put people where there's a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1456	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-14.ana.ud517e1470	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anything require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
