ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e37	The representative of Mr Åsunn Lyngedal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e42	On behalf of Kirsti Leirtrø, Ingarill Olsen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Ruth Grung, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Stein Erik Lauvås and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to reduce the minimum advance for ferry discounts to NOK 1000.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e47	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e52	Red promotes a proposal on child protection for the benefit of children, not private profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e57	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e62	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Solfrid Lerbreck, Freddy André Hövstegård and myself to give people the security back into the system of redundancy payments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that case No. 3 on today's map has not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that the matter be examined. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e101	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be an opportunity to reply to comments from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e108	Let me start by thanking the Committee and the parties at Stortinget for constructive cooperation and for their contribution to the rapid handling of this matter. Since 12 March we have adopted measures in response to the virus outbreak on the Stortinget in seven rounds, including today. In March the world was turned upside down too many. The uncertainty is still great for those who are involved, although we now see that things are starting to go better in many places. But everyday life is and will be different. Fortunately, in Norway we have economic muscles to make it easier for many. In recent months, developments in the Norwegian economy have been more positive than expected, and although both infection rates and the prospects remain uncertain, we see that more people now want to bet and come back to work, and that is also the consequence of this package of measures. But we must not forget that unemployment is still high compared to before the pandemic, and we must prevent it from attaching itself to a high level. The Korona crisis is far from over, but it's over in a new phase. In the future, we need to continue the necessary transformation of the Norwegian economy while managing the effects of the pandemic. The way out of the crisis is about creating more and including more. Our most important task now is to create new jobs and get people back to work. There is a clear focus on the matter we are dealing with today. The wage support scheme should motivate and help companies to take more people back to work, and we are now introducing it for three new months. For those who are not able to take employees back all the time yet, we have to extend the permit scheme to 52 weeks and make sure they get more time. Those who are on leave – those who are waiting to get the job back, those who are in uncertainty – are now going to give us the opportunity to take education and fill in with competence while they wait. This makes them better equipped to face the situation when they return to work. It will also make them better rusted into maybe going into other industries, other jobs, than the ones they left. That's how we create new opportunities for those who are outside today. I think these are good measures, as we propose in Stortinget. I hope that it can contribute to increased optimism, and not least to the fact that more people look at a way back to work. For good reasons, there is a lot of focus on the challenges of travel today, both in the media and in this room. In order to include the various parties in the process of creating a new compensation scheme for this industry, the government has announced that it will present its own proposition on this matter quite soon. Trade fair, conference and event organisers shall be included in this arrangement. We're doing this to be absolutely certain. We do it because we see that there's always a long tail after these kinds of crises, and then it's important that we now go into the phase where we reverse where it's necessary, but also differentiate where we can. However, we are presenting some measures immediately today. We extend and extend the travel conversion scheme, create a new subsidy scheme for the tourism industry in Svalbard and establish a local compensation scheme through the municipalities. I've been talking to a lot of companies lately. Some are already too full of better results than before the crisis. But there are also many who are struggling. Part of business is still in an extremely demanding situation. The aim of government policy is to ensure that as many jobs as possible, which would otherwise be viable, survive the crisis. With this matter we will adopt today, together with the good agreement we have reached with the Progress Party, we will also ensure that we get more activity going in road and maintenance. We ensure that the compensation system for self-employed and freelancers continues well. There are also other good measures, which I am sure the Progress Party will go into, and which are well known from before. The Korona crisis is forcing both innovation and change. But if we handle it well, the crisis can turn out to be a seven-mile step towards a greener and more digitised society, a society where we can create more and include more. Finally, I take up the suggestions that the right hand side is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e133	The representative Mudasar Kapur has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e138	It cannot be repeated too often: the current crisis shows the strength of a society with small differences, high trust between people and close cooperation between the social partners. It has made us better equipped to handle the economic setback. We solve the big problems together and don't leave each one to himself, neither every single business nor every single person. It also makes us better able to get the necessary speed in the economy again, but then we have to take care of these qualities in our social model in a better way than government policy does. Although luckily fewer people are available now, unemployment is unusually high. 200,000 are still registered as jobseekers at Nav, twice as many as before the crisis, and we need 25 years back in time to find a higher unemployment rate. That's why all the unemployed are our greatest challenge now. The outlook in the draft budget shows that the decline in unemployment and the recovery of the economy seems to be slowing down. It'll go too slow. Even with the little speed, many people ask if the government is too optimistic. So it can go even slower. If this goes too slowly, our ability to create value and distribute is weakened. The high unemployment rate must not get stuck. The Corona crisis must not create even greater differences between people. Both this crisis package and the draft budget are insufficient to reduce unemployment quickly enough, correct the injustice of burden-sharing and give predictability to business. But even more wealth tax legislation for the richest of the country is provided for in the draft budget. That is the pattern of this package of measures and of the draft budget for next year. The scheme set up to ensure that apprentices and self-employed persons do not remain on the barside, and that low pay would not be extra hard hit, liquidated now or notified of termination. Over a month after the termination of the business compensation scheme, the compensation is still not in place, and travel life still hovers in uncertainty as to what the scheme will be like for them. This puts workplaces at risk. Before the summer, the Workers' Party left in Innst. 360 S put forward a broad and strong package to ensure health and well-being, increased activity and forward-looking growth – a strong policy to avoid a crisis that is going to get crooked up in society. Here was a lot of good suggestions the government could and should use. We believe that, in the last months of the year, there is still a great need to use fiscal policy actively to combat both unemployment and inequality. In this setting, we propose measures that will lead to a fairer burden-sharing, speeding up wheel movement, speeding down availability and ensuring our shared welfare services in municipalities. There has been a broad consensus on a lot in the package of measures adopted, including this, but not all. For us, it has been essential to give the crisis package a clearer social profile. The country’s closure hit workers with low income and low education hardest. It was therefore necessary to provide better income protection for vulnerable groups, both low-paid, sick or quarantined parents, self-employed and long-term apprentices. Several of these arrangements are now being phased out – too early, in our view. The uncertainty is too high, the number of unemployed is still too many. Other speakers from our side will address these measures, but let me point in particular to the students' vulnerable economic situation as a result of the coronary crisis. It is a political responsibility to prevent the pandemic from creating greater social inequality. Half of the so-called student billion is unused, and the government should enter into dialogue with student organisations as soon as possible to find a solution. We have a proposal on this in the vote that I am now considering, together with the other proposals from the Labour Party. Throughout the crisis management process, the Workers' Party has stressed that it is not necessary for the Community to take on the costs of loss and economic downturn, while the gains, some of them in such crises, end up in private pockets. It is precisely to ensure trust and small economic differences that we not only need a strong safety net that ensures people's income but also make clear demands for companies that receive state support. This is how we face the crisis of solidarity, while stopping the fall in the economy and laying the foundation for faster recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e159	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e164	Then we are in the goal of dealing with crisis package No. 7 and it probably won't be the last one. We see that the estimates in the state budget for 2021 are optimistic about both the development of unemployment and economic growth, but the negotiations went well, and the Progress Party is satisfied with the results. We got more money in place – 400 million. DKK for the potable road project in the counties. We know that the need there is great, and we know that this can help to employ the construction industry. It was important for the Progress Party to do this in a way that ensures that the money went to the road, and therefore it was made a searchable arrangement instead of simply sending the money to the county council. We have extended the compensation scheme for self-employed workers and freelancers out of the year with a compensation rate of 60 pst. So it was travel life. We have made sure to extend the low VAT rate out of the year. It is a bit critical of the government that there has been no further development of a compensation scheme for this industry, when we knew that this industry was going to be in crisis when the harvest came. Here you started too late, and I look forward to getting a case for Stortinget where we can start going into these topics. Aviation is in crisis. That is why it was important for us to extend the exemption for the air passenger fee. When the carriers operating in Norway are in the process of being on the edge of the trip, it is wrong to reintroduce this fee, which should be added to that situation. In the future, it will be important for the Progress Party to ensure competition in aviation. It is important for citizens, and it is important for business. We don't want to go back to a situation where we have monopoly in the air in Norway. We remember what it was like: expensive air tickets that make ordinary people have no opportunity to travel. It becomes an important matter to follow up, and I look forward to the government following this in a good way. In the case of the sovereign bond fund, the feedback from many companies is that there should be more flexibility in the scheme. We've heard that repeatedly. The Progress Party expects the government to do a thorough job of following up what is now adopted in Stortinget to look at the flexibility of the scheme. Finally, I will refer to the travel life organisers and the decision of the Stortinget that has taken: ‘The government is asked to follow the situation, including an assessment of the need to extend the loan and grant scheme and an assessment of further measures in the event of a situation in which many travellers are not satisfied by the failure of the package tour operator.’; If necessary, we will come back to this in connection with the matter of compensation arrangements for travel, because it is important for us that this is followed up in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e186	We are still in a major and major crisis, where many workers, businesses, self-employed people and municipalities around Norway are experiencing major challenges in their everyday lives. Unfortunately, both the government parties and their leading supporting party, the Progress Party, are dragging their feet in providing good compensation schemes, for example, targeted at travel, while being particularly effective in making new proposals for tax increases. In the position we are going to deal with today, the majority of us in the case of tourism, first of all, give a concrete description and an entirely correct recognition of the fact that it hits an industry that is particularly hard hit, and not only travel, but also transport industry and culture, and then there is one last greeting in that section: that the fee should be doubled on 1 January. There is a fee increase that has previously been calculated for approx. One and a half billion. kr, for an industry that a self-writer is particularly hard hit. This is extremely unwise and culminates in the government’s proposal for a State budget, where one must also reintroduce the air passenger charge and impose additional charges on aviation. To the compensation scheme for travel life, which I fully agree will come, but which is currently an empty shell: One says 1 billion. kr, but for those who depend on support, it does not help what numbers you are looking for in a position; it is what concrete support a get, which means something. It's going to happen the same thing as with the broad compensation scheme, where one said one was going to spend 50 billion. kr, and then it's granted so far between 6 billion. and 7 B.C.E. kr. Or it happens as with the seasonal enterprise scheme, as a broad majority of the Stortinget were concerned about getting in place: there comes the government back with a proposal that defines seasonal businesses as businesses that operate primarily outdoors, which, for example, makes the Kvernepollen rudders, which have had a loss of 3 million. kr, has received only NOK 21 000 in support so far, because they are primarily engaged in accommodation activities, although of course tourism and seasonal activities are their activities. Or it'll be like the maintenance arrangement, where you've set 250 million. NOK, but where at present it seems that a person is going to spend only $10 million, because one defines the plan so that, for example, those who have activity in the summer don't get any particular benefit from the plan. Only maintenance out of October is covered. For this reason, targeted action is needed and is actually designed to ensure that workers who are still in a demanding situation are covered by a permit. Cutting back on the support for the lay-offs and the unemployed in this situation is completely wrong. The priority given by the government, with great tax relief to those who have over a million dollars, while a cutter in extra arrangements for the lay-offs, for the unemployed and for the apprentices, is unwise policy. The income assurance scheme for self-employed persons shall be terminated. No, instead we have to go the other way and take care of those who are still in crisis. If you look at the compensation scheme that was established, the broad compensation scheme, you see how crooked it has hit so far. Of those who have received support, it is approx. 2 pst. of the companies that received well over half the amount of the benefit, while the remaining 98 pst. by the companies to be divided by the rest. Many companies have come into the situation that when they see what it is possible to get support, they see that they probably need to spend more money on auditing and accounting than on being able to obtain support, and they give up applying for support at all. We have to show greater liberality to those who are small, and then we have to tighten up on the big ones, by making clearer demands on the beneficiaries, as we do, among other things. propose in the case of aviation. We also need to ensure good activity promotion. There we have made a number of proposals in the past. We have to make sure that we prepare for the maritime industry, that we provide for the municipalities and for activity in the construction industry. Unfortunately, our proposals have been voted on earlier. We will follow that up in our budget for next year. I would like to take up with it the proposals that the Central Party is making.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e205	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e210	When the crisis hit us in March, the government had to make many decisions in a short time and on a limited basis. It was important that all the parties here supported under these measures, and through intensive negotiations here on the house we got a broad deal in place. I'm glad. But then the crisis becomes a sort of normal situation, and for every crisis package we deal with now, we see that the political differences become clearer. On Wednesday we saw a government budget from a civil government where it was more important to cut the wealth tax for the richest of the country than to continue a social day money regime that gives the unemployed a little more time to walk. It's really quite clear that a red-green majority with a strong SV would have met this economic crisis differently, more fair, more climate friendly, than the right government has done. For we would first have thought of those with the lowest wages, of the apprentices and of those with the weakest connection to the labour market when the first crisis packages were to be put in place. We also prioritised this in our debates, and we continue to prioritise it now. Where the government is now phased out the income insurance schemes adopted by the Stortinget in ours, we will continue them – for day-to-day workers, for those receiving redundancy benefits, for apprentices and for self-employed persons. SV will continue the social daily allowances. When the government and the Advance Party now agree to remove these rates, the unemployed and the permit are less likely to leave. The reduction of minimum income requirements and reduced working time requirements for entitlement to daily allowances have ensured that the economy is more permissive and that even those with the lowest income have something to live on in this crisis. If it doesn't continue, I'm afraid the differences will increase further. The labour market is tougher now, and more predictability is needed and not less. The temporary social security scheme for self-employed persons has provided financial predictability for these groups. Nevertheless, the government proposed to remove that scheme, which would have led to self-employed and freelancers in practice being on a nearby bar, without compensation. I'm glad the majority turned around, but it's too low a rate. Major parts of cultural life are still in crisis. Those who deliver stage techniques and other subcontractors to major concerts and events are far from back in normal activity, and then they must continue to receive compensation and emergency measures. The compensation scheme must be continued and must also apply to events planned after 12 March. The government must soon realise that the cultural industry operates is business, there are jobs, and there is value creation. The cultural sector accounts for 13 billion. kr in annual value creation. What is happening now is that the government is helping to erode Norwegian working life and create a more unsafe working life. Let me give you a concrete example: Oslo Kru is a major employer in Norway in the concert and cultural industries. They are based only on employment and not on freedom, with a permanent ground crew of approx. 120 stage technicians in addition to many temporary ones. This is very unusual in that industry. Since March 12, they have had 99 pst. decrease in turnover. From 12 March to 30 September last year, the 10,000 working shifts. This year they've had 150. Their leading competitor is underpaid foreign labour. If Oslo Kru, an established employer, now disappears, it will in practice facilitate social dumping at concerts and festivals organised in Norway for a long time to come. But the government didn't want to save Oslo Kru. Nor has the government wanted to make demands on the business community, which is now receiving state support packages, that the jobs that are there today should be maintained. In industry by industry, we will be able to see permanent employees disappear, and then collect as temporary and hired labour in the long term. The crisis is not over. Travel and culture continue to bleed, municipalities are bleeding, and everything indicates that the differences are now going to increase even faster. So it's a shame we don't have a red-green majority today. With that, I address the SV's proposals, except the proposals No. 37, 38 and 39. We are voting in favour of all the solutions proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e229	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e235	There is no doubt that both we and the rest of the world are in a serious economic crisis that is going to last a long time, although it is unclear how long, and although the activity in the Norwegian economy has taken up from the low point it was at in ours, it will be lower here for a long time. We are already seeing a significant reduction in what is planned for investment from many actors in the future. This is therefore the seventh crisis package that has come so far this year. When it was submitted to Stortinget, there was a package of 6.1 billion. kr. After negotiations, it is now between 6.7 and 6.8 billion. kr. There are important decisions to be taken, both to extend the period of leave to 52 weeks — many are still on leave — and now to have a new period of support to return to work. We extend the compensation scheme for cultural, sporting and voluntary organisers, where, in particular, businesses and cultural actors face a very difficult situation of sport and volunteering. It is essential that this compensation scheme be continued. In this extension, we from the Left both agree and welcome the agreement we have with the Progress Party that we also continue the support scheme for freelancers and self-employed with 60 pst. compensation, but where the curtailment is reduced to 60 p.m., so that those entrusted with the task will retain more of the income they receive. I think it's right to lie at the level where we are now. It is also important that we support public transport further. That's $1.50. In order to maintain the offer in the country, but of course also to compensate for the lack of income of the counties. Then there is also support here for municipalities, municipalities that experience increased infection locally and thus have to provide local measures – which we will also be able to get more of in the future – of 200 million. kr. That's also 500 million. SEK to municipalities that have and have had particularly large expenditure. I'm also happy with the 120 million. kr for industrial development in the districts, where 80 million. kr is targeted directly at travel – travel life that is in a particularly serious, but also uncertain, situation. Summer probably went better than many had expected. Now we are entering a new phase of failure in conferences and the revenue you could expect before Christmas. What winter will look like is hard to say. So here several measures have been announced with a separate compensation scheme. We also extend and extend the conversion system. Travel life is in a situation where you have to compensate for the income you do not receive, but at the same time you have to start preparing for some areas where there may be a necessary change. It is also important here that we have a support scheme specifically for the tourism industry in Svalbard. The continuation of low VAT until the new year is also an aid which has come into agreement with the Progress Party. From the left side, we see no problem in that the air passenger charge is not reintroduced until 1 January. It is not the air passenger charge that is now involved in regulating air traffic, but it is important to get back in at a time when we get out of the crisis that we are in. It has also been important for package tour operators that we have good arrangements. In the spring we got a system in which we gave 20 pst. grants, but 60 pst. loans. Innovation Norway is now going to carry out a new round of allocations, where we are increasing the grant share to 40 pst. There is a significant improvement in the system we introduced in ours, and it is also stated in the proposition that we should come back here with any changes in the ageing process. 400 million. kr to county roads I think all parties are in favour, and I think it's the first time I say from here that a good suggestion from the government has improved. Then I think that future negotiations with the Progress Party will also make good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e254	I would like to thank the colleagues in the Committee for a good work on this package of measures. This is – again – an example of the Committee’s having to work even before the end of the session, in order to be able to take action quickly. And then there is a collection of a lot of measures that the government has also warned and got in place during the summer, which is good that we now get through the Stortinget, and that we get the formal decisions in place. During the summer, I get a bit of time to read more than just the daily newspapers, and when I was home this summer, I also got to read the local community newspapers. Sometimes it's very useful, because then you get a good picture and some examples showing what the big debates in this room and the big trends in the country are going through. There they had created a good report about the local knife factory, which has made sure that people have jobs in Holmedal for generations, and how they at the beginning of the corona era were forced to permit and believed one was forced to quit, and they were in a very critical situation because they had lost their export markets and did not know what they were facing in the future. But during the summer the situation changed altogether, because the situation had stabilized, and the Norwegians had come out on their way, and then you lack a good toll knife to be able to bring you on that trip. So the problem is now rather about getting produced enough. This is one example of someone who's done well. Then it is quite right, as many others in the debate before me have also remembered, that this does not apply to all. We have a travel life that has great challenges, and when a talker with local travel operators, there are many who can remember that many of the Asian bus tourists that have been inside, we knew that disappeared, but no one could have imagined that it happened so quickly. Therefore, it is important that we both come up with measures that will help us get that part of our business through the crisis, and that there is a degree of conversion in several of the packages and measures that both government and growth now come with, because it is also a matter of having to anticipate that 2021 and 2022 and 2023 will not be equal to the season that was in 2018 and 2019. But then we should also remember those who have the most important problems, such as the event industry and other parts of the travel industry, and there is a need for more measures. That's why we're adopting the package that we're now doing. The biggest handle is the extension of the permit to 52 weeks, a grip that the government announced that one would look at the need during the summer, which has also been up and discussed a lot before and during the summer, and where I think one at the right time said that we are now in favour, and then add one up to a new employer's period from 1 January 2021. I think it's a wise move, because then one also makes sure that the companies are forced to sit down and look through what is the right grip to do. Getting it stop, where one actually sits down and looks at what's best, both for it added and for the company, I think is an important and proper grip. Now we are also in agreement with the government's proposal on wage support. That's good, and one gets in place a big package in both the cultural, voluntary and sports sectors. What's important there is that one now starts not only compensating for the loss of activity, but also figuring out what activity we can have and stimulate through this period. That's important, and that's right. So, as many people have done well, there are also good measures to ensure that a person compensates for loss of income in collective terms, and not least that a incentive to change through, for example, the Internet. resources for nutrient development in the districts. Then I'm in agreement with the previous speaker, the representative of Elvesuen, who is well pleased to say that a good package from the government has become even better. Some of the things I'm well pleased with are when we also get funds in place so that we can start the activity associated with the potter projects that are on county roads, where one has also become a few about good grips, with some taxes and tax increases as a result, and that has been necessary in the situation that one is in. So a good package has improved. Then we see that, in general, the opposition is building its proposals today on the proposals that the government party and the Progress Party have put in. So it's a little bit backwards, but basically this shows a connection to that direction, and I think it's good and it's good in the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e275	Seven months have passed since Norway closed down and people, businesses and municipalities across the country turned their heads around in their everyday lives. The Coronapandemy has shown that as a nation we are able to change quickly and promise when needed. At the same time, we must remember that the adverse effects of the pandemic are still small compared to what we can expect unless the world manages to stifle climate change. We must therefore be able to resolve the coronary crisis in a way that does not reinforce the climate and natural crisis, nor does it challenge the confidence of the authorities that we need in society – which we get, among other things. by ensuring that the inequalities are not too great — the trust we need to get to the green shift Norway and the world needs. When people go into uncertain times, it is necessary for a state that can stand steady in the storm and give a handshake to those who need it, so that no one falls outside. In the first phase of the pandemic, political Norway agreed that the state should face those in difficulty. Fortunately, we now see that there was no need for money as much as the first calculations showed. But we don't have to use it as a deposit to now leave the individual to himself. The package currently being adopted does not provide sufficient security. The Green Party is proposing to continue the daily allowance also for those with the lowest income. We are proposing to continue reducing the requirements for the amount of work that must have been lost in order to receive the daily allowance, and we are proposing to continue the scheme for the unemployed from third countries. Unfortunately, these safety networks are taking the majority away today. We can't let the corona virus do permanent damage to the culture either. We therefore propose to continue and strengthen the compensation scheme for cultural events and to continue the compensation scheme for freelancers and self-employed people. A group that has been very vocally treated during the coronary crisis are the students. While others received grants when wages disappeared, corona-based students were offered more loans and thus increased debt burden. It is neither fair nor wise to burden the students who have lost the job, so different from other employees. We therefore propose to convert the corona loans into scholarships. While students in e.g. Denmark and Finland have a safety net if they become unemployed at the end of their education, newly educated people in Norway have no rights whatsoever. The only possibility is social support, and it's only when the account is completely scratched, and the PC, the bike and the guitar have been sold. Get to work! someone might say. It's been a long time since it's been so much easier said than it's done now. For this reason, the Green Party is proposing today to close one of the gaps in the welfare state by introducing the right to daily allowances for newly educated people who become unemployed. While other countries have used crisis packages to promote green conversion, it is striking how the majority in the United Kingdom has a special care for selected industries, such as oil and aircraft. The reintroduction of the air passenger fee has now been negotiated away by the Progress Party. And while the rest of the event industry goes too lye and cold water, the oil fair gets our eyemarked 21 million. NOK, in addition to the more than 40 billion. kr in new risky tax reliefs that this one sector received in ours. It's way too early to cut off aid for companies on the mainland. The NHO is clear that it is the severity of the crisis and the measures taken by an enterprise to prevent infection, which should determine whether the enterprise receives compensation — not the industry to which it belongs. The NHO concludes that a broad compensation mechanism is still needed to maintain the diversity of small and large enterprises and businesses in Norway. I am surprised that the Green Party, as far as I can see, is alone among the parties to propose it. In sum, today we adopt a lost opportunity to show the people that the state is to trust when it's raining. No one knows how the infective force this fall and this winter will be, but right now the arrows are pointing in the wrong direction. Then it's not time to pull in the lifebuoy, at least not for those who have the most difficulty, for this storm we have to ride off together. With that, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e300	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e305	Red has from day one of the Coronapandemics worked for the crisis to meet with a fair policy. In June, we presented our own Corona programme, with a wide range of measures to get people to work, to get inequality and emissions down and to renovate social protection. In this package we continue to ensure that the government ensures more jobs for the Norwegian shipyard and supplier industry, and that the municipalities get far more money than it is added to. It's about the welfare of most people around the country. There's a hurry to do something about the basic unfair policy the government is putting up with. Our priority through the crisis has been to ensure better income for workers, apprentices and people outside the labour market. Like LO, we believe that, in a situation of still high unemployment, we must continue to secure income for all those who are still affected. On the other hand, from 1 November onwards, the government will withdraw a large number of the important improvements made by the majority of the population to adopt in the United Kingdom. Firstly, 17 000 people have received daily allowances this year because the Storting decided to lower the income limit in order to qualify for a daily allowance. The income limit is now increasing again. This would result in a particularly large number of part-time employees being deprived of the possibility of a minimum level of income protection. We're against that. Secondly, after strong pressure from Red, the Stortinget made sure that over 3,200 apprentices got right on social benefits this year. Now, the apprentices who are on leave from 1 November are at risk of getting nothing instead. We're against that, too. Tens of thousands of self-employed and freelancers will have a quarter cut from 1 November before it falls completely away from the new year. It's also red against. We know that thousands of redundancy payments in the future will lose their benefits. As it's called fine in the proposition, they're expected to switch to other types of status. Out of sight, out of mind for this government and the Progress Party. This is in many cases a password for social assistance or what is worse: no protection at all. Red has also fought all the way against the gross injustice of the March decision by the Stortinget Day Money Improvements, not for all those who were already unemployed when the crisis broke out. This has created an a and b layer among the daily allowance recipients, and since March, some 50,000 unemployed people have received far less in cash than all those who were unemployed from March. Red will extend the 80 pst. compensation for income up to 300000 kroner for all the unemployed, and not least we believe that it must be made a permanent part of the daily allowance scheme. Not enough: since this government has removed the holiday supplement from the daily allowance, the hundreds of thousands who have received the daily allowance this year will get a new click next summer. Then many people will stand completely without income, so to speak, when July 2021 comes, when the bills come, the flow will be paid, the rent, the mortgage. Many people will then have no income because the government refuses to give unemployed holiday pay on the day-to-day allowance. Last Friday, the Progress Party made a compromise with the government on the crisis package. So in the agreement, they do nothing for the unemployed on the day-to-day allowance – greet the party for the most, except for the workers who leave or lose the job and their families. In a situation of high unemployment, the government sits quietly and looks at 8,600 people going over the maximum period to receive a daily allowance in the next month. This will lead to considerable uncertainty for many people and increasing poverty. Then, on average, 500 people will lose their daily allowance every week for the next six months. To keep the spirit of hard work through the crisis, we can't ask people who have lost their jobs to pay the highest price. What we're talking about here is actually small money in relation to the billions of tax cuts that the government chooses to give to the richest of the country. While the champagne stoppers sprang into the Holmenkol lock, the bell ticks down gracelessly for the tens of thousands of unemployed. This is where the government and the party of progress must turn. With that, I address our suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e328	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e333	I would once again like to thank the Stortinget for a quick and good treatment of another crisis package. Seven emergency packages have now been submitted and processed since the pandemic hit us and Norway was closed down on 12 March. We have seen over the summer that the fall in the Norwegian economy was less than we feared, and that the recovery has gone faster than we hoped. At the same time, it is important to stress that the crisis is not over. There are still many companies in many industries that are struggling and that are facing an uncertain harvest and winter. An important reason why we've gotten better out of it so far is the good cooperation that's been in the Storting and that's been between government and greatness. But the close cooperation that the government has had with the social partners has also been crucial for us to have been able to quickly identify what means will be right, and also to ensure that these are implemented quickly. We've been using fiscal policy actively, and we're also adding that up to next year. In the first phase, it was important to compensate both workers and companies affected. At the moment we're in, we need to facilitate activity and conversion, and that also adds up to the measures. Before the summer, we got what we called a payroll scheme. It came into place after close cooperation with the social partners. When that scheme was launched, there were 217 000 people who were wholly or partly unemployed or on leave. The statistics we now have show that more than 100,000 people have returned to work from the start of the scheme and until 31 July. In August and September, a further 44 000 people returned. The number of lay-offs has fallen sharply. Two out of three have returned, but unemployment is still too high, and therefore there is still a need for action. In the now adopted proposal, a new round of wage support schemes is launched. This means that companies with a turnover fall can get up to NOK 15 000 per permit they withdraw from their own, in October, November and December. It's our hope that this will help create security for the companies, and that they will take more outlawed ones back. One of the industries that we're all concerned about is travel. I hear the representative Gülsvik says that the travel arrangements are an empty shell. I can assure the representative of Gülsvik and others in the Chamber that the travel arrangements take shape. The Minister of Economic Affairs will lead the work in close cooperation with LO, NHO, Works and SMB Norway. The scheme begins to take shape, and it comes to Stortinget in less than too long. We also have dialogue with the Progress Party on this. Finally, let me refer to the arrangements that have now been implemented for the municipalities. The municipalities have received good compensation throughout the year, and our words that the municipalities should be compensated for the additional costs necessary for the Korona. In a short time, we will also receive the workgroup’s interim report — where KS is represented — which will show the challenges the municipalities have faced this year, and what may be needed for the next year. But in the proposition that is being dealt with today, there are 500 million. which is intended to meet the most severely affected municipalities, which have had outbreaks of infection and which have had to take additional measures because of it. Once again, I would like to extend special thanks to the Progress Party for good cooperation on this proposition. It's going to give good results beyond the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e357	In May this year, I asked the Council of State a written question about looking at the arrangements and requirements of the State bond fund, so that several companies could get help. I just have to admit that the answer was a little depressing, but with a little sparkle, a still changing rating requirement from B- to CCC+. The council also said that he had examined all the possibilities. The problem is the same for today’s companies – perhaps even worse, as there are more people who have had to take expensive loans on the market because they have not received access to capital via the SOF. And many viable companies have reduced liquidity and solidity due to the pandemic. Is the Council of State now saying that the intention behind the establishment of the SOF is not well enough in terms of demands and practices, as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e366	It is the People's Security Fund that is responsible for managing that scheme, and their assessment is that it has worked as intended. It was a scheme that came into force very quickly, and it was supposed to contribute to the liquidity of the bond market – and it contributed to it. It is also the case that the bond market has developed more positively than what we feared in the very first period, and it is true that I have contributed to the fact that that scheme has become somewhat more accessible to more people. But as I said, the People's Security Fund's assessment is that that scheme has worked according to purpose. In addition, we have an arrangement that is linked to government-guaranteed loans, where the government guarantees 90 pst. of the loans. We have gradually adjusted and improved that system in line with what we have been able to do under EEA legislation. There is a system that has helped a lot of companies in the demanding situation they are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e375	I thank you for the answer, but I still refer to the plural proposal here today, which the government party will also vote for, and I wonder how the council will fulfill the Storting's will if he is not willing to go into this with new glasses and look at it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e381	Now this council doesn't use glasses, but lenses – and that's a good thing. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Of course, we are following developments in financial markets very closely. The system has been important, and I think it is still important. And it's always the way that a finance minister follows up what the majority of Storting wants, and that means that we will naturally also follow the development of the bond market and also see if there is a need for adjustments. And then it's the People's Security Fund that might make recommendations about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e388	I came to Lofoten on 10 August and met a destination company and several companies. They described that it was like turning off a switch. There were no more orders, and the guests had traveled. The Nordics' holiday was over, and they had traveled home to prepare for school. New travel councils came from the government on August 12, when they knew that there were no guests from Europe. In this situation, 38 pst. NHO members received a zero in compensation from the government. 34 pst. by all travel establishments in Norway, they reply that they are afraid of bankruptcy. When did the Minister of Finance realize that travel life would be without revenues during the autumn and winter 2020/2021, and why is there no clarity in who can get help from the government with fixed expenditure after August?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e395	Both me and the government, and also the opposition in Stortinget, have seen, of course, that travel life is one of the industries that has been hit hardest and that continue to be affected by travel restrictions and severe infection protection measures. That's why we've had a series of different tools that have been targeted at the travel industry, but also at other industries. The compensation scheme, which we quickly put in place, has helped 34,000 companies. We reduced the employer’s fee by four percentage points for two months, which has also benefited many companies. Conversion packages and government-guaranteed loans have also been important. Now we have a good dialogue with the social partners about the device of the travel system. It takes shape and comes to Stortinget in less than too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e400	The council said in its statement a little about the compensation to travel life. The special feature of the situation now is that the government has announced a compensation scheme within a framework of 1 billion. kr, but no details of device or delimitation are given. There are conversations with the parties, but it's urgent. We know that it's not just the traditional travel life that's in a mess. Trade fair organisers, the event industry and a number of actors also now need to be helped to cope with this crisis. The government has notified a compensation scheme within a framework of 1 billion. kr. When can the Storting expect us to have a decision-making basis? For the purpose of determining the size, both the device and the level of this compensation scheme are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e405	It's true that we've suggested a frame of 1 billion. NOK for the scheme, but we will take a final decision on that sum when we see the whole of the scheme. We are concerned that travel businesses that will be able to cope with the crisis and that will eventually, hopefully, get a market, also get help. At the same time, we need to facilitate activity within the frameworks that exist, and also contribute to change. For this pandemic is going to change our habits permanently. This means that we also need to facilitate the conversion of businesses so that they can develop new services and find new markets, but we need to set up travel businesses. I have good faith in the arrangement we are now working on, and I hope we can put it ahead for Stortinget as soon as possible. But it's the Minister of Business who's in the driver's seat for it, so she almost has to clarify when we can wait it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e410	The position says something that the majority, that is, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have written – that travel life is a particularly hard hit nourishment with the background of the coronary eruption and what happened on 12 March. Therefore, the majority chooses to extend a VAT rate of 6 pst. out of the year – a VAT rate that the majority of the population, with the Centrette in the head, managed to push in place in the negotiations in spring. I had a meeting yesterday with the Røros hotels, which was very worried about the situation. They talked about all the workplaces in their region that are related to travel life. We know that travel life nationally has approx. 170,000 annual works if you count on the ringing effects, so it's a huge industry, and they're in the middle of a crisis. Why will not the government, and the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, continue a VAT rate of 6 pst. with effect from 1 January, but do the charging investment double in the middle of a crisis that is now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e417	There has been a discussion between the Centre Party and the bulk of the population on VAT for several years. The centre party wants that VAT to be lower than that desired by the majority. Then we've had a temporary reduction. I believe it has been right to have a temporary reduction, but not a permanent reduction. It is also a question of which instruments work best. The government is very clear that we are going to set up the travel industry, so that's not what this is about. The question is whether the low rate of VAT is the right instrument. Low rate of VAT is an instrument that applies to very many industries, not only to travel and those that are particularly hard hit now. We have more faith that we should have targeted schemes aimed at, among other things. Travel life, and I have great faith in the arrangement that will eventually come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e422	It is true, as Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner says, that the Central Party has over time been critical of increased VAT rates, i.e. first from eight to ten and then from ten to twelve. We've been the only party that has been against it, and that's because we believe that travel life has so little margins. It is a very vulnerable industry and an industry that has major ring-effects all over Norway. Of course, in addition to tourism, transport and cultural activities are also affected. All three industries are in the midst of a crisis right now, and profitability is very, very poor. When you talk to the actors, this is a very unbureaucratic and simple system. When I was in a hotel last night at Røros, the margins for that hotel driver were NOK 60 more because it was lower VAT. So it goes straight on the bottom line right away and secures jobs. Usually, the Right has argued that tax can be an effective instrument. Why is it not to have a lower rate of VAT for travel life an effective and unbureaucratic instrument from the Right's point of view, when all those in the industry themselves are so clear that it is the most accurate and the best instrument they can want?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e429	I am pleased that the Central Party also confirms that their view of the low rate of VAT is a general view and not necessarily just in this crisis. That is my point, that when we are in a crisis, we need to discuss which instruments will be the best. Low VAT rates for a period have been correct, but now we want more targeted schemes. Then it is that we have actively used both tax and tax policies in this crisis, both by giving companies the opportunity to defer the payment of taxes and taxes – it has been very important for businesses to be able to have liquidity, and that is perhaps some of the explanation that we have had fewer bankruptcies than would otherwise have been expected – and by reducing the employer’s tax by four percentage points for two months, which has meant far too many businesses across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e436	Through the various crisis packages that have been dealt with in the Storting and also referred to by the Minister of Finance, the government has shown a great deal of reluctance to impose demands on business, on the companies receiving state support schemes, in particular when it comes to limiting executive remuneration, limiting the payment of bonuses and dividends and limiting the disappearance of money to other countries, to tax havens through corporate organisation. This crisis package also contains several proposals in these areas. It is particularly relevant when we talk about both the different organisers and the sub-contractors of the cultural industry, but also the tourism industry, to which the government is currently working on a crisis package. My question to the Minister of Finance is: why is the reluctance to demand what the money is actually being spent on, to make sure that they do not just disappear into increased bonuses, or into tax havens in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e443	Yes, now the main picture is so far that we have seen no major abuse of the arrangements that have been put in place. Something has been, and it's also turned on. There are good control mechanisms in the tax base of the compensation scheme, and there will also be back checks. I fully agree that it is important both to stop abuse and to have measures to prevent the abuse of schemes. At the same time, we have to recognise that there is a balance between how much control and how many demands we are going to make, measured against how important it was to get money out quickly. For companies that lost all income overnight and had expenditure at the same time, it was important to get the schemes in place quickly and get the money out. On a general basis, of course, I agree that it is important to make demands, but there is also a balance between the liquidity of the companies and how finely masked the arrangements should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e451	This is about people's confidence in the fact that these support schemes, which involve quite large transfers from the community to the business community, are actually going to secure jobs and not just eventually end up enriching a few people. We see from the numbers that, among other things, significant dividends have also been paid in the banking sector this year. In the EU, the EU Commission has recommended that countries do not grant State aid to companies linked to tax havens, such as: are tax resident in countries listed on the EU blacklists, which are controlled directly or indirectly by shareholders ashore on blacklists or who share ownership with enterprises ashore on blacklists. What is the European Commission's understanding that they are encouraging this kind of requirement, which the government believes is unnecessary, and that we do not need to make demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e460	What we've done in our arrangements is to have full transparency -- full transparency about who's applying, who's the owner of the company, and how much you get. Our assessment is that that transparency has contributed to the fact that someone has not applied. It helps to make both media searchlights and people's attention related to the arrangements, who gets, and who they are, bigger. On a general basis, I agree with the representative that it is important that we ensure the protection of the Norwegian tax base. Therefore, proposals have been made in the budget for next year to introduce withholding taxes on interest, royalties and some physical resources, precisely to ensure that we avoid that kind of profit shift to low tax countries and aggressive tax planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e467	Targeted compensation schemes sound very good, but can also contribute to the streamlining of business. The companies that have received most of the compensation scheme so far are almost all companies in travel, which the Stortingen now seems to agree to support further. That's very good, because there's a lot of jobs here. But now, when you remove the broad compensation system, it's all the others, i.e., the tail of small and large companies in other sectors, or maybe so original that they're going between chairs, which no longer have a offer of compensation and are on a barbed hill. These are those who have actually made up much of the diversity of business and who may have benefited from this compensation scheme. My question is what the Council of State has done to prevent all these small, rare, original ones — this diversity of businesses is now standing on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e472	There are many schemes, not least through Innovation Norway, which facilitate both entrepreneurs, start-ups and the diversity of Norwegian employment and business. Then we have to admit that the general compensation scheme was correct in the first few months, when Norway was shut down. At the same time, there is also a more supportive system, the less activity you have. Now we're in a second phase, where infectious disease control measures have been reduced or there are fewer measures to prevent infection. This means that more than in the past, the systems need to facilitate activity within the requirements of the disease protection measures. That is why we are now targeting aid more towards those sectors that are struggling more, and that it is also changing more towards contributing to activity, among others. support through culture, leisure and non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e479	It worries me a little bit that the Minister of Finance has the presuppose that the measures for the protection of infection should no longer be so stringent. We're right now in a situation where the city we're in, and there, among other things. The mountains have had to have interventional measures to prevent infection, and we want people to follow them. That means that we can't in any way blame ourselves for the situation that we had in ours, which meant that a lot of companies had to shut down, have stopped. My original question was not just about entrepreneurs, although it might sound a bit like that when I said that the original and funny businesses are the ones that now have no compensation arrangements. But I think it's the diversity of retailing you have in big cities, which now no longer has a system. I'm worried, because I'm afraid that the larger sectors that have managed to organize themselves and reach the government apparatus with their concerns are taken care of, while the wide range of small businesses is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e486	That's a very important point, because there are many who have strong organisations in their back. We have also tried to listen to those who do not have the large organisations, so we have arranged for several schemes, including: through Innovation Norway. But let me just stress that yes, we're going to have, and we're still going to have, strict infection protection measures far into next year, and more stringent where you have major outbreaks. But hopefully we can avoid shutting down all of Norway, as we had to in March, that was my point, and that's why the use of tools has also changed. Neither is it easy to hit absolutely all businesses. What we did before the summer was we took 600 million. kr through the county councils that were to be set up where there had been the greatest challenges, including: linked to the seasonal holdings. And now in this package, there's 200 million. kr to the municipalities where holdings are particularly severely affected by outbreaks of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e495	As of November, people who are unemployed start to fall out of the day-to-day pay system. This will affect thousands of people and their families month by month. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that almost 10,000 can lose the right to a daily allowance during the year, up to 25 000 by June next year. The budget shall read as follows: «Those who were outside the labour market before the Coronapandemic and who are still outside will experience greater competition for fewer job vacancies.» Yes, many now have greater problems getting back to work and are more exposed to long-term leave than before. When the government itself writes that these will be more difficult than before to get back to work, how can the government – together with the Progress Party – defend the removal of the unemployed from the day-to-day arrangements to an increasing extent in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e505	We already announced before the summer that the temporary arrangements would be phased out during the autumn. Now the situation looks less dark than it did before the summer. That means we stick to the plan that was laid down. It is no surprise that there are different views between the Red Party and the Government Parties regarding welfare schemes and day-to-day arrangements in general. We believe that it was absolutely right and necessary to have specific arrangements in the crisis we were in, and there will still be a need for action in the future. This is why we have also added to next year a number of labour market measures aimed at young people and groups facing specific labour market challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e512	The government said here yesterday that everything will be fine. We hope so too, but then we have to pursue a policy that both provides new jobs and ensures the income of those who have lost the job. There are still twice as many unemployed people now as before the crisis. For them, the crisis is in no way over, and as the government itself writes in its draft budget, those who are now available will have greater difficulties than before the pandemic in getting a new job. We know that 500 people on average will lose their daily allowance every week that goes the next six months from November 1. I just want to repeat my question, which was not answered: How can the government defend that these unemployed are thrown out of the day-to-day pay system, when they're trying to get a new job because we're still in a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e519	The arrangements now ending – some in the autumn and some in the New Year – are being phased out in line with what we have announced earlier. I am also concerned about the high unemployment rate. It's still too high. That is the background for today's debate on a new crisis package, which was 6 billion. kr, and where there has been an additional billion during the negotiations with the Progress Party. That is why we put forward a government budget that will contribute to activity, which will contribute to job security, and will help to facilitate the creation of more jobs and include more in the labour market. The crisis is by no means over. That's why we use fiscal policy actively to contribute to activity and more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e526	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e534	Nearly 200,000 people are still out of the labour market over half a year after the coronary apathy. For the Workers' Party, it has been essential that the measures in the crisis packages have a social profile, that the costs are not borne by the community while the benefits are in private pockets. It is important to ensure trust and help to ensure that inequalities do not increase even more than they have done under Erna Solberg's governments. ‘Erna sees you’, it stood on the mouthband Prime Minister trolled up in Stortinget on Wednesday. I'm guessing that all those who have divided the It also includes those who got 1.3 billion with the crisis package in June. kr in an extra discount on the property tax because they own shares. Also, the companies that did not pay two weeks' wages for those who were on leave feel quite well. But the workers that Solberg suggested would lose almost 40 pst. of their income overnight, were they seen? Or those who earned less than 150 000 kroner were apprentices or the job as freelancers and self-employed, so the Prime Minister then the government in March decided that the country should be shut down? The Labour Party could not accept that the government closed its eyes to most people, and fortunately, the Storting had a better view of things than the government. So we see the result in this proposition. The temporary income insurance schemes amount to 16.5 billion. kr. There is a lot of money – money that Erna did not see that people needed when they were sent home in March. Since Erna sees you, her government's New Year's greeting becomes the one that's now available, that you remove the temporary arrangements from New Year's. When it's almost 100 pst. more on Nav's unemployment statistics, the government considers it appropriate to increase the number of job vacancies by 11 pst. It's a disturbing development. The unemployment rate is falling, and the number of young people is increasing by over 11,000 this year only. The working party sees community benefits. We believe it is necessary to extend the temporary income schemes even after New Year's because we see that the corona situation is demanding for people. We give priority to job security and security. To that end, we need the welfare state, and therefore we are proposing to extend the period for those who are now able to lose their daily allowance to the end of the year. It'll cost 220 million. kr. We propose better safeguards for those who are self-employed and freelancers. It also costs over 200 million. kr. We spend a lot more money on labour market measures, so that more people can get help to get back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e549	We're on our way into the dark age, and it can often be nice, but this year I think it's getting darker than it uses to be. The decline of society will continue into 2021, with a significant impact on businesses and employees. Work has estimated that the travel society alone has a turnover drop of 80 to 90 billion in 2020. kr. The hotels are empty, and there are no foreign tourists to experience the amazing northern lights this year. It goes without saying that we want to see bankruptcies and redundancies if not the community now prepare for travel. Despite this situation, the government terminated the compensation scheme for businesses without having an alternative in place for those still heavily affected by infectious diseases. Now, almost a month and a half after the compensation scheme was over, there is still no clarification. Today, we are dealing with a part of this package that does not respond to the most important questions: who can be supported, how much support can they expect to receive, when will it come, where are the measures to facilitate activity in the tourism industry? When we have asked the government about the travel part of the package, they say: The proposition does not include proposals for a specific arrangement or decision to grant the payment, and the government has not suggested that the compensation scheme be dealt with until after we have a more detailed proposal, and then we come to the Stortinget. It was the emperor's new clothes we were presented for on the opera act September 21st. The tailor is not yet finished, and serious business owners and employees can only hope that soon it will be clear what they can say to the bank about its economy this autumn. Why has the government not started work on this crisis package in the past? It was already clear on 12 August, when new travel councils arrived, that this fall was going to be difficult – and so was the winter. The Minister of Finance is wrong. He is wrong when he says that the market will decide, and that we need to see who has enough equity to survive by himself. For travel life is a future industry, and it is an important export industry. All professionally based scenarios of the future suggest that we Nordics themselves and others in Europe will want to travel in Norway when everyone can travel again – to a clean, scattered, populated country with beautiful nature and a good public health system. Then it's to hope that we haven't lost that competence and the values that are in the travel businesses now. It is not as long as it is possible to make money again, and Norway needs new export revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e566	As others have pointed out, this is the seventh crisis package dealt with by Stortinget, following a record-breaking discussion in the Financial Committee. Since March, we have been through a very difficult period for society as a whole – both for individuals and for businesses. Although the recovery has gone faster than we feared, the image is very complex. Some industries have experienced growth, while others have experienced growing difficulties during the autumn. The uncertainty is still great. The crisis is not over. The availability is still too high, although it is greatly reduced. I don't want the freedom to get caught. Therefore, it is important that the measures in force are adjusted as the situation and needs change. We do that in this package of measures. At the same time, it is necessary to proceed with safe measures. Therefore, it is important that the permation scheme be extended to 52 weeks, that the compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers be continued, and that we get a new round of salary subsidies to return to work. It reduces the uncertainty of many families and persons. Those who have been in a difficult situation for a long time, i.e. over half a year, are now getting more security out of the year. Because this is hard for many; it's not hard to understand. I will also bring forward the compensation scheme for sport, culture and volunteering – and the pot of 120 million. kr for industrial development in the districts. That maintained on the road through the 400 million. kr to potable county road projects were put in place, received very well around the country. Here we solve obvious needs while stimulating activity and making use of free capacity in the economy. The continuation of the low VAT rate is also important for the industries in question, the tourism sector, which is still struggling. Most things are uncertain. The likelihood of us facing lasting changes in the economy and high migration needs is high. Creating new jobs is therefore job number one in the future. Having control of the infection is crucial, and we hope and trust that the international vaccine work, where Norway is heavily involved, will succeed and get a breakthrough if not for too long. In the meantime, we have to hold on, we have to keep distance, and we have to stick together. Together, we're going to take our everyday life back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e579	I believe that both those who have lost the job, the companies and the municipalities should be very happy that it is not the government's crisis packages that have been adopted, but that it is Storting's additions that have made it no worse than it has done. But I hear the Council of State now repeat that in our time he had it too busy to ensure that the companies that get financial help were not to quit people. At the same time, he has had a very good time now to put in place the tools to help the cultural and event industries and the travel industry, where the crisis is great, so that people do not lose their jobs. But then it didn't rush so badly. Some of what is the security of everyday life when the crisis strikes are the municipalities. That's where people get help, that's what makes communities go around, but also where the government has failed. It's the Storting that has added to the large sums of the municipal sector. But neither in this crisis package has the government realized that the crisis is now acute in many local governments. They now sit and cut into action for people who have paid the price for the corona handling and the preparedness for infection in the municipalities. Because it has cost money, and it has taken personnel, which means that many have not received the help they need. Now the municipalities need money so that they do not contribute to increased unemployment, either in their own businesses or by putting all maintenance, new buildings, etc. pending, for this is an economic crisis which can also quickly enter the construction industry. In Finland, they are now notifying that they will reduce the intake of apprentices to the next year because the order books are almost empty. There are serious ring-effects that come if one does not ensure that what can be sustained in a crisis, namely the municipal sector and the public sector, is a pillar, ensure that there is security and well-being in everyday life, and that there are ring-fences in the private sector. The government has failed at that. They have also failed some of the municipalities that have been hit hardest, and they need conversion packages now, much faster and much bigger than the government contributes, so that they get more financial support. In addition, the government has proposed a strange, nutrient-oriented system with which the municipalities will operate, i.e. increased bureaucracy in the municipalities, where there should be a difference between municipalities and municipalities in how much help businesses get. This is a violation of the principle that the municipality should be responsible for the protection of infectious diseases, while the country should be responsible for the economic consequences. That principle violates the government, and it does not contribute to non-discrimination or to security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e598	Important parts of the Norwegian economy and working life are now facing a double crisis, due to both oil price falls and an ongoing pandemic. Export-oriented oil and gas, maritime and aviation industries have lost important parts of the market almost overnight. As a representative from Buskerud, it is natural to refer to the business situation in Kongsberg, but there are several places. The industry's feedback is that national crisis packages do not hit the major industrial players well enough, while these industrial locomotives are absolutely necessary to ensure that Norway is at the forefront of the green shift. The Norwegian model, tripartite cooperation, gave us the welfare state by taking us through past crises and challenges, and the tripartite cooperation must now do it again. In this context, it is now very important to support the initiative for the Kongsberg environment for an industrial pilot in order to ensure the necessary transition from Industry 3.0 to Industry 4.0 and to prevent important industrial enterprises and industrial workplaces from disappearing from the country. Such an industrial pilot will not only help to secure current and future jobs in Kongsberg, but also nationally. It is therefore important that the government follow the initiative of Kongsberg’s industrial environment quickly, so that valuable time is not lost. With such a pilot, employees can be employed instead of being permitted or terminated, they can build skills for the future and prevent jobs from being moved out of the country. The Kongsberg environment has all the prerequisites for success. The pilot is pottery. There is already close cooperation between employers and trade unions, municipalities, educational institutions and Nav, but the state must join the team. The importance of the Kongsberg pilot is not least underlined by the fact that the Joint Confederation and Norwegian Industry in the Riksmeklingsmanns protocol of the tariff settlement for 2020 have a joint opinion in which the parties support the Kongsberg initiative and require the Solberg government to respond. The government's answer so far is 10 million. kr on the Ministry of Knowledge’s budget. It's better than nothing, but it has to be followed by more. To the tens of millions, the Kongsberg community has asked in writing all the parties for a joint remark on the importance of the industry itself controlling the use, so that the money hits where they're going. Unfortunately, only the Work party has chosen to include this comment in the setting. I hope it's just a glitch, and that the Council of State can assure that the ten million will be used in this way, and the parties at Kongsberg themselves find it best.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e609	Norway has financial problems. Differences between people are increasing. Last year our country went with a deficit of 277,000 million. kr in trade with the rest of the world when we correct for oil and gas activities. In some municipalities there are 40 pst. of the pre-employment population. This was the normal situation. Then the Korona has come to the top. The warning lights are now shining to us who want us to continue to be a welfare state with confidence in the future for people everywhere in our country. In one of our largest tourist-life municipalities in Norway, Trysil, stands 35 pst. of the working-age population to the normal outside of working life. Now the massive unemployment has come to the top. In this situation, we are told by the Minister of Industry and the Right-wing Government that this is the new normal situation, and that we should start with the transition. I wonder what the government thinks the Trysil business is going to change. It'll probably be a transition to even more free time and outside. The options, in the longer term, are, of course, in getting more forest further processing and more use of the land in Trysil. But there we see in the draft state budget that it is fundamentally failing. It is 50 ears that go to forest-based further processing industry in Norway. Moreover, in a municipality with one of the largest concentrations of wolf in Norway, it is not easy to imagine that large amounts of land-based grazing should be established in the short term. We have to take the situation, in which many people and municipalities now stand, seriously, because it's pretty tough. It is cut down for both municipalities and county councils, which have now over seven years experienced the cuts and division of the right-wing government. You don't really have to realize that this is demanding. We can refer to one of the main characters in Flåklypa, Reodor Felgen. He simply says, ‘It’s a good idea to build a car when it’s the owner’s needle in the wall.’ That's the way it is with the so-called conversion. If people are to have work, we must both support the travel businesses so that they have a future, and in addition, we have to go on with large-scale investments in using the forest as raw materials, for new industrial workplaces in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e622	There are different reasons why businesses are affected by the coronary crisis. Some are affected because demand has disappeared. Others are affected because international economic cycles are destroying demand. Some are affected simply because of the rules that we have put in place by the community and the government. One of these industries is cultural life. It is quite right, as both the government and the majority of the population have stressed in their crisis packages, that there is no objective of saving businesses that in any case do not have the right to life. We are probably seeing in the Korona crisis that some of the changes that had in any case happened – perhaps over a period of five to ten years – are now much faster. In cultural life, it's not like that. People are ready to do a job. The audience wants to be an audience, and there are also no international economic cycles that affect them. On the contrary, everything suggests that in the future we will spend more of our time and our money looking for the products and services that cultural life gives us. Now cultural life is in crisis. The government has been back from day one. The arrangements have been put in place too late, and they have also been incorrectly arranged. It seems that the government and the Ministry of Culture have simply had difficulty understanding how companies in cultural life are organized. In August Raja announced that he would phase out today's compensation scheme and instead come up with an incentive scheme, but the framework for it is not yet in place. When the compensation system comes down, a lot of those in need of our help are hit. For example, when you have: requires events to have been planned before 12 March, cultural life is very poorly known. Not many people have signed contracts on it like this. happens during large Christmas tours, at such an early time. For months, cultural life has been training the government — how it is a great industry that employs many people — exists throughout the country and contributes to value creation and active communities — but has not been listened to. In March, we said in the Workers' Party that we need a broad compensation scheme that helps the entire cultural life. The government then voted against the compensation scheme also covering subcontractors. It's changed, but the help isn't yet good enough. Trondheim Sound, for example, which is a key company in our cultural life, has been operating for 35 years. Now they're just in danger of going over the edge. What is the problem is that the environments of competence, these businesses, can not only re-occur when the crisis is over, even if there is demand for them, and even if it is a future industry. Here, the government has to set up a completely different way to ensure that businesses have the right to life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e637	When the crisis struck the country, it was said that it was an objective that business should get the most unharmed through the crisis. I want to raise two areas in particular where I think we're at risk of not happening. First of all, aviation. It's important for all business in Norway. That people get to and fro is very important in a long country, but aviation is also an industry that, by itself, employs thousands of people both in the air and on the ground. Now we see that there are things that are about to happen, and I mean what is happening, is not good news. First of all, an actor with heavy state aid would like to enter this market. It can only register, but also the airline Wizz Air has now thrown its eyes on the Norwegian market. This is, of course, a cheap company in Europe that has a lot of open aircraft, no trade unions, which need a market at the time they are in, and which sees its average now when Norwegian aviation is down, to enter one of the few partially functioning aviation markets in Europe. There I think the government has been too passive. I note that Erna Solberg’s comment on the day all this happened was to focus on increasing competition on the Norwegian airline network. I think it's a completely wrong approach. Wizz Air will never fly Kristiansund-Oslo. They will never fly Kristiansand–Oslo either. We will not have a proper post-crisis flight offer if we no allow all kinds of ticket companies to enter Norway, fundamentally contrary to what is the Norwegian labour and labour model, that people have the right to organise themselves, and that work in Norway is to be done to the greatest extent possible with Norwegian labour force and with Norwegian pay and working conditions. The government's meeting with aviation is a wall of charges. One can refer to an air passenger charge, an increase in CO 2 tax and a cancellation of the travel tax. That's the government's answer. Another industry that is at risk of lasting damage is the travel operators. Here the Stortinget has taken a decision to cover 80 pst. of its losses over a given period of time, in the form of advances. Now the government comes back and takes the money back, uses it for other purposes, and says that 40 pst. is allowed to hold. This is about who will organise a future trip to Norway. Do we want to have a shortage of businesses all over the country, or do we want to leave that market to major international players? They're ready, and we need a policy so they don't win, so we get through this crisis with the most potential corporations intact.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e657	It is very rare that I do Erna Solberg's words to mine, but today, as an explanation of vote, I have a need to say, 'I wouldn't use exactly those words.' Most of the proposals have very good intentions, and some are very similar to the proposals we ourselves have had, and are also proposals we ourselves have had. But when it turns out that the Stortinget is asking the government to allow, and then there is a lack of funding, we unfortunately have the guts to vote against some of the proposals. The working party will vote for proposal No. 1 and, of course, for all the own proposals, further on for the proposal No. 11-19 and proposal No. 21, by the Centre Party, on the proposal No. 24, 25, 27-29, 32, 33, 35 and 36, from SV, and for the proposal No. 46, 48, 52, 55, 59 and 60, from Red. The loose proposals No. 63, 64, 65 and 66, from the Center Party, are also supported. A small explanation when it comes to proposal No. 20: The working party has previously proposed these improvements for the seasonal companies, among others. in the revised national budget, but voiced by the majority. The majority would not be able to keep the season companies in the old system in a good enough way. Once we have done what we can in negotiations and proposals, and when we are now negotiating a new package for travel, the fight for seasonal businesses must now take place in the next order, as we also underlined in our remarks. In the case of proposal No: 23, on students and income losses: the Labour Party shares the intention to secure the students in the fall as well, and we have earlier suggested it. We believe that our intention did not work after the intention, and therefore believe that our proposal was less detailed, but more precise about finding arrangements for problems the students experienced. Proposal No. Let's say 27 is equal to 27. The working party proposed to extend the provisional daily allowances until 31 March in the perennial debate. We're concerned that this must be careful and do not depend on vague formulations with large interpretation rooms, so we support this on the basis of the intention of extending the rate, but still think that the question has to be re-evaluated for the spring. Proposal No. 31 and 34 we vote against because we want to extend the time period for those with redundancy funds that need it, and it is those who need to be clarified as jobseekers in such a demanding labour market as we now have. Therefore, we propose to extend for these out of the year. For other groups, it's now natural to return to normal. Of course, if the disease situation changes to make health care or interventions difficult to participate in, the question needs to be re-examined. Then I will ask for the floor again to come up and continue the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e674	«The dream shall live; it shall be a blue day». It could have been the slogan to the Right, but it's the song of our all-loving Viking – right, state councillor – the ruling Norwegian football champion, who was among many clubs that this week got a decisive support to stay on the track. Stavanger's swimming club, which I visited the other day, can also breathe more with my stomach. They fell out earlier, but in the new sports package they came along. This shows that the government and the Storting are listening and adjusting measures to make them more effective. That also shows the crisis package we are now dealing with. After one of our demanding ones, more is going in the right direction now. From June to August, the number of people permitting decreased by 120,000, and this has to continue. Therefore, compensation of employees is now extended this year, so that more enterprises are given the help to help them get more involved in the job. But even though things are better for many and society is slightly more open up, there are many industries that are still struggling, which are limited by strict but necessary measures to prevent infection. The crisis is not over. Travel life is one of the industries that have the greatest challenges. Wenche and GuideThe company in Stavanger Centre usually has 140 guides in turn. They've converted and planned to keep people in work, but without tourists, it's not that easy. For Wenche and others in travel, it is therefore good that the government extends the lower VAT and the conversion system, but it is especially important that we make a targeted scheme for travel life. The organizers who gather the largest crowds, such as fairs and food festivals, are particularly hard hit. There are events that create major ring-effects for society. In the fall, despite MDG’s intrusive resistance, we saved the world’s second largest offshore energy trade fair in the energy capital. That's good, because they're now building up to be one of the largest in the world on renewable energy at sea. Now other open audience events are getting drag help. For this reason, I would recommend all the representatives to visit Gladmat, the largest food festival in the Nordic region. ‘Everything will be fine.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e689	In the case of package travel companies, the government was defeated in the revised national budget. Together with the Center Party and the Advance Party, we received a majority to provide support and not just loans to the tour operators. Why? Well, because they had been sitting and reimbursing trips that people had planned in one since we shut down on March 12th, and lacked a lot of the reimbursement that they had spent on airlines and other hotels. I see that the government is trying to rematch. Where we said you could get up to 80 pst. of the reimbursements covered by this aid scheme, the Government now says: No 40 pst. I'll hold it. 40 pst. does not keep I need to say something about Svalbard. When air traffic shut down and we got the anti-infection measures we got, it became incredibly difficult to operate travel life activities on Svalbard, and it's some of the only Svalbard that lives off after shutting down coal operations on Svalbard. We are today invited to adopt 25 million. kr to Svalbard. I am very happy to do so, but I think it is a pity that we do not know anything about how the access to this money will be for the travel companies at Svalbard. It goes into the range of unpredictable industrial policies we face from the government. I believe that there is reason to ask the government. When the Minister of Finance presented the state budget, he said that the market should decide who will survive. There is reason to ask for clarification as to whether the government believes that when you shut down the markets of certain industries because you want to protect us from the pandemic, only those who have enough equity to live until it opens up, who are going to be with us further. Or, as a community, are we going to set up, so that we can bring these businesses with us when we can travel again – when the Europeans come to us? I think this merges into the sequence of what the government does in many fields: say one thing, do something else. It is known that the crisis is not over at the turn of the year, but the support for the unemployed is still cut by the turn of the year. Can you just get into the open with your arguments and say, no, we've been thinking that those who don't have enough equity will go bankrupt, and then they'll be rebuilding the day the market for travel is back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e700	I then continued to vote on the motion for a resolution to the Labour Party. 51: A fair burden-sharing between employees and employers in the placement scheme is important. Therefore, the normal situation should be 15 days. We are still voting against this because we believe that this should first be discussed with the parties, in line with the Norwegian model and in contrast to the right government did at the beginning of the crisis, and the Red proposes here today. Proposal No. 53 we will vote against. We don't want to extend it just out of the year, but we've proposed March 31. We also want to pass on the compensation rate of the day. For proposal No 40: The Labour Party believes that it is decisive that all sectors, including aviation, have taken action to reduce climate change emissions. Increased use of advanced biofuels is important in this context, but we cannot support the proposal to set this as an absolute requirement for both old and new crisis packages. For proposal No 61: This is $134 million. 2020, and I don't see any means to do this in the settings. That is why we are voting against. For proposal No 62: We have been working on a state order in this matter. That is why we are voting against. The Labour Party will also vote against proposal No. 2, from the government part, because we want 80 pst. compensation performance, not 60 pst., which is their suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e715	I noticed that the representative Agdestein was up in the pulpit instead and said it was important to carry on with accurate measures, and mentioned the concrete tourism tax as an example. Then it's a little hard to see why travel is important for travel life with a VAT rate of 6 pst. in December, while in January it is to be doubled to 12 pst. Is there anyone who sees that this crisis for travel life, and for the others who are subject to the low VAT rate – transport industry, culture – is suddenly going to be over during Christmas, that one has normalized the situation in January? We must ensure both predictability and long-term sustainability for those planning within those industries, in order to provide good framework conditions and ensure as many jobs as possible. It's not just about travel. For example, it is the taxi driver who must be organised as a self-employed person, who, from 1 January, loses the income insurance scheme, who from the same date receives a double VAT rate and who, after all the sun brands, also loses these out of the other compensation schemes. It's unwise for those who are being hit. It is therefore necessary to bring in measures that are effective to all. With regard to compensation schemes, I do not doubt that one is sitting and working with it in the department, but what has been presented to the Stortinget is an empty shell. There's nothing concrete about what kind of support you can wait, and in what kind of situations you can do it. I would definitely recommend the government to listen carefully to those who make recordings, from both the travel industry, the event industry and others, who have given completely concrete, targeted input into how a scheme can be arranged. One must also ensure that it is not limited to a sum of 1 billion. kr. To the representative Stokkebø, who spoke about food festivals and closed events: Yes, it is good that there are people who are cared for, but for the event industry, for artists, for those who run with light and sound, it is equally important whether you have a closed event, or whether it is an open event. The limitations of a layer, cause some to be preserved, others not. It also applies to food festivals. A food festival that has not been cancelled, but which has been tried and done in the best possible way, as an example from Trøndelag, does not come under the aid scheme as it has been set up. So we have to have targeted measures. The proposed new aid scheme is intended to go to municipalities, showing precisely this unforeseeableness to which the municipalities are confronted when one says that the municipalities should have co-financing. No, municipalities must have full cost coverage in all areas. Instead, a system should be in place that goes directly to the companies affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e726	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e743	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e749	There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e759	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Before the Storting starts today's voting, the President will first bring up a proposal that was excluded from voting on Tuesday, October 6, 2020 by an incubation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e773	That applies to proposal No. 30, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make publicly available the professional basis for new infection protection measures before being advertised.’ The proposal is at this point. The Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e790	The size of the store then goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e802	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environment Party publisher No 2, from Mudasar Kapur on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting in December 2020 with a case on the assessment of the continuation of grants by cancellation of leave in 2021.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e927	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e937	The decision will be taken a second time at a later meeting in Stortinget. Proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposals to the Act amending the Temporary Act on Compensation for Self-Employed Workers and Volunteers who have lost their income as a result of an outbreak of covid-19 I In temporary law 12 June 2020 No. 62 on compensation benefits for self-employed and freelancers who have lost their income as a result of an outbreak of covid-19 are amended as follows: The first sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: The compensation is provided by 60 per cent of the basis limited up to 6 G. Section 4 is replaced by the following: Income as self-employed persons and freelancers during the social welfare period is deducted from the benefit by 60 per cent. Paragraph 13, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The law shall be repealed on 1 January 2021. II The Act shall enter into force on 1 November 2020.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e975	Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e989	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e1010	A total of 63 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-9, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Labour Party proposed no. 10–21 and 61–66, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposed no. 22–36 and 40–42, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 43 and 44, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Orphaned No 45–60, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e1031	Proposal No. 45, 49 and 51, from Red. Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3681	Proposal No. 49 sounds: «The government is asked to change the terms of the daily allowance, so that the daily allowance will not be paid until the amount of work exceeds 80 pst. of normal working hours.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: «The government requests the increase in the remuneration of companies by leave to 15 days, with effect from 1 July 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3701	Proposal No. 47, 50, 53, 57 and 58, from Red. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all beneficiaries receive a compensation rate of 80 pst. of revenue up to 3 G, with effect from 1 October 2020. ‘... Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government requests the continuation of the full pay compensation scheme for 20 days out of the year, so that from 1 September 2020 the government will cover full pay for 10 days in addition to the company’s pay obligation of 10 days.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the temporary compensation benefit for apprentices also for new cases out of the year, as well as from 1 November 2020, to provide full compensation for all out-of-work apprentices for income up to 3 G.’.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of marine hull production facilities above 75 metres, in relation to the existing yard industry, in order to take back a greater part of the maritime value creation that takes place in Norway.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that exceptional maintenance is carried out on all ships owned by the government, provided that the work is carried out by Norwegian shipyards.’ The Socialist Left has already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3742	Proposal No. 54 and 56, from Red. Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue the temporary extension of the benefit periods for the beneficiaries of redundancy benefits during the year.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to grant funds to the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea for the construction of the ‘South Coastal Research vessel’, subject to the assignment to the Norwegian shipyard.’ The centre party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3766	Should we vote in favour or against?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3771	Come with me! Proposal No. 60, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a support scheme for municipal investment in electric ferries, where construction contracts are awarded to shipyards and production companies in Norway.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3790	Proposal No. 46, 48, 52, 55 and 59, from Red. Proposal No. 46 sounds: «The government is asked to continue the reduced minimum income requirement in order to qualify for a daily allowance out of the year.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the benefit period out of the year for beneficiaries who had 19 or less weeks left of the daily allowance period at the end of June 2020.’;» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the temporary compensation benefit for self-employed and freelancers by 80 pst. the degree of compensation.’;» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a system of condemnation for outsourced offshore vessels, provided that recycling is carried out in Norwegian shipyards.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase Enova’s contribution to climate action in industry.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green Party have already supported the proposals – the Centre Party with subsidiary support for proposals No. 46 and 52.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e3830	Proposal No. 43, from the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e6419	Proposal No. 44, from the Green Environment Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a student day-care scheme according to the model of the scheme for persons who have recently graduated from first-time employment.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e6436	Proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e9271	Proposal No. 23, 26, 31 and 40, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a scheme to ensure that students with loss of income between 16 June and 31 December 2020 benefit from the same scheme of extra loans and conversion into scholarships that applied to students in spring 2020.’» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure quickly that new, clear projects, which fall under the decentralised system for cultural construction, are supported under a new framework for the 2020 scheme.’» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to continue the temporary rules for the amount of the lump sum in agriculture, etc. and the temporary rules applicable to third-country professionals.’» Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in relation to all major, both current and future, support schemes and aviation crisis packages, to impose conditions on the increase of the inclusion requirement from 0,5 pst. For 1 pst. Advanced biofuels.’» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e9305	Proposal No. 30 and 34, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the reduced requirement for lost working time be extended to 40 pst. also for new cases.’;» Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The Government is asked to continue the measures provided for in the temporary regulation on exemptions from the Swedish Social Security Act and the Working Environment Act in the case of covid-19 which deals with the beneficiaries of redundancy benefits.» The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e9329	Proposal No. 24, 25, 27-29, 32, 33, 35, 36, 41 and 42, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the compensation scheme for cultural life is continued with the same device as it is today’.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own proposal for measures of competence that may be available to cultural actors.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a guarantee that the interim daily allowance rates will be extended as long as the risk of cancellations and lay-offs due to covid-19 and infection protection measures persist.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the suspension of a three-day waiting period before the daily allowance is paid, including after 1 January 2021.’; Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the temporary reduction in minimum income requirements to 0,75 G also for new cases.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to extend the temporary compensation for self-employed and freelancers at the same rate as before.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the temporary income insurance scheme for apprentices also in new cases.’; Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that North Norway improves Hurtigruten’s offer, increased to at least twice the number of take-offs during the Coronapandemic and returned to Stortinget in an appropriate manner during the autumn of 2020.’» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the taxi industry is guaranteed a compensation scheme with no minimum amounts and no excess claims, either as part of the new travel scheme or a separate industry-specific scheme.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government asks that companies which are resident for tax purposes in countries listed on the EU blacklist of tax havens are directly or indirectly controlled by shareholders in the blacklist, directly or indirectly control subsidiaries or own businesses permanently established in the blacklist, or share ownership of establishments in the blacklist with enterprises in the blacklist, are cut off from any state corona-related aid such as compensation and guarantee schemes.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to require all companies receiving corona-related State aid to show full transparency about all real owners and corporate structure.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e9401	Proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12170	Proposal No. 20, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a retroactive change in the model for companies with large seasonal variations in turnover, so that the requirement for the activity to be carried out in full or in part outdoors is deleted, and the proportion of turnover in the peak season to be covered by the scheme is reduced to 70 pst.’ The Socialist Left and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12187	Proposal No. 19 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the extension of the system to maintain logging peak activity until 1 July 2021.’ The Labour Party has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12204	Proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the support scheme for public open events so that support can be sought regardless of whether the event was planned to be open to the public or not.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12222	Proposal No. 11-13, 15-18 and 21, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to abolish the requirement that events have been cancelled in order to receive support under the cultural event compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to abolish the requirement that assignments and events must have been planned before 12 March 2020 in order to receive support under the cultural events compensation scheme.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government asks the government to reduce the lower limit of the compensation scheme for culture, volunteering and sport from NOK 25 000 to NOK 10000.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adjust the model to cover regulatory maintenance costs to cover all regulatory maintenance, including maintenance services purchased/rented, and to demonstrate the necessary compensation of employees for activities carrying out the maintenance under its own control.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the period for the calculation of statutory maintenance costs to the period from 12 March to 31 October 2020.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the period during which the maintenance of seasonal holdings may be carried out until 31 March 2021.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up on the grant of reimbursement obligations in case of cancellation and cancellation of package travel from 14 March to 14 March. June 2020, as adopted in the context of the revised national budget 2020, may be up to 80 pst. of the reimbursements and the start of the next round of distribution as soon as possible.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government requests the adjustment of the guarantee scheme for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises by increasing the maximum maturity of the loans from 3 to 6 years’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12277	Proposal No. 61 and 62, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all beneficiaries receive a compensation rate of 80 pst. of revenue up to 3G, with effect from 1 October 2020 and until further notice.’;» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government requests the conversion of the proposed grant scheme into municipalities that will compensate enterprises affected by extensive local infection protection measures into an application-based grant scheme for activities affected by such measures, where enterprises may receive support based on the same model as is applied in the new travel industry compensation scheme.’; The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12301	Proposal No. 66, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a return by the end of 2020 with proposals for a stabilisation package for aviation, with financial framework conditions in place for airlines based in Norway, including measures ensuring the seriousness and orderly remuneration and working conditions of aviation.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12318	Proposal No. 63-65, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in relation to all major, both current and future support schemes and aviation crisis packages, to make sure that there are permanent posts with direct employment in the carrier.’ 64 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government for all major, both current and future support schemes and aviation crisis packages to impose conditions on compliance with home-base rules that clearly define employer responsibility, social responsibility and Norwegian labour law legislation.’ 65 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in relation to all major, both current and future aid schemes and aviation crisis packages, to impose conditions on it not to accept flags of convenience or subsidising foreign subsidiaries.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Environmental Party of the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e12339	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e15291	Proposal No. 2-9 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the provision of income assurance schemes for students who can refer to income losses in the autumn of 2020, within the framework of the budget of the Storting.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that beneficiaries of grants from the compensation scheme for organisers and subcontractors are not able to pay bonuses to senior executives in the remainder of 2020 and in 2021.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that beneficiaries of grants from the compensation scheme for organisers and subcontractors undertake not to increase the remuneration of directors or directors in the remainder of 2020 and in 2021.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that beneficiaries of grants from the compensation scheme for organisers and subcontractors cannot have parent companies in third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that beneficiaries of grants from the compensation scheme for organisers and subcontractors cannot pay dividends or make share buy-backs in the remainder of 2020 and in 2021.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to compensate the municipal sector for the loss of tax revenue in 2020 compared to the estimated revenue in the State budget for 2020.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asking the government to compensate each municipality for direct additional expenditure incurred as a result of the covid-19 outbreak.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure predictability throughout the winter season 2020-2021 of the travel compensation scheme. Provision should be made for monthly payments of aid.’;» The centre party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18081	It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18138	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18151	It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18171	The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18183	It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18193	The Labour Party and the Center Party are in favour of the proposal. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18241	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18251	The decision will be taken a second time at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-09.ana.ud305e18290	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
