ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e128	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e140	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Kari Henriksen. Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Kari Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents for this week's meetings. The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e149	Red promotes proposals to prevent Wizz Air from flying domestically in Norway as long as they actively counter trade organisation and collective bargaining and engage in social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e154	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1–16 concerns the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e342	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 1-16.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e358	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and seven lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e367	Our committee was supposed to be among the last to have a budget debate, but we became the first. These are important areas we are going to debate here today. This concerns the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. These are big and important items. I choose to start in the football language. Many of us know the FIFA ranking, where the world's country ranks by results. After the fall, Norway’s masterland remains in 44th place. In the Climate Change Performance Index, conducted every year, Norway has moved up four places this year, to a seventh place. In front of us are Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom. Finland is right behind us, after we passed them this year. The index measures four areas: greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy, energy use and climate policy. Norway is doing well in particular on renewable energy and emissions, including an increased emission target. Since today’s majority took over the management in autumn 2013, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway have only stabilised and fell in the last four years. Last year, in particular, it fell sharply and the climate target for 2020 is within reach. The final figure of the SSB for Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 showed that emissions decreased by 3,4 pst., or 1,7 million tonnes. If we cut as much in 2020, emissions will land at 48.6 million tonnes. Note 48,6 – it is on the decimal point the Stortinget decided in its 2008 and 2012 climate settlements. It's without being corrected for the corona effects, which can give further cut. In fact, I just have to say that, but Minister for Climate and Environment Sveinung Rotevatn from the Left is very likely to be historically like the first Norwegian Environment Minister who reaches a climate target, 30 years after the Kyoto agreement. It is important to score targets in climate and environmental policies, but I would also like to point out that a job needs to be done across the track. It's an entire government that delivers. In the 2021 budget, there's room for $2.7 billion. kr in order to be fully engaged in the capture, storage and transport of carbon/CO 2, or CCS, as we tend to reduce it. It is a new chapter in Norwegian industrial construction, but not least an important climate action. At best, we can manage to take CO 2 out of the atmosphere on a large scale. The world needs it to achieve its climate goals. In addition, we can create export opportunities for the Norwegian supplier industry in Norway. Then I would also like to say that there are not so many who know it, but in these days Norway's first micro-CCS, a biocarbon plant at Rudhögda, India, is actually being completed. It also captures CO 2 from pipes at Nortura’s plants. This biocoal, which is the residual product from pyrolysis, has many uses: soil improvement, water erosion and addition to animal feed, to mention something. I also include this example, of course, because biocoal came into the Granavolden platform in 2018. It shows how fast the changeover and the speed are in the green shift that is now taking place in Norway, but it also shows the breadth of Norwegian measures and not least in Norwegian business. There is great willingness to contribute, not only for the environment, but also because it gives a competitive edge. The Green Platform is yet another innovation in 2020, with 1 billion. extra kr for green conversion. It is administered by the Ministry of Industry, but managed by Innovation Norway, Siva, the Research Council and Enova. One hundred million. kr to hydrogen is new in the year, and a circular economy investment is also an important part of this. We see it in green shipping, how fast it is now, and where the state also uses its purchasing power. There are a lot of ways to play. Norway is fortunate to have large natural resources to harvest. Wind power has been a major debate in the last year. I'm glad we landed a new regime on it. But also in nature, we have great challenges. We've been delivering a lot over the last eight years by nature as well. It is enough to mention soil protection and forest protection, where there have been many more selected cultural landscapes, and ecological base maps, which were launched last week. Thus, both climate and natural results are delivered within a wide range, which takes Norway further up on the international rankings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e402	First, a comment that Ketil Kjenseth says that the climate target for 2020 will be achieved. Well, now the calendar shows December 14, 2020, and there's nothing to suggest that it's being reached. It is not my words, it is written from the Ministry, where it says that the climate target for 2020 will not be achieved. That's what the government budget says. But I have a question about the future: now we've got a stronger target for 2030. That is good, although the Labour Party believes that we should do the same as in the EU, and say at least 55; I see that Erna Solberg has rejected it and said that it is not relevant for today's government. But in my naivety, I thought that when we adjust the targets, there would be something to say for our national cut as well. But the state budget still says that you see a 45-pst cut and that you still open up allowances to do something about national emissions. My question is: is it that the Left really believes that the adjusted targets should not be said for national emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e411	Now we have cut emissions in the last four years, 1.7 million tonnes in 2019. If we cut as much in 2020, which is very likely, we get under 50 million tons. So it's important to keep focus on cutting emissions and doing the job from day to day, from year to year, in order to reduce emissions. The Granavolden platform says we have to cut 45 pst. in the non-quota sector. Then Norway, as one of the first countries, has reported that we are going to cut 50–55 pst. in relation to the Paris Agreement, and we are also aligning these objectives with the countries around us, and in order to achieve the different objectives, whether in comparison with the 1990 or 2005 targets. Obviously, it has a consequence. We cut emissions, and we have more ambitious targets than we had in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e418	Marine littering is one of the major problems we see, perhaps one of the biggest, and the government has arranged to combat plastics in the sea. When the Progress Party was in government, we had our own aid program for marine pollution, and we prioritised helping countries that had problems with their waste management. This entry has now been greatly reduced. How can the Left believe that the control of plastics in the sea is a high priority when the sum for this purpose is shaved so strongly?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e425	Thank you for the question. I am very pleased that the Advance Party was involved in increasing the appropriations for plastic waste disposal in the years in which they were in government. We have made a great effort in this area, which is one of the newer waste, environmental and climate challenges we have. We have to make a great effort to do that. Norway has done a lot to catch up along our coast – Fishing for Litter is one example, where fishermen, for example, are can deliver what they catch — but the international activity here is also important. We had a big TV action this fall that showed the effort that needs to be made. Norway has also stepped up in the United Nations to make an effort in the seas. This applies to marine acidification, but also to plastics. Many countries have to contribute here, and it is important that we continue to do the effort that is to be made, together with other countries, which has a great responsibility for the plastic moving along the Norwegian coast and which does not necessarily come from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e432	This fall we have gone and waited for the climate announcement to come. Now it is announced that it will not come until the New Year, but the government has developed a climate cure, as a basis for what we can expect in the climate announcement. One of the proposals is to reduce the number of livestock dramatically, as a result of the switch to a more plant-based diet. My question is whether the Left believes that e.g. cube André N. Skkelstad is the biggest threat to the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e439	Thank you for the question. Now the country and agriculture have entered into an agreement. It is the first sector that has written an agreement to cut emissions, and it is a little over 5 million tonnes by 2030, so I commend agriculture for having an offensive approach to the climate challenges. There is nothing there about the cow being sacrificed first in the climate plan. There are many other emissions to take off in agriculture. Among other things, the methane that is in the faeces from the cow is sweating in many dung beetles. It is possible to put a lot of solar panels on the roof, it is possible to put a lot of renewable fuel on the tank of tractors and other vehicles, and we are going to go to a precision farm. There is a large-scale electrification also in agriculture. So there are many other possibilities before we sacrifice the animals, but there is also a great deal of effort in Norway to reduce emissions through genetic research and other adaptation of the species, so that emissions are reduced. We'll put the effort there first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e448	I note that the representative Kjenseth says that today's Minister for Climate and Environment, Rotevatn, can be historic and is the first to deliver an international climate agreement for Norway. Well, that means in case today's government has committed itself to breaking the Kyoto Protocol. Now leave it. My question is that a total increase decided that all new passenger cars sold in 2025 should be zero-emission cars. This State budget introduces a separate traffic insurance charge for electric motorists. The Minister for Climate and Environment defended the traffic insurance tax by simultaneously increasing the price of the polluting cars, but the budget agreement with the Progress Party has eliminated this increase in the price of fossil cars. Does the Left really think that when we're going to have a hundred percent sale of zero-emission cars in 2025, is the way to go is to make it more expensive to own an electric car and cheaper to buy a fossil car?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e456	Firstly, I want to say that I am sorry that SV put in a government that stopped all Norwegian biofuel production, so we have had a lot to do again to get 25 pst. biofuel on the tank, which will be next year. And still, until 2030, there will be many fossil cars on Norwegian roads, and then it is also important to reduce their emissions. In the case of the traffic charge, there is a type of user charge. We have no ambitions that it will be free for electric drivers in the future. It was the country that levied the user charge before, now it has been transferred to the insurance companies to collect it, and there have been similar taxes on electric cars in the past. This is a transition to equalising some of the charges we charge from the drivers. The important thing is that there are large fees to buy an electric car. It is still, and only in November was the share of electric cars and zero-emission cars that were sold, well over 50 p.m., so we're on our way to reaching the goal in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e468	We're in a decade, the 2020s, which is going to be absolutely crucial for both Norway and the rest of the world. So I want to start with the world out there and what happens there means to us. This weekend, the Paris Agreement was five years. A separate summit on the web basically underlined two things, first, that we are not in line with the goals we set ourselves, some of us, second, that the seriousness has gone up too much, and that the measures are now starting to come seriously. There's a number of things happening in these days. The EU came into being just before the weekend in goals with its reconstruction plans, which means that the EU's green giving is now going to be rolled out too fully, with great force. It's a targeted strategy, not just for what to end with, but perhaps the most important for what to start with: creating a renewable, circular and sustainable economic future. Today, the new President of the United States is formally appointed in the Electoral College there – Joe Biden. Then we're going from a climate negator to a climate activist and an American management who's going to put climate policy at the heart of what they're going to do, and whose first job is to report the United States back into the Paris agreement. In both cases, it is important to do what is called ‘Build Back Better’ — build better — in other words, to ensure that the financial measures needed to get out of the Korona crisis also set the course for a sustainable future. In Asia, we see that even there, the leading industrial nations have set themselves similar ambitious targets, net zero carbon neutrality by 2050 – that is, no more emissions than what you can capture yourself, already have South Korea, Japan and several others said. China says the same thing, correct by 2060. So now, a large majority of the world's major economies have already embarked on a very ambitious goal. Norway itself should now become clear on 55 pst. We say 50 to 55 pst. There is no celestial difference, but I think it's natural that we say as soon as possible that we too are striving towards the same goal that is now becoming the new normal for countries like us. It is no longer a question of Norway having to go ahead. Who hasn't heard the argument: what can little Norway do with its small economy, when no one else does anything? That problem is solved, the others are doing something -- many of them are actually doing just now more than we are. We have to be on the road, and that goal on the Norwegian side has to be a target for the entire economy, all greenhouse gases, all sectors, that is for the sum of what we are doing in Norway – 55 pst. cut, a national target for which the Workers' Party is committed. But this change in the world, which is joyful for the climate, also carries some important messages to Norway. It becomes increasingly clear that what we've lived well up to now is going to be less. The world is going away from a carbon-driven economy, but at the same time, much of what we can do more, is going to grow much faster than we might have thought. The change that we all have known in a long time is now much faster and requires much clearer and more radical action in order to be able to hang on to the turns. We simply need, like all other comparable countries, to set ourselves some overall objectives that are linked, for industrial policy, industrial policy and climate policy, and to ensure that we raise whole new value chains, carbon capture and storage, which can both create jobs and cut emissions and preserve many of the jobs we have today, perhaps also extend the gas-age, a gas-age that would otherwise be threatened by the European Union's going away from carbon emissions. That means that we need to take clear and strong action on the circular economy, and we have proposed in our alternative budget a so-called Pilot-S for a strong circular economic boost. We believe that Enova must also be able to support measures in the quota sector, as this old distinction between the quota and non-quota sectors is increasingly relevant in countries other than Norway – it is in a way that we in particular cultivate it. We believe that we need to seize the possibilities of changing early, to what we have to do anyway late. But the most important thing is that we succeed in doing this in a way that is fair, that ensures that we use the whole country, that counteracts the social inequalities that might otherwise arise. That's why we need a policy to cut emissions, create jobs and make sure that people are involved, and that anyone who can contribute is allowed to be involved in the process. We will come back in the course of the debate with our concrete proposals in this way. I would like to address the proposals that we have put forward and that we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e491	Then the representative Espen Barth Eide addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e498	The working party has become a little high and dark at the expense of the government in connection with the presentation of the State budget. It is in so far as the role of the opposition is concerned, but it has in particular brought forward CCS, with wording such as ‘The working party asks the government to turn up for CO 2 cleaning’. As the representative Espen Barth Eide himself said in the matter of it: ‘To achieve this, we need an investment decision already next year’s state budget for two full-scale CCS facilities’. [[...]] In the Labour Party's own budget, on the other hand, they spend only one. What has happened in the last month that the Workers' Party has chosen to finance only one facility?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e511	We still believe it is very important that we have two full-scale plants, both Norcem in Brevik and Klemetsrud, and that the Klemetsrud plant can otherwise be used as a basis for carbon capture at other waste facilities in Norway. We have followed the process that has taken place during the year. An application has been sent to the EU Innovation Fund. We have been in dialogue with those behind the Klemetsrud plant for a model where we increase the commitment from Norway by 1.5 billion. NOK, so that we reduce the amount of the application accordingly. The impression we have is that it will increase the likelihood of getting this money from the EU, because it is not a bad idea to get money from the outside as well. What we have to make sure is that we finally stay with two plants. If that trail doesn't work, we'll come back with alternative funding, because we want Klemetsrud to be built too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e516	As the representative was in his post, there is a regulatory framework that distinguishes the quota sector from the non-quota sector. It is a system that obliges the smaller enterprises, preferably local enterprises, to pay a CO 2 tax in relation to their emissions, while large, slightly more international groups are in the quota sector and pay a variable allowance price. Although the allowance price has made a pants in the last days, it is between 250 and 300 kr per tonne. Industrial enterprises in the quota sector in Norway are now subject to an increase in the CO 2 tax in addition to the price adjustment of 5 p.p., which corresponds to a charge approaching NOK 600. So we're going to charge smaller companies a double charge. The workers' party's answer to this is to increase it even more. My question to the representative is: How many jobs will the Labour Party be willing to sacrifice to achieve its objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e529	Our entire climate, industrial and industrial policies are designed to create and maintain jobs, not to eliminate them. We realize that the markets to which we export – a very large part of the Norwegian economy is export to the rest of the world – are just asking for cleaner production. This means that all the incentives that trigger early intervention of the new technologies, which allow you to produce more with less emissions, will gradually be rewarded in the market. So this is actually an investment in maintaining Norwegian jobs. Then I agree with the Halleland representative that the quota price is too low, and it is very important that we now support all the measures that are taking place not least in the EU, so that the ETS quota, that is, the European quota system, really starts to bite, because then the quota price will eventually follow what is going on in the non-quota sector. But let me stress that where I think Halleland and I can agree, it is now important to get more equality between the quota and non-quota sectors and increasingly view the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e538	A small follow-up to what Mr Westgaard-Halle asked the Workers' Party: like the Centre Party, the Workers' Party has been engaged in two full-scale capture and storage installations for CO 2. A simple question: is the Workers' Party still committed to that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e546	I thank you for the question, and the answer is definitely yes. We want at least two full scale plants. We need two full-scale plants in the near future, so that they can spread to both the process industry, from Brevik, and other waste incineration, from Klemetsrud. That goal is established, and I am pleased that there is something the Center Party and the Workers' Party can work closely together on. Then we have assumed that once an application has been sent to the EU Innovation Fund – that is not where we started this discussion – we will await the outcome of it. We have then increased the likelihood of this happening by reducing the amount of the application so that the Norwegian application becomes a smaller proportion of the total amount of aid available. That's the track we're pursuing until we know the outcome of it. If we can't do that, we have to find other ways to provide two waste facilities, that is, Norcem in Brevik and Klemetsrud in Oslo east.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e553	It was gratifying to hear that the Workers' Party is approaching the SV's climate target and today it is clear that Norway should assume an emission obligation to cut emissions by 55 pst. Then there's only 5 percentage points left before you get up on SV's measurement of 60 pst. Cut, cut, A few years ago, the working party was perhaps one of the leading figures for the use of quota purchases in other countries as an instrument for achieving climate change targets. When we last addressed the climate in Stortinget, and the agreement with the EU, the Workers' Party, together with SV, the Greens' Greens' Party and some others, said that we should take these cuts in Norway. My questions to Barth Eide are: Will the Workers' Party also go in order for the 55 pst.-cuts to be taken in Norway, and will the Workers' Party in any new government ensure that it becomes more expensive to pollute?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e561	The answer to those questions is yes. We're dealing with SV and several others in the opposition that we're going to have a national measure of 55 pst. for the whole economy, both what we have traditionally called the quota sector, and what we have called the non-quota sector, which is a contrast that we have been particularly happy about in Norway. I am pleased to acknowledge that the Workers' Party was quite excited about the difference in its time, but the world is evolving. We're approaching 2030. Then there will be many fewer allowances left, and we're going to 2050, where Norway is going to be carbon-neutral. This means that all sectors must succeed in doing what they are doing now, whether it is producing goods, services, transport or food, in a carbon-neutral way. That's one way to think about that that's gotten into more lately. Then there is no time to lose. There is really no gain in buying away from conversions that must in any case happen. It is better to arrest them now, invest in them and then win the competition because we were early out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e568	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e573	Three years ago, we discussed the first state budget of this period in the Energy and Environment Committee. Then we could see that the bourgeois majority in the previous period led to a climate policy that worked. Emissions were on the decline, and the government could refer to climate action on climate action that worked. Then I am so glad that we can still say the same in the last budget that is being dealt with in this period. Emissions have fallen and are now at the lowest level since 1993. Once again, the four majority parties have shown that it is those most suitable to find the balance point in climate policy. Yes, I am so little discreet on this beautiful December day. On the one hand, we make it more expensive and less attractive to pollute. On the other hand, we're making it more profitable and easier to choose green. Over the last seven years, this government has facilitated an electric car revolution, launched a green shipping programme, put a significant emphasis on public transport and rail, achieved a climate agreement with agriculture, said yes to the world's most environmentally friendly and energy-efficient aluminium production on Hydro Karmøy, amended the legislation so that public acquisitions have to give more emphasis to the environment and climate in bid, launched the zero-emission fund for business transport, introduced the climate action scheme, established the Nysnø Climate investments that contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through profitable investments. We have doubled the support for Enova that has led to bets on everything from electric city buses to the world's largest floating sea wind farm, etc., etc., etc. I could stand here for hours. Unfortunately, I only have three minutes left. So I have to stop summing up there. The point is very simple. Unlike the alternative budgets of the left-hand side, which are always filled with symbolism and promise breaks, the government has implemented measures that lead to real emissions cuts, leading to real green innovation, while facilitating value creation. Because it's not going to be a green shift with red numbers. With this budget, we show that we are continuing to invest in climate policy in the future as well. We are seagoing Langskip, the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever, a project where governments and industry work together to cut emissions and secure and create important industrial workplaces. We grant money to follow up the hydrogen strategy with a hydrogen roadmap where we will look at how we can lift Norwegian hydrogen projects and get a bigger stake in this. We are making profitable investments and upgrading hydropower plants with the cash flow tax. We'll give you another five million. kr from the government initially proposed earlier in the autumn, to implement effective and targeted forestry policies to increase carbon capture in Norway. And then 1 million. kr extra for the work on the cleaning of marine litter, with a grant of 1 million. kr to Oslofjordens Freiluftsråden – a small greeting from my home there! No, that's not true, as the left-hand side tries to make it, that the projections of greenhouse gas emissions are poor, but thanks to the bourgeois government, we have been informed about how much more we have to do in order to achieve the 2030 target in the state budget. What is in the budget is based on policies already adopted, but then we need to strengthen climate policy every year. Thanks to our two great state councils, including Tina Bru and Sveinung Rotevatn, we have this information in the budget. To that we say to Lars Haltbrecken, please. After the Christmas that comes now, we will deal with the climate cure. The climate communication based on the knowledge base Climate change, which this government ordered, is the tool we get, which will ensure that we achieve the 2030 targets, which will ensure that we have a climate policy for all sectors in Norway. There is something new in Norwegian climate policy, and it was good for me that we did it, because otherwise it would have been just regulation and moralism, and one had forgotten the value creation. Korona has shown us that if you shut down society, you can cut the emissions, but the green shift is completely down. That is what is actually the main difference between the civil side's climate policy and the climate policy of the left. Let's hope that after the election, we will continue to control climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e593	Now I don't know if I was most frightened when the representative Heggelund mentioned the word «revolution» or whether I was even more frightened when he threatened to speak for hours. [[muttering in the hall]] In any case, in the Workers' Party we want to increase the effort to prevent floods and escapes. We see that many who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear. This applies to communities, individuals and enterprises. At the same time, NVE has provided reports already in 2016 showing that with today's allocation and today's allocation rate, not all the necessary projects will be able to be carried out. So my question to the Right and Heggelund is, can more, with the money spent by the government and in the agreement with the Advancement Party, feel secure that their values and livelihoods are not lost in future races, floods and steps?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e602	The representative of Seestad addresses a very important question, because the fact is that we can already see the consequences of weather change and climate change in Norway. Although our country is one of the countries that is most sheltered from such events, we know that it does happen with us. That is why the efforts to prevent floods and slips have been so incredibly important to the bourgeois majority. That's also why the effort we've had over seven years in our budgets gets the red-greens' bet on flood prevention and tailoring to look like a bad joke -- maybe one of the jokes that didn't come in again, and that they had to cut away, or something in that dot. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e607	I totally agree with the representative that it has been doing a lot of good to reduce emissions over the last seven years. In agriculture, we see it, in the transport sector – in many areas we do. What is the risk in the future is that because we did many of our cut early — before 1990 and before 2005 — we are not getting the value of it in the same way that many other countries can do. This means that to achieve our climate ambitions, we risk moving jobs out of the country to prevent domestic emissions. The question is: Based on the history we have over the last seven years, can the representative guarantee that we will not implement climate action in Norway for the next eight years if they contribute to carbon leakage or move jobs out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e614	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, also raises a very important question. This is important to the Right in this context, and the representative Jon Georg Dale knows that well, of course, because after having been in government with us for many years, he knows our party as his own trophy room. [[muttering in the hall]] And it's quite right, as the representative Dale says, in Norway we've taken some of the low-hanging fruits. That's exactly why it was so incredibly important that we got a good knowledge of how we could achieve the very ambitious climate goal that we set for 2030. The climate communication, based on climate change, is coming. The point is that, on the one hand, policies that contribute to innovation, value creation and new jobs need to be pursued, so that they also contribute to new jobs. The second is that we should transform ourselves in a way that also protects our industry and our working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e621	The President had not expected it to be such a merry morning!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e626	The representative had probably wanted a line on predators, but I must unfortunately disappoint him that it will not. I want answers from the Right and the government on the CO 2 compensation scheme, which is important to many in the industry. So far, the government has not provided any guarantee to continue the CO 2 compensation scheme, nor in this budget. Does not the Right Challenge this will create for Norwegian industrial workplaces? What will the Right do to secure these establishments and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e639	I want to thank the representative for the question. That's the third very important question I get today. If the president is wondering why it's so cheerful, it's because you can be a little more relaxed and maybe a little more yourself when you might see your political career end that night. [[muttering in the hall]] With regard to the CO 2 compensation scheme, it is a little strange to say that this government has not been concerned about it. We have granted more CO 2 compensation every year. It's a big bet, precisely because we know how important it is to protect Norwegian jobs. Then it is that we are also engaged in intensive lobbying against the European Union, precisely so that the new rules, which are not quite clear, but which will be ready once before the New Year, will also benefit our businesses, our industry. We feel that the EU is responsive to us, but a small recommendation to the representative Sandra Borch: if she wants more influence in the EU: become a member!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e655	I get to thank the representative for a festively tuned post instead. At least there was no lack of self-confidence, and you can do a lot with performance and packaging if you have some bad policies to put forward. I'll take that with me. I notice that the representative Heggelund boasts that the government is making pollution more expensive, which is absolutely not in the sector where it is most important to cut emissions on land as quickly as possible, namely transport. It will be just as cheap to pollute by car but this government to next year, and even more expensive to own an electric car – NOK 2000 more expensive a year. In order to use a little big words, in the spirit of the representative Heggelund: how in all the countries and kingdoms of the world has the Right joined the first on the Granavolden platform to commit itself to the pump price being equal, that is, completely independent of the CO 2 tax that the representative Heggelund is dedicated to boasting of all the time? Why in the world is it still going to be implemented after the Progress Party has left the government, so that pollution on Norwegian roads does not become a krone more expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e667	It's a very common tactic of political opponents to say to people who are able to formulate themselves somehow committed to a pulpit, that those who do have no substance to come with. That's something I think several of us have met with both externally and internally. But that's not true for that reason. The reason for this is just by listening to the posts that are being held. I refer to the concrete results of government policy. It's hard to call it performance, it's hard to call it art – or art is maybe government policy? That is at least the concrete results. So we have a goal that all new cars sold in 2025 should be zero-emission cars. I don't know if the representative of Une Bastholm has got it, but we're about to achieve that goal – without being moralistic and without punishing people as much as possible, but using positive incentives. Please note that Une Bastholm wants to go to government with a party that will scrap the electric car benefits as early as next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e678	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e683	Inspired by Stefan Heggelund's patsy jokes, it could have been natural to start by saying that there's one thing we've learned in the last seven and a half years, is that at least there's not much to do with your hands in your pocket and try to find faults with the policies that have been pursued. When we look at the alternative budgets that are being treated today, we see what is going on to continue to build the country. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, there is a clear profile for an oil policy for increased production in Norway. As long as fossil energy is in demand, Norway should be a natural producer. That means we have to look for more, map out areas, open new areas, start new production. For this reason, I am pleased that as a direct consequence of the agreement we got between the Advance Party and the Government Party attached to the ice edge, is for example. 25th concession round now out. There is a clear example of the continued use of moving oil policy forward in an active direction. We need to look for more, for example. in the North of the Barents Sea – not because it is commercially viable today, we all know that it is not, but because there can be new fields there that will be profitable for Norwegian business in the future. And if there's one thing we've seen in the situation that the country has been in the last year, with the Corona, it's that oil and gas activity isn't just about the workplaces on the North Sea platforms. There are large, long value chains in the supplier industry, in the maritime sector and in other places that waver if oil policy is too defensive. That is why we are making a change of pace, including in our draft budget for 2021. However, we must also have a climate policy for jobs in Norway, not for the deflagration of jobs and increased global emissions. It was almost fascinating to the right-wing representative Espen Barth Eide on the pulpit today, where he hails the EU as a school example because they want to do what Norway has been doing for 50 years, simply to produce renewable energy and supply its markets with it. We have a completely different starting point in Norway, which also means that we have to have a completely different way of conducting politics, and don't look at 50, 55, or 60 numbers blindly – it probably won't be long before the Green Party reaches 65, and then SV has to go back to 70. That's what they're doing instead of looking at what it's really good at cutting global emissions, and what it's really good at getting new jobs in Norway. The draft budget for the Progress Party is full of it: action that actually works. Reforestation is the best example, carbon bonding in soil is another. These are concrete measures that Norway does not necessarily have to book the whole value of, if we pass through it in line with the Progress Party's proposal in its alternative budget, because the calculation exercises have taken care of it. But it binds carbon in a way that makes global emissions and bonds really become far better than if a straw around it with political symbols. But then politics stops in Norway, because the Labour Party, SV and others are more occupied with theoretical desktop calculations. That's what we need to use 2021 to get away from, when the new climate message comes from the government. We need a climate policy that cuts emissions, in Norway and globally, to cut as much as possible for each invested krone: an effective climate policy, a climate policy that secures jobs and creates new ones, does not move them out. It is worth reminding ourselves about it at a time when too much of this debate is about political symbols. Therefore, I am also pleased that much of this is included in the budgetary agreement that we have finally concluded with the government party. There's evidence that we can manage to take important, new steps next year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e700	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e705	Of course, the representative, Dale, is satisfied with what has been done in the budget negotiations, and certainly takes the credit for it. But I want to challenge a little when you talk about the importance of business development and job creation. We have one issue that has been dealt with quite unanimously in the budget, and not least in the negotiations on which the Progress Party has been involved, and it is a circular economy. After the cooperation between the government and the Progress Party, 10 million have been cut. kr in that bet. So I'm interested in hearing what kind of responsibility Dale takes for it cut, and how you want to get this rigged for the future. Is it not important for the Progress Party with circular economic efforts politically?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e710	What's amazing is that I take responsibility for everything that I'm involved in, including this. I can do that with pleasure when it comes to this issue, because who put forward these bioeconomic strategies, which actually rolled this out with a width that no one had ever seen in Norwegian policy before? Yes, the Progress Party in government. It's true that there's a little less investment in that budget agreement now than it was in the government's original proposals, but there's still a growth in the promises. But also here we're occupied with the most possible again for each of the invested heads. What is the issue of the Workers' Party is the opposite of what other than creating bio-economic strategies and allowing money to do? What kind of grip will take to increase reforestation, carbon bonds in soil, prevent red meat from being efficiently treated, e.g.? They're the ones we're still answering from the Workers' Party. We're on a safe footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e717	We hear the representative, Dale, talk about cost-effective climate policy. It is strange, then, that in its alternative budget, the Progress Party proposes to halve the appropriations for something that is very cost-effective and that is also part of Norway’s main contribution to the climate struggle, namely to conserve the rainforest. But now leave it. The representative Dale himself was involved in the coming climate announcement. At the same time, we hear many praises about the so-called climate friendliness of Norwegian oil and gas production. So my question to the representative Dale is, what will be the main demands of the Advance Party on the government's climate communication? Is it increasing Norwegian oil and gas production for climate reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e724	It hasn't enabled me before, but it was hunting a good suggestion, so at least I'll bring it to those discussions when they start up. It is absolutely crucial that Norway, with our supplier industry, with our efficient way of producing oil and gas, with relatively similar to very many other oil and gas productions – low emissions per unit produced, has an active policy for the development of the oil and gas industry. But there are also several other demands from the Progress Party, namely that we pursue a policy based on: ejection cut, do not move, that we do not punish Norwegian jobs, and that we first implement the most effective measures, rather than spending money on expensive projects, such as SV. is dependent on the electrification of Norwegian cap to NOK 8 000 per tonne.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e739	Absolutely all non-Progressionian batches point to the importance of biofuels in this budget as a solution to cut emissions in the transport sector. So my question is, why does the Progress Party not want to be involved in facilitating industrial development, jobs and increased production of renewable fuels in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e744	She may well be able to get a rewarding activity, for example: based on the forest resource, on biofuels, but the reality as of that date is that it is a very expensive climate action. If you look at climate change, it's in the most expensive category. In other words, it is not an effective measure to reduce emissions. Unlike the Center Party, the Progress Party assumes that we can't believe that we get emission reductions if we first spend the money on the most expensive measures, we have to first use the ones where it's cheapest, so we get the most possible first and best. That's the whole problem of the Center Party and all the other parties on the left in Norwegian politics, one does not take into account that with the costs that some of the climate measures they point to have – whether that's what the Center Party wants, electrifying Norwegian base based on thousands of new windmills on land, or there's a biofuel policy of a few thousand dollars per tonne – one will not achieve the objectives. And then we end up with this having to go around itself. It is not an effective climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e750	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e755	The pandemic has contributed to something good: it has given us a breath in a more climate friendly direction. It's given us a little breathing space. Climate emissions have fallen sharply as a result of less activity, especially in relation to emissions from the transport sector. That means that we might have a unique opportunity for conversion as we hopefully see the end of the covid-19 pandemic. The centre party is clearly behind the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is the central tool for climate change, both internationally and at home. We believe that Norway needs to follow up its commitments in the agreement, increase our own climate ambitions and work to make other countries do the same. All sectors of society must contribute and provide for effective climate change and action. At the same time, it is essential for the Central Party that we should not introduce measures that only move emissions to other countries or lead to greater emissions in total. The central party believes that it is a fundamental principle that we ensure a wide-ranging approach to climate policy. Then we have to make sure that the entire population gets involved in the transition and that we provide security for it to go the right way. We need to reconcile climate action, value creation and justice. Climate policy must be designed in such a way that it also takes care of other important societal concerns, such as industrial development, food production, social devaluation and settlement throughout the country. The centre party believes that it is a national task to contribute to the creation of more profitable green jobs in the coming years. It is necessary to work strategically on how enhanced environmental requirements can contribute to the development of new competences, technologies, industry and jobs. From this point of view, the Centre Party wants a climate policy that stimulates new technologies and new industries. Norway must use its competence and capital to cut emissions and create new jobs. The effort to capture and store CO 2 is a good example of this, which will help create new export opportunities, secure important environments of competence and build new industries. Sea wind is another example where we stand in the starting pit. And all of this is based on the skills and values that oil and gas industries have given us, and still give us. In this way, there is a bridge construction from oil and gas to the renewable industry. So it's about thinking two thoughts at once. We need to further process the industry we have and help it to make the transition and bridge to the other green side. In addition, the Centre Party is concerned that we need to use nature much more to achieve the climate goals. Not only is nature its own carbon capture and storage tool, investments in bio-industries also provide opportunities for climate change and create new jobs, new products and new value creation. Norway has not come far enough here. We need new powerful tools and clear strategies. Both the bioeconomy system, Enova and Nysnø are such tools, but it is clear that we need stronger tools and more long-term tools, both to establish new ones and to convert the existing industry based on biological resources. For example, the Norwegian forest is: a unique tool to both achieve climate objectives and increase value creation. Unfortunately, we are about to get rid of the expertise we have, and make ourselves a commodity-exporting nation as the traditional paper and wood industries slow down. We also need to enable these factories and this industry to produce new goods based on the forest, so that the timber trains to Sweden do not become longer, but shorter, and so that the number of people employed based on forest and wood resources is increased, no less. The Centre Party has therefore proposed a green investment fund of 10 billion. kr to contribute to long-term financing, conversion and new start-ups based on the green carbon. To realise this potential, we also need a plan for a strong increase in the long-term uptake of carbon in Norwegian forests. In the view of the Centre Party, the plan must assess forest planting on new areas and not least assess the value creation measures and concrete climate measures that could lead to the forest being the effective and good climate action it has the potential to be. Until we reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement, the weather and climate in Norway will continue to change. We must therefore rust our country for a wetter, warmer and wilder climate. Unfortunately, we have not seen enough will to do so far by the government. Both KS, NVE and other trades have for several years pointed to the need for increased appropriations to prevent and repair damage to floods, breeds and other destructions. The Centre Party has for several years proposed to strengthen this allocation and to do so this year. With that, I take up the proposals of the Centre Party and the proposals we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e781	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e788	Like the Workers' Party, the representative Myhrvold and the Centre are very concerned that we are going to use the whole country, and that we are going to make sure that the necessary conversion we are going to undergo is both social and not least geographical. There were many good signals about it in Myhrvold's posts. I want to address a problem in the public vocabulary that worries me a little, and it is that sometimes there is a city-land contradiction in terms of opportunities in the green shift, that sometimes climate policy can be thought of as being run by people in the cities, and to a lesser extent by people in the districts. But as the representative Myhrvold has just said, it is perhaps in the district industries that the greatest possibilities lie. What will Myhrvold and the Center Party do so that we can have a conversation about this, where the districts demand to get ahead of the possibilities of the green shift, rather than worrying that this is something that is imposed on them from the capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e795	I thank you for the question from the representative Barth Eide. The centre party sees no contrast between city and country in climate policy, and it is, as Barth Eide said, that perhaps in the districts this is the most marked, especially in primary industries — both forestry and agriculture. So there's no contradiction. To take an example from my own county that shows how important this connection in the value chain is: We have Norwegian Forest Saugbruks, which depends on a good climate policy, but they also depend on a good timber policy. In order to be valued in cities, we need infrastructure that gets wooded into the city – to create jobs. In that case, Saugbrug's means of conversion is also needed. Now they've closed the paper capacity of 25 p.m., and they don't have capital to convert to a new production line on composites. That is why the Centre Party has proposed this establishment fund of 10 billion. kr, which can help deliver the raw materials to the urban industry by providing typical district industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e802	We've been through a very exciting fall, and wind power has been one of the themes we've been debating. A message about how the wind power concession legislation should now be on land has just landed. I believe that the measures adopted were highly negotiable, even though I registered that the Centre Party released some loopholes for how to secure industrial workplaces with enough renewable power in the future – but enough about it. What I would like to highlight is the large-scale investment in sea wind that the Center Party is talking about in close touch with the remarks in the budget, which was also raised in the article here. Nevertheless, I wonder when I read the budget of the Centre Party: Where is it from this huge investment in sea wind? Does it seem that a bet without funds will be insufficient for what one mine is a large-scale bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e809	I thank you for the question. The centre party is like the Right concerned that Norway is a country based on renewable industry. It's been one of our most important advantages. We are going to need more renewable energy in the future as well, and it is true that it was an exciting treatment of the concession conditions for wind power. In the case of sea winds, the Senter Party has long called for a government strategy that could accelerate this development. That strategy we still believe is not available, and we still want to get it on the table so that we can get a sea wind bet that there is room for it. And then the Center Party is open to looking at investment solutions to get this industry moving. We believe that we should both electrify the socket and create a new Norwegian industry, we also need more clean energy. Sea winds will help solve part of that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e820	I came across a search page called Google, instead, and then I applied for the “Landing of the Roads Center Party”. There were matches from NRK, Evening Post, E24, Altaposten, iFinnmark and a drum of other queries. Then I did the same search in the 2021 budget setting, and it was completely empty. There's no match for it and there's a do. Will the representative now complain to all the inhabitants of Finnmark, especially those who have had expectations of landing at Veidnes, that the Central Party all this time, through all these missions, has done nothing but to throw blues at people's eyes? They had never intended to follow it up in practical politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e825	The centre party is quite clear that landing at Veidnes has been a prerequisite for well-established oil and gas policy. Norwegian oil and gas policy has constantly built on the assumption that it will create employment and value added on land. It must also apply in North Norway and not just along the west coast, where Dale has its root party. The centre party will continue to work to ensure that the resources available in the Barents Sea are shared by the population of Finnmark and Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e830	The representative mentions a green investment fund that the Central Party will establish and put in 10 billion. Add kr. I want to say that it has the government appointed in connection with Nysnø, which already has 1 billion. kr., who are well in the process of finding candidates to contribute. The representative is also concerned about forestry, and I see in the budget proposal that there is a desire to plant more forest. The representative also talks about nature. Part of the shift we're in is that we have to take care of more nature. We have experience in planting out sitkagran in Norway. As a result, many species have been lost. The question is, is there a desire to achieve one goal by destroying another – having a large-scale sitka granular plantation and killing quite a number of species in new areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e837	What the centre party cannot understand is that the government does not present a large-scale plan for forest investment as a climate action. At that time we also had a knowledge-based debate about incorporating new plant species as a sitkagran as a climate action. As of today, there is no such plan, and despite the fact that the carbon capture in the forest is going down. We are deeply concerned about that. The Norwegian forest has the potential to absorb around 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 each year if we initiate measures such as planting, fertilisation and cropping of the forest in a more planned form than the government has planned. Why does the government not seize this climate opportunity, is completely incomprehensible to us, and we are again calling for a plan for the forest as a climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e846	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e851	This weekend we could celebrate the five-year anniversary of the Paris Agreement. I remember the joy in Paris that Saturday five years ago: finally, the world community would succeed in getting an agreement on large emission cuts, emission cuts that would keep the world well below a 2-degree heating, and preferably below 1.5 degrees. To the VG at the time, Left’s Ola Elvestuen, on December 12, 2015, said that the Paris Agreement means that no new Norwegian oil production will take place in the northern regions: ‘When 195 countries gather to set such ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Norway cannot turn its back on and continue as before. If we are to achieve the objective that the temperature should be well below two degrees and towards 1.5 degrees in the future, there will be a significant impact on Norwegian oil and gas activities.» That's very well said. But that's exactly the opposite: Norway has turned its back on the world and still the same as before. After the victory party in Paris, the government went back to its old track. Since the Paris Agreement was adopted in December 2015, today’s government has given oil companies over 300 new blocks where they can look for fossil energy. The world's country is planning a fossil energy production that is over twice as large in 2030 as what we can pick up if we're going to reach the 1.5 degree target. This shows the UN report ‘The Production Gap’, which came in the autumn. Another report, ‘Oil, Gas and The Climate’, which came last year, shows that Norway has the world’s fifth most aggressive oil drilling plans in the coming years. Not long after the Paris agreement was said to put an end to new Norwegian oil production in the northern regions, it was among other things. Left to allow a lot of new oil activities in the northern regions, contrary to absolutely all environmental expertise, now before the summer. At the latest in the autumn, record oilfields were lit through the 25th concession round. To use the words of former Minister of Climate and Environment Ola Elvestuen: the government is turning its back on the Paris Agreement and the rest of the world. What is needed is a vigorous effort to cut emissions, create jobs and distribute burdens and benefits in a fair manner. We need a green new deal, a commitment to environmental solutions, to the industry that gives us the technology, the emissions cuts, the jobs and the future well-being. Here SV in its alternative budget is putting this type of industry into construction through a green new deal. We need, among other things: carbon capture and storage – not only one project, to which the government will commit itself, but at least two – and we must start carbon capture in many other installations around Norway as well, such as the waste facilities in Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Fredrikstad. Norway can then become a leading force in what must be an important part of the climate solution for the future. We can all enjoy reading the text of the Paris Agreement again. We can all enjoy thinking about what it actually means to keep the temperature increase below 1.5 degrees. Then, as the government is planning to do in the state budget, it will not continue to achieve the 2030 climate targets until 20 years later, in 2050. SV has submitted a climate budget showing how Norway can cut emissions by slightly over 60 pst. by 2030 compared with 1990. It's taking responsibility, it's listening to the demands of the climate-stripping students, it's hearing the climate roar that was in front of the Stortinge last year. With this, I take up the proposals from the SV and the proposals from the Green and SV Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e875	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e882	It will be difficult to replace the revenues we currently have from oil and gas, as they are phased out. At the same time, we see that we lack sufficient renewable energy to both realise new industries and reduce the climate impact of existing industries and jobs. So the question is: what short-term measures will SV give priority to ensuring more renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e889	There is an important question for the representative, Mr Grung, but it is also a challenging question, a difficult one. We've seen that through the recent wind power debate. But there is no doubt that Norway needs more renewable energy if we are to cut emissions, and if we are to manage to create the jobs we need to create to replace those on the Norwegian base. One of the first SV wants to give priority, and as I also think we are in agreement with the Workers' Party, is a large-scale effort to improve energy efficiency in order to release energy, among other things. in the Norwegian building stock, which can be used both for industry and for emissions cut. Secondly, in our alternative budget we have a strong commitment to, among other things. floating sea wind, an area where I also believe the Workers' Party will be with us and give us support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e894	The Socialist Left claims to be a climate party. At the same time, they are opposed to renewable forms of energy such as both wind power and hydropower. With the SV's policy, we must either continue to produce fossil energy or cut massive energy use. After all, we are unable to energy-efficient 80 TWh – that means turning off the light. As if not enough, SV does not want economic growth either. It basically means a society quite similar to what we see in business now, in the Corona era. That means that people lose their jobs, businesses go bankrupt, unemployment increases and we have to deal with crisis packages. So this is going to happen at the same time as they're increasing taxes dramatically for most people as well as for business, which creates these jobs. As if that wasn't enough, we won't make money on oil either. So no oil revenues, increased unemployment, more bankruptcies, fewer income from enterprises, increased taxes, no wind power, no hydropower. What does the SV representative think we should live on in the future, in addition to tax receipts from companies that have gone bankrupt, and how should climate policy for SV be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e901	This is an exemplary way of turning things upside down. If we are to be able to secure Norwegian welfare in the future, we need to start a green industry that will cut emissions and secure future jobs. Those who gamble with the future and with the future incomes of the Norwegian welfare state are, of course, parties like the Right and their likes in the Progress Party, who want to run full, bonanza, in the Barents Sea, and gambles that there will still be countries that buy our fossil energy when they simultaneously cut the emissions and release themselves from the same fossil energy. If the representative looks at SV's alternative budget, she will also see that SV gives tax cuts to people most, to those with the lowest wages, those who have wages less than DKK 600 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e908	Like Westgaard-Halle, we are concerned about what kind of society we will get if the representative Haltbrecken and the Socialist Left Party comes to power. But a little bit of the same thing: we see that SV is protesting against any establishment of activity in Norwegian nature, whether wind power or hydropower. There are, of course, the same protests against activities on Norwegian soil, such as the extraction of oil and gas. Nuclear power, I'm sure I don't even need to ask. My question will not be on how to finance a society with the SV's policy. I don't think anyone can answer that. But my question to comrade Haltbrecken is: what power generation is it that will give society the necessary energy that will drive the socialist society on?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e917	As I said in one of my previous answers, more renewable energy production is also needed in Norway. One of the things that I didn't get into that answer was that we, among other things. need an upgrade of existing hydropower plants. It may be limited how much we can get out of a clean upgrade of hydropower plants, but it may also be possible to look at whether there are some expansion projects that can be carried out without too much environmental impact. In the debate on energy expansion, we need to recognise that all energy production has some kind of environmental impact, it's fossil emissions, CO 2, it's intervention, or it's waste production. What you have to do is make sure to balance these things and get a mix of renewable energy sources that enable you to cut emissions, create jobs and ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e927	The representative halting break isn't fast when he turns things around on his head. I would argue that we have actually operated a large-scale environmental restoration from the Left in the government in recent years, to clean up after SV in government. The representative himself was involved in oil exploration in the Barents Sea, and it was SV in the government that opened the Barents Sea south-east. Now we've moved the edge of the ice 140 kilometers south. We can take up a moon landing at Mongstad that was terriblely expensive and mischievous – not very successful. And we have a biofuel production that didn't lead to any production in Norway. But what I'm asking is, in the budget for SV, it says that they're going to spend 10 billion dollars. kr on a new bank. We have enough banks in Norway, and we have enough of them too. The other country is also getting a lot of it. Why not facilitate the entry of those investments into Norway rather than the use of 10 billion? kr on another bank, which we don't need in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e934	I just have to take a short trip into the Barents Sea, because when the representative, Kjeseth, says that there have been almost restrictions, great restrictions, on oil production there, the result of the negotiations that left was in the government before the summer, in line with the wishes of the oil industry. They got to put the so-called oil production restrictions right where they wanted to. We can see that through the 25th concession round, with record new oil and gas fields being announced. So to the question of the creation of a bank: Yes, we believe that we need a green state bank to secure investment in environmental solutions in the future, to secure investment in industry and jobs that will be involved and ensure our well-being in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e942	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e947	It is a merry tone when the Committee on Energy and the Environment has its debates on the state budget for 2020, but the backside here is quite serious. We have a backstop where the country has been through a big crisis and a big pandemic, and we have a backstop that is that the global temperature has gone up, and that we have a period behind us where the international climate leadership has not delivered the results that we need in the international cooperation forums, because the major powers have not followed up. The good thing about the dark rug is that Norway has shown a way, that Norway, as the first country, is raising its ambitions in the Paris Agreement, that we have managed to deal with the virus outbreak, and that we have managed to do it in a way where we have continued the green transition that has now created the budget. It also means that after we got a new multiple at Stortinget in 2013, greenhouse gas emissions have stabilised, they have started going down, and for the current year it seems that they can go down a lot. It follows that one has come up with a policy that works, where one has the power to prioritize, and where one has seen the carrying power and green conversion as the important direction that Norway is going to take. When we're about to adopt the state budget before the Stortinget takes a vacation and celebrates Christmas, we also come into place with a vow and a start of carbon capture and storage and Langskip. There's going to be a lot of work in Norway – this is a potential big technology that can create a lot of jobs, and it's not least a technology development that once again shows the way for the rest of the world. Norway's taking on the clay rod, and we're going to lead. That's good. Before me in today's debate, there are several people who have framed many of the good actions. What's important about that list is that there are also many points that belong to the debates of other professional committees. So we have the plus and the pluses to Nysnø. That means that there are more resources to invest in some of the good climate measures. The train betting permissions have not been exceeded. Some of the most important things when we're going to make a green future where we're no longer dependent on fossil energy sources are the green conversion that happens along our coast. And unlike the electric car advantages, Norwegian yards, Norwegian workers and Norwegian engineers deliver the solutions when we get to green conversion, and our ferries go to zero emission solutions. In the budget that we are about to adopt now, we are also getting improvements in the electricity tax, so that we get a cash flow tax on the hydropower. There will be more investment; it will provide more green renewable energy, which will benefit Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers. And not just that: when we do that, we also do it by getting back into place a promise that takes away some of the cuts, a little bit on the highest web sites of 37,000 customers. This government – and this plurality – continues a green tax shift, and we do it in a way that ensures that there is activity in the whole country, that it is a real shift, and that we do it in a way that ensures social inclusion. So I'm absolutely sure the Storting will get a lot of good debates over New Year's. The climate message will be here. Climate change has had a thorough hearing, and one should also show the way for Norway to meet the goals we have seen, and the climate ambitions we must reach, with the measures we are going to take. Then I look forward to good cooperation, and I hope that the cheerful tone of the committee can also win. What I hope won't work out then, is that there's a gap in some of the most important blocks that I've been going through now, when you look at what the opposition is proposing in its alternative budget, and what policies they've been pursuing in recent years. Where this majority has delivered a climate agreement with the EU, which is perhaps the most important criterion for achieving our climate objectives – and which is based on a good principle that Ivar Aasen found when he went through old sayings, that one should do it on his own, one should not ask others – then the opposition in this matter cracks. When this majority has been able to find an instrument that means that we no longer use rainforest-depleting biofuels in Norwegian tanks, yes, one in the Center Party’s alternative state budget sees them as opposed to those measures – without presenting any new ones. When we see this plurality add new investments that can ensure more power development on Norwegian water power resources, for Norwegian consumers and Norwegian industry, yes, SV protests on the device – and does not come up with good proposals that respond to what one should do. The multiple that we have now has shown a good direction, and I hope that direction is allowed to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e971	Climate is particularly affecting developing countries, and Norway is taking the lead in the development of renewable energy. Energy may be one of the most important needs in developing countries, both as a competitive advantage and as a prevention and development of climate challenges, which are also linked to migration, at least in our part of the budget. But then we see that the government is proposing to cut investment in renewable energy in developing countries by 73 million. kr, while previously stated in the Development Communication that the aim was to increase or double the renewable energy effort. So the question is, is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the way you now organize and use Norwegian knowledge in one of the areas where we could really contribute, when you cut the draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e978	The answer to that is yes. I am very pleased that we have a government that has taken structural action so that Norway is working better in development policy to contribute to green conversion in the rest of the world, and not least that we have a government that can both think about the climate change that is going to happen and that is able to contribute to climate change adaptation. As the representative is inside, the human beings who are being hit most by greenhouse gas emissions rise and the temperature rises, in less privileged parts of the world. For example, Difor has The greening of agricultural climate change is an important priority, which is also laid down in this budget. In these budget debates, it's often such that the Storting is sitting here and discussing who it is that gives the most permission to the existing budget, and it's a little cut, believing it's a big structural change. But that's not it. This is an aid budget to adapt to a situation facing the world’s worst pandemic for years. This should be reflected in the aid budget we have. This explains some of the short-term cuts that the representative asks questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e991	The Government of the Christian People's Party has chosen to cut dramatically the transfers for outdoor purposes in this budget. In the time we are in now, the Central Party believes that increased support is needed for, among other things. to get people into nature. What I'm asking is, what makes the Christian People's Party not want to give priority to good environmental and public health measures, which they have chosen to cut dramatically in their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e996	The representative Borch is right in one thing, and that is that this government has a Christian People's Party at the head. It is wrong that the re-priorities in the current budget mean lower ambitions on behalf of Norwegian outdoors. What I saw most about with Norwegian nature is that he is free, and that he is there available to everyone. That has been the reason why when the Christian People's Party has negotiated, in view of the opposition's negotiating with the government, this has been an important priority for us to lift. In the current budget, we have made some redeployments, one of which has reduced the rate for some outdoor purposes. Other outdoor purposes have a drawing up. Among other things, there's 2 million in there. kr, so that out.no can continue its digitisation, which many have used during the pandemic, and which has been an important step to get more out and to understand that there is nothing to do just because one thinks it is a measure funded by others, but precisely because it is free, good public health and something more that others should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1003	I have been quite disappointed by the Christian People's Party in government in terms of climate. This is a government that has the gas at the bottom for oil extraction and new permits. It's a government that increases investment all the time to highways we don't need, when we need to race-proof county roads and make it cheaper with public transport. There is a government that does not make it more expensive to pollute, and there is a government that is subsidising something completely grassy on climate aid that Norway should have set up for poor countries, both to cut emissions and to ensure climate adaptation, so that children in poor families in Africa get clean water when they are struggling because of drought. My question to the Christian People's Party is: What does the representative Storehaug think is Norway's legitimate share of the climate aid needed in the world, with the backing that the organisation Church's Emergency Aid has been clear that it is at least 60 p.m., and that Norway should hold 65 b.m. kr this year for the UN Green Climate Fund and other climate assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1010	The premise in the questions to the representative of Bastholm is completely wrong. This is a government that has expanded and that has led a policy that protects the most vulnerable areas of oil policy. This is a government that put forward a balanced arrangement when we, for example. discussed oil tax package. It was the Stortinge who came and said that here we need a policy that is more expansive. This is a government that has made record money available to both the public and the railways. It's a government that has expanded and also changed the way we work structurally to make sure that Norway joined the green transition also in the rest of the world. To the specific question of what is Norway's legitimate part: where I think that what this government has done when, for the first time, Norway raises its climate target as the first Western country in the Paris Agreement, is an answer to that question. The second answer to that question is that Norway per capita provides the most in climate finance to the funds that the representative was busy with. It shows that this is not just words, but action.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1017	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1023	The climate and nature crisis is the greatest injustice in our time. When we destroy for the environment, we destroy for ourselves. A lot of people have understood that. Despite the fact that Norway is now in the middle of a pandemic, several surveys this year have shown that the Nordics believe that the climate is the most politically important issue today. In fact, people are even more concerned about climate change this year than last year, when the year started, in the spring, that 40,000 young people were on a school strike around Norway for a different and better climate policy. We're now many people who want change, who miss that it's easier to choose environmentally friendly. But what the government does is the opposite. In next year's budget, they and the Progress Party will ensure that the prices of emission cars are frozen, while they will increase the annual charge on electric cars by NOK 2 000. That means it'll be more expensive to have an electric car and not one penny more expensive with a petrol and diesel car. It is four years before we will have stopped selling new fossil-based cars in Norway, and nine years before we will have at least halved emissions in Norway. It's such incomprehensible, climate- hostile action that makes the government's adopted policy only take us to the top of 20 pst. Cut by 2030, while the goal is to halve the emissions. The climate announcement, which was promised this year, is postponed to 2021, at the very last minute before the government is on the election again. However, if there is a change of government, which we hope to contribute to with tough demands on climate and nature, the population will never know what the Solberg government would actually have accomplished in connection with its own climate communication. It's pretty smart if you want to talk about what you can do instead of what you actually do. In the Environmental Party of the Greens, we show how we can take care of climate and nature while making society fairer and safer to grow up in. We make it easy to choose right, we make it cheaper to travel and eat environmentally friendly, we cut the price of repairs and reuse and finance the purchase of electric bicycles, loading stations in housing and energy saving at home, while making it more expensive to pollute. And we cut enough emissions: we show how emissions in Norway can be reduced by 60 pst. – in fact more than that – over the next nine years by phasing out emissions from oil, industry and transport. We also provide green jobs for everyone. We're laying out a plan for a Norway after oil, to create green jobs in all sectors. We are focusing in particular on the maritime sector. We'll switch off, among other things. 1 billion. SEK for a large-scale sea wind bet, 500 million. kr for zero-emission speedboats, and we're putting aside enough money to realize the carbon capture plant by burning on Klemetsrud. In addition, we are strengthening both the circular economy and the new bioeconomy. We are embarking on a shift in the pace of natural policy. We're using 3.5 billion. kr more on natural measures than the government of our alternative state budget. We are strengthening environmental monitoring and monitoring. We finance environmental advisers in all Norwegian municipalities, and we set up our own programme for natural restoration and strengthen forest protection. Among many other proposals we are taking part in today, I want to bring out five: We propose a ban on the sale of new fossil cars from 2025 if the objective is not achieved without such an instrument. We ask the government to ensure that ships in ports must be emission-free or connected to shore-side electricity. We ask the government to double Enova's support for energy measures in households, including solar energy. We are asking the government to ensure that housing laws and communities become a separate target group in Enova's programme. We want to wind up the search fusion scheme. Here is the wording of the proposal, proposal No. 29, from the Swedish Environment Party and the Greens, as amended, so that it now reads: The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to wind up the exploration fusion system by 1 March 2021 at the latest. The Greens want to build a Norway with jobs that are safe even in the future, where the air we breathe in is clean and the sea we live by is free of plastic, where we travel both efficiently, comfortably and without emissions, a Norway where we use our leading knowledge to save and restore the nature we have destroyed – the nature that we are so happy in and so vulnerable to depending on. Good environmental policy makes society better to live in, street by street, neighborhood by neighborhood. It demands that we dare to re-prioritize money from oil to renewables, from new motorways to public transport and racial protection, and from cheap petrol to electric car charging stations. Yes, that's possible, and that's smart, for both humans and the environment, but it requires a new thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1065	Thanks to the representative Une Bastholm for what I thought was a good post. I think it was particularly good that she drew out nature, as there has been too little talk about in this debate, and as there is too little talk about in environmental debates in general. Nature does not become less important because of climate change, on the contrary. Taking care of nature becomes more important because of climate change, both because nature itself is a victim of climate change and because nature is part of the solution to climate change. That's exactly what I want to ask Une Bastholm a question about: What does she mean, and what is the Green Party's view of how we can use nature as part of the climate solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1070	It's very right that the climate crisis and the natural crisis are very close together, so I've really started talking about it as the same crisis. Climate change accelerates the loss of nature and the loss of species on the planet. The loss of species, especially in the sea, that is, the loss of living carbon in the sea, the release of carbon, which in turn reinforces climate change. So here, there's thresholds that play together, which are really pretty dangerous. Right now it's pretty incomprehensible as well. I think it's very important to think that much of nature we probably have to protect, that we also have to restore more nature and reduce the area that humans occupy. But that's not just what we're going to do. It's also very wise to use nature more sustainably. So I support, for example, all industry and business that currently lives on renewable living natural resources, but it needs to be regulated in such a way that the same natural resources are there for future generations. It's about forestry. I am too much for more value creation in the forest we are taking out, but I also believe that we must dry to protect the one that is most vulnerable, and that has species that are endangered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1077	The Green Party says they want 67 pst. reduction in oil production by 2030. This will affect job creation and workers throughout the country. Almost all Norwegian municipalities have ring-fenced effects on Norway’s main industry. Today, the oil and gas industry employs directly and indirectly 225 000 people and attracts well over 100 billion. kr to the State budget. A reduction in oil production will dramatically affect Norway’s revenue. It is difficult to say where the country's revenues will come from in the future if the Green Party is to cut oil and gas production in a few years. Where does the Greens think that future jobs and the state's revenues will come from? Is it really that Norway should live on only taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1084	To start with, we have a completely different analysis of the future of Norwegian oil and gas than the majority in Stortinget has. It relies a lot more on analyses and the kind of world views you have in countries outside Norway that don't wear the oil glasses that we have. We want to go back to the 20th century, when oil and gas had the market we hope to have today, but the times are changing. This means, for example: cars are going to go more and more on electricity. This means that countries all over Europe want to become independent on renewable energy. Gas is for them a very short-term transition solution. So what we're saying no to is new readmissions and to keep investing capital and labour into an industry that we think is quite obviously on the verge, which the whole Storting really agrees on, but does not dare to have political governance to liquidate in a sustainable way. There are 50,000 people working directly in the oil. The number is much higher when you count very many others, and then it includes everyone who works in canteens, with cleaning, and who can work fine in completely different sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1091	The Environment Party representative De Red has been out there accusing the government of spending billions as full seafarers. Now I'm not sure how many billions of full seafarers drink up, but I'm actually more concerned about the Environmental Party The Greens' money usage than I am for Norwegian seafarers. In the Environment Party The alternative budget of the Greens, all production of oil and gas shall cease on Norwegian base from 2035. Can the representative estimate what it will cost the Norwegian State to close only one field, e.g. Johan Sverdrup, if we use it as an example of closing down the field from 2035? I live very well with a rough estimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1098	Thanks for another question about oil, which allows me to continue the reasoning I had before, after spending my time. So we have a completely different analysis of the future of Norwegian oil and gas than the majority in Stortinget. It must be remembered that when the representative from the Progress Party wants it to be the same kind of revenue in the future as we have had on the investments we have made so far in oil and gas, we say that we believe that this is not realistic. The oil tax package given in ours, for example, we know that we have triggered many projects – which even the Ministry of Finance was clear in advance that could be projects that would otherwise be unprofitable. This means projects which, from a market point of view, are completely without objectives and meaning. There are projects that will only provide jobs in the short term – not even in the oil, but on the yard, the yard that we could give to other projects and assignments that were directly green. The argument in the majority here today that you need to drive and keep giving oil money into these yards in order to be able to bet green has no credibility as long as you can't actually figure out what we can do from jobs by investing more in ocean wind, carbon capture and storage and other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1109	Yes, greenhouse gas emissions are part of the debate. From the government parties, we have pointed out that emissions are falling in Norway – that is the fact, the SSB has clearly said something about it – and they are falling rapidly. In Oslo, the Environmental Party of the Greens is in charge of urban councils together with the Workers' Party and SV, and, unfortunately, emissions are rising. We cannot let the Greens get away with that. Especially when you hear how much money you're going to spend, it's a little scary. What's the amount of money for when someone in Oslo doesn't make them work? Despite the fact that one chooses to spend a lot of money, one in the Green Party seems to be too expensive to electrify Norwegian pedestal. This means that there will be more than 150 gas turbines left on a Norwegian base to spew out greenhouse gases in the next few years. What is the answer to those gas turbines? That is my question to Une Bastholm and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1118	First, as the representative from the Left believes I cannot get away with the emissions in Oslo, I have to be allowed to answer that. That's how those numbers come from 2018. In 2018, there were many more municipalities with much greater emissions growth, and which were right-hand controlled, than the municipality of Oslo. What's clear when you look at the numbers, and which actually makes me a little surprised that the Left is at all afraid to talk about this, is that in the sectors where the Municipality of Oslo has control, where the Municipality of Oslo can set its own requirements, for example. municipal sites reduce emissions. In everything else, where the state has control, it's gone up. For example, a very important contributor to the increase in emissions in 2018, the state and private plant sites, because the country has not been willing to set the same type of zero emissions requirement as the Municipality of Oslo for municipal civil engineering sites. So I got to say it. When it comes to electrification of the base, we have never said that we are against electrification, but we do not agree that power should be driven and directed from land and risk major degradation of nature in order to electrify the platforms. In that case it must be done through sea winds.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1125	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1131	We're about to put behind us for a year unlike anything else in your memory. We've had to solve problems and we've met problems I think the few have ever seen before. The world has been uncertain, and it is still. We've made difficult decisions in these months. The most difficult have been about life and health, and I believe that the government has done well. But our Norwegian energy industry has not been affected either. The pandemic has led to a fall in demand and a great deal of unrest in global energy markets. The uncertainty also spread far into the Norwegian oil and gas industry. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I therefore decided to cut production on a Norwegian base. The government also presented a comprehensive package of temporary tax changes to keep the activity up-to-date in the supplier industry. I am very pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy was behind the tax package with some changes. Power generation and supply are a societally critical function and have proved robust in meeting the pandemic. It is against this backdrop that the government presented the state budget for 2021. The budget work was almost finished when the pandemic hit, and extensive adjustments were needed. Through the crisis packages, we have helped to create activity and maintain the pace of the green shift. Longships are one of the most obvious examples of our willingness to implement our policies. Long-distance shipping is the largest climate technology project in Norwegian industry ever. It is a commitment that builds new industries on the old, which secures industrial jobs today and provides the basis for new ones in the future. Not least, there is a large-scale investment in a technology that can cut emissions where there are no alternatives and can be significant beyond Norway’s borders. Just to secure jobs and create new ones for the future, the crisis packages we have put forward are going through, and this budget. We already see the positive effects of the tax package on the oil and gas industries. One concrete example is the Hod expansion, for which the government approved the expansion plan last week. It is very important to maintain activity and ensure that we do not lose the skills we need to continue the transformation of the Norwegian economy. We're also doing several other grips. The budget contains major and minor investments in hydrogen, sea winds and important changes in the framework conditions for our hydropower. Hydrogen will help reduce emissions locally, nationally and globally and create values for Norwegian business. The appropriations this year are 120 million. kr for innovation projects and 2 billion. kr to Enova as part of a green conversion package has been important. For the first time, we have also given priority to a new 100-million-dollar state budget line. kr for the following year to be used on the whole value chain and hydrogran node. We will also provide a new hydrogen roadmap that will help to systematise the investment further as part of the announced announcement to the Stortinget on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources. 2020 has not only been marked by the pandemic, but also by popular resistance to the development of wind power on land. I and the government have taken this seriously, and we are therefore promoting a number of publishers to change and tighten up the way we grant concessions. Although wind power is gradually an important part of Norwegian power generation, the hydropower is the backbone of the Norwegian energy system. The hydropower provides competitive conditions for Norwegian industry. That's what it's going to be. Therefore, the government also promotes proposals to make changes in the way the government taxes investments in hydropower. The changes have been well received by both industry and others. It has been a challenging year to be an oil and energy minister, but also very rewarding. In such demanding times, cooperation is very important, and I am therefore pleased that the good cooperation on this budget with our former government partner Progress Party, but also for the broad consensus we often manage to concentrate on important issues in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1156	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1161	In the case of Norwegian exports of oil and gas, several important differences exist between the two products. One of them is that oil goes to the world and gas goes to Europe. That is why it is particularly important that we keep an eye on what is happening in Europe right now in the field of natural gas. There has been a massive energy transition in Europe in recent years. The coal share has fallen sharply, and both renewable and gas, not least Norwegian gas, have contributed to the release of coal, and I fully agree with those who say that as long as Europe needs gas, it can well come from Norway. But what's happening now is you see that the flood lights are starting to move towards the natural gas. In the last few days, we have heard that projects of common interest will no longer finance dedicated infrastructure for either oil or gas. They say gas demand is going to go down by 30 pst. in 2030 and downwards to zero in 2050. This requires replacing the gas with zero-emission gases. Is Norwegian gas policy in line with the signals now coming from Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1168	There is no doubt that both Norway, the world and not least Europe are facing a very large energy transition. I think Norway is well equipped to participate in that transition. I think it's too early to predict how the gas market is going to evolve in Europe, but there's no doubt in my mind that they're going to need as well as want to use Norwegian gas in a future perspective. But of course, we have to follow developments closely, and we do. Another thing that benefits the Norwegian gas is that we already have a well-developed infrastructure. Many of it can probably be converted to also export hydrogen. What we've done now with seagoing Longships is a significant step in that direction, in order to realize such a commitment. There is no doubt that we are supporting the EU Green Deal, but there are still a lot of different things, given what is going to be the actual policy content of this. I think we're going to follow it closely, and we're well equipped to meet it, and we have a lot of opportunities, which is also here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1175	I'm glad we're going to follow this closely, I think that's very wise, and I think it's wise that we all do. For this reason, not only the government is challenging, but all those who are concerned about these issues in Norway. Things change quickly, and it makes sense to have a wise conversation about what this looks like. My question is based on the fact that the Norwegian story of Europe's gas needs and the European story of Europe's gas needs was consistent up to about a year ago, but now they have begun to deviate quite strongly, because the focus is now much more on decarbonising the sectors that have used gas to date. Then the question is, are we in the process of making the replacement products? We are happy for Longships and happy for the focus on hydrogen, but we are on track to make sure that we position ourselves to win in the competition for what comes after the gas, for example. emission-free gases such as hydrogen? Or have we come back a little bit in relation to what is happening in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1182	I agree with the intention of the representative's question, that is that concern, and therefore I believe that the efforts we have, among other things. in this state budget, is important in that way, not least the promise we are now looking at hydrogen. We delivered a hydrogen strategy before the summer, and we have said that we are going to follow it up with a road map in a notified staging message. We've allocated 100 million. kr only in this budget to develop nodes. Because on hydrogen it was quite a long time about a chicken or egg situation: how are you going to get up production? Then you also have to have a place to deliver it to. After all, the government has also said that we want to impose hydrogen on the ferry link in West Fjord, which will be significant, and which will also support production. That's what's important now, that we're at the ball and make sure that we're actually developing further the amazing resources we already have to meet the need that comes in the future. If there's one thing we know at least about Europe's hydrogen or gas needs – or what you want to point to – then it's that they're going to need a lot of it. They're probably also going to need imports for a long time, I think, of natural gas, but also of pure hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1189	In repeated rounds, we have challenged the government on the consequences of electrification of Norwegian pedestal. Now we have seen, based on climate change, that we can implement e.g. reforestation to 50 kr per tonne, carbon bond in soil through biocoal to less than 500 kr per tonne, Longship to approx. NOK 1000 per tonne or electrification of the cap to NOK 8000 per tonne for the most expensive projects. However, when one is electrifying the socket from a country, it is estimated that it will be required – the Council of State would have to correct the speech if it is wrong – 12–15 TWh. Then the question is, how can one manage to implement it without a large-scale expansion of wind power on land, and on what extent should such wind power expansion be possible if the bulk of the collapse would be achieved by a full electrification of the Norwegian base?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1196	There is no doubt that we will need significant amounts of renewable energy in the future, also more. As of today and in the near future, we're going to have a surplus of power, but if we're going to achieve the goals we've set ourselves to electrify society – not just the base, but many different areas – to achieve our climate goals, we're going to need power. I have not registered that the Progress Party is against all the new expansion of wind power on land. I think we need to have a more moderate expansion, but we should also be able to have some more wind power expansion in the future, where it is desired locally, and where it is also in line with the objectives we have set for nature. I think we have to remember what's the point of this. We need to electrify the socket if we are to achieve our climate goals, and if we are to have a production in the future that imposes stricter climate requirements, where emissions have to drop, not only in Norway, but also globally. I want us to be able to continue delivering oil and gas in that future picture. I don't think forest planting is going to solve that challenge. I believe that we must also have measures that target the petroleum sector in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1203	I note that there is no concrete response to how much wind power needs to be developed this time, and the reason why it is of course significant. The EU is now also saying, through its new classification system for resilient finance, that actions such as these will not be viable. electrification of the socket. Based on experience, few things are easier to turn Right than when the EU actually decides for something. The question is how much the Progress Party can achieve with this argument. Does the EU's new classification contribute to the reassessment of this position by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1208	With regard to the classification that the representative is in, I would first like to say that there are no sustainability requirements that explicitly indicate that electrification will not be part of this. It remains to be seen. There is no doubt that the government is following this process closely. There are several things that lie here, to which we have comments, not least regarding hydropower, which I assume the representative agrees that is sustainable and green and something we should have more of, but also there we have seen that there are things we have to follow up from the Norwegian side to take care of Norwegian interests. The hydropower is the backbone of our system, and when the representative is concerned about the development of the production of power, it's at least very good, I think, that the government now, and with the budgetary unity we've got together, facilitates that we should be able to invest more in hydropower and actually trigger the investments that are good, that expand where possible, and that also upgrade, so we get more power out. Of course, we must follow the process of the European Union closely, but now there is nothing to suggest that this will not be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1215	This state budget does not take seriously the challenges of flooding. NVE and KS have for many years warned against the consequences of even more extreme weather. What is the explanation that the government refuses to address the major challenges in this area? And how much will it cost all the time to be on arrears? Why does the government not want to invest in better flood and scaffolding in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1221	It's not right that the government won't invest in it. On the contrary, let's do that. We've maintained a high level of these appropriations in all the years we've been in government, considerably higher than what was the case under the red-green government. But it's also true, as the representative has it, that the need is very great, and we know that it's going to be bigger and bigger in the future as well. Of course, prevention is much better than repairing the damage afterwards. So this we have a high pressure on, but the need is so great that you'll never be able to solve it over a single state budget. The NVE has mapped insurance measures up to 4 billion. kr. I haven't seen it in the Central Party's alternative budget either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1226	I think both the Council of State and I agree that carbon capture and storage are crucial to avoiding the most disastrous consequences of the climate crisis. Then the government has submitted its big message about Longships and promised to secure one of the carbon capture plants that have come a long way in planning, namely what is in Brevik. In the case of the catchment facility of Oslo, Fortum, and the waste facility of Oslo, it has been made dependent on EU support. We now know that there are very many applications for the EU Innovation Fund. The possibility of support is limited, and my question to the Council of State is: What is the message of the Council of State to Oslo and Fortum if the EU rejects the application?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1233	There is no doubt that the Fortum project is also a good project. I've also said that several times. That's also why the government actually says that we want to keep going with 3 billion. if Fortum were to receive grants from the EU or other sources. But that's not just the money this is about. It is of its own value that the EU is also involved in financing this project. In addition, for Norway, learning about this significant investment is well as great in one facility as it would be for two. Then we have to think, what is the overall goal of the Norwegian CCS project? It is that it should have a global impact, it is that others should follow suit. The biggest risk for Langskip is not that we are unable to keep the costs or implement the project, or that the technology is not good enough. The fact that no other country wants to. So that the EU is involved and also putting money behind the words they themselves have said about CCS, I think it's important. I think Fortum has a good chance of getting to it. It is a mature, good project that I believe the European Union will also look gentle on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1240	I want to ask the Council of State a question about something I sincerely wonder about. We now have a government that, both ideologically and in practice, is committed to being business neutral, that is, not to subsidize and support individual industries and technologies, because it has to be up to the market. But then we're in a situation where everyone knows the oil age is on the verge. This has also been stated clearly by the Prime Minister, yet the Prime Minister expects revenue for some decades to come. But now the oil industry is going crazyly subsidized, that is, it's getting huge tax credits, and now it's also receiving direct subsidies – they're probably estimated at about 7 billion. kr – after the oil tax package in spring, which became even more fierce after the negotiations with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party. The United Kingdom is an example of a country that has started with marine wind support schemes, precisely in order to get both jobs and industry into operation in its maritime wind farm, and they also have called for many of the tasks to have British labour. Why is the government so unwilling to come up with support schemes such as this? differences contracts, as the United Kingdom has done for sea winds?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1247	I understand that the representative sincerely wonders about it. But I think we have discussed this so many times that I still find it strange that the representative is wondering why I think it is right to facilitate that an industry that is Norway's most important and largest – and which is undoubtedly very profitable for Norway – is something we should also help keep the wheels going when things are difficult, just as we have done for very many other industries. The oil and gas industries are examples of this. And it's not that it's unprofitable: searching in all the Norwegian sea areas has been profitable in the last 20 years. So I know that we are going into a future that is going to look different, but the Norwegian base is still very robust. There's also a difference in substance when the representative points out why we don't do what we do in the United Kingdom. We have quantities of renewable energy. We do not have the great need of some other European countries to produce more renewable energy, to extract fossil fuels from their energy mix. This is why it is, of course, more beneficial for countries that need it, to invest in sea wind, but in Norway the situation is quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1254	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1259	The Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are going down. In February, Norway reinforced its climate change objective under the Paris Agreement as the third country in the world and the first Western Games. On Friday, the European Union did the same. Although the pandemic predominates both the budget, the media image and the political debate, the fight against climate change and the fight to stop the long-term crisis we all face. The state budget to be adopted by the Storing takes another step in the right direction, with reduced emissions and increased value creation. The largest climate effort in the budget for 2021 is Langskip. With this commitment to carbon capture and storage, we're going to go ahead in the world on a technology that will be absolutely necessary to achieve the climate measurement, not least to achieve the goal of working globally to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. The size now also provides support for investments in rail and collective, which are record high, more money for large collective projects, more money for urban growth agreements, an increase of 4.1 billion. kr for railway investments. That's climate policy. That's the big thing -- it's the expensive project at a cement factory that can cut 400,000 tonnes of CO2. But it is also the small thing in everyday life that, in sum, is very important – that a person in Bergen chooses to take the City Railway instead of driving a car. The sum of what's big and what's small is what makes us able to achieve our climate measurements. Through Enova, we cut emissions into small and large quantities. We continue to strengthen Enova – permissions 3,3 billion. kr in the budget for the following year. That's an increase of 1.6 billion. kr from 2013. Enova is also an important part of the green transition we're going through on the way out of the coronary crisis. In the Phase 3 package, which the Stortinge treats earlier this year, we allow 2 billion. kr extra to them, targeted for projects and technology investments especially in industry. The result of the efforts made by the Stortinget is that there are now more than a hundred industrial projects across the country that have been allocated funds through Enova’s support measures since the summer. Next year, we're going into a new agreement period with them. The government will sharpen Enova as a climate agent, so that we develop and phase a zero-emission technology in all sectors. This means a major focus on non-quota emissions, not least in the transport sector, as well as contributing to the necessary technological developments in all sectors by 2030. We are strengthening the work on green shipping. The maritime sector is a good example of what we need more: climate policies that cut emissions and create jobs. The ambition is clear: we're going to halve emissions from domestic shipping and fishing by 2030. We shall stimulate low and zero emission solutions in all vessel categories. For this reason, the government proposes to continue the phase-in system for speedboats in county councils of 80 million. NOK 2021. We'll allow 25 million. kr for the continuation of the green shipping programme, etc. When we are about to make a big transition, it is necessary that we give priority to research and innovation. The government suggests that you increase your permissions to do so, for example: in land use, sustainable cities, low and zero emission technologies, etc. We're going to take care of Norwegian nature. The government prioritizes about 2.4 billion. kr annually to take care of the natural disaster. In 2021, we will increase the number of permits, target the funds, and take action to improve the state of the environment in Norway. It includes the implementation of our whole-society plan for Oslofjorden, care in protected areas, increased efforts to combat environmental crime, support for municipalities, etc. We're going to bet on forest protection, we're going to bet on outdoors, we're going to do targeted clean-up efforts to make up for old sins. For example, we strengthen our efforts to clean up the polluted seabed. Now it's Hammerfest Harbor that's on the move. The mass will be removed, landfilled and form new foundations for new fast-moving and new fishing berths, which is an important transport project that makes this a proper cheek egg. Then I am glad that we have put in place a number of large and small investments that are important also for climate change, for preparedness for extreme weather, for example. that a new weather radar is being assigned on the Finnmark range. It will monitor precipitation throughout Finnmark. It's an important traveler to alert extreme weather and alert the flame. The world is facing a climate and natural crisis. It's a global challenge that affects us, and we have to solve it. Norwegian glaciers melt, as well as burning in the rainforest. Our work for the rainforest continued. We're going to allow $3.1 billion. kr to it. And we take the responsibility for the climate and nature that Norway should take, both here at home and out. With this state budget, we strengthen our efforts, so that we take care of the earth we live on, for future generations. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1297	I thought it was interesting to hear the article. It was also very good that the Council of State is busy with Enova and the bet there. Business needs us to be clear about ordering. The Labour Party has put in this budget a circular economy scheme for Enova, and we also want to challenge the government on how to deal with both the strategy that the Stortinget has asked for, which we have known has been subjected to a number of times, and what is going on in concrete terms. Norway is just 2.4 pst. recycled – The Netherlands is 24,5 pst. recycled. Sweden and Denmark have their plans for the circular economy. We need to become much clearer about what kind of policy is going to come about this. I have a specific question for the Council of State: how will Norway deal with the key objectives we are covered by the EEA Agreement, and how will we increase the gap between Norway and the EU in view of the pace of this initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1304	Circular economy is very central to the government's work, and it will do it in the future as well. We're working on a strategy for just this, which is on the way. Unfortunately, he's a little late, but we're getting close to that work, and we've got a very good base of expertise through the reports we've received and that we've ordered through the fall. This does not mean that the work on the circular economy is still pending a longer-term strategy, but, on the contrary, more funds have been allocated to circular economic action over the years. In the previous crisis packages, funds are allowed for it. The money is put to work. That's good. We also propose to allow money for the next year to follow-up with a number of important measures. And so it's going to say, and I think it's important that the circular economy isn't just about giving money to different programs. It's probably so much, not to say even more, to make demands on product design. It is about setting requirements for recycling for good systems, changing the regulation for reuse of building masses, etc. This is an extensive work, and therefore we need a comprehensive strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1311	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm busy looking at the whole value chain. Looking at the circular economy and comparing it with what is happening in the budget, we have now received a CO 2 tax on combustion plants. I very much agree that it should be a whip when you are involved and contribute to emissions. But how are we going to find justice in relation to the value chain we have? Designers and manufacturers of products should be highly responsible for the combustion at the end of the product life phase. So my question is whether the government and the Council of State, Rotevatn, are interested in looking a little bit more into how to get more fair in terms of this CO 2 tax for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1325	I am pleased that from next year we will introduce a CO 2 tax for incineration as well. It's part of the government's systematic work over several years where we've got a hole in the system, where a number of industries and sectors were excluded from paying for their emissions. It shouldn't be like that. That's why we've got them close systematically, for example. for fishing last year and waste incineration for next year. So it's a positive grip, which I hope the Labour Party supports. Then, of course, the waste management system is built up in such a way that one has producer responsibility, agreements, etc. So that one gets a cost at the end of this, will also reproduce in the system and make it pay more to bring down the amount of waste, recycle more and handle it better. At the same time, we must also make stricter demands, for example. to the amount of disposable packaging recycled — it is too small today. There we've said that we're going to raise the demand for that in the future. In sum, it gives us a more circular economy, where everyone has to pay for their emissions, and where it'll pay to use resources more efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1335	The EU announces this weekend that it will increase its climate ambition to 55 p.m. Nevertheless, it seems that they make changes in the way they book the recording of forests. Point 1: Can the Council of State confirm that this results in correctness? And point 2: What does it possibly mean for Norway's ability to credit increased uptake of our forests, through the common harmonisation we have with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1340	Let me start by saying that I am very happy that the EU will increase its climate target to 55 pst on Friday. We have that in the government platform that we are for one to do, and it has both signed and Prime Minister Erna Solberg coming up to meet our people-elects in the EU system several times over the years. So we're glad one does. But it is also right, as the representative Dale says, that one thing is that the EU has strengthened its target from 40 p.m. 55 pst, but they've also changed the way they're calculating it, and now they're going to figure out the forest and the area in that measure. I have to say that is something I'm initially more critical of, because that means that in reality the goal is something lower than 55 pst. There is also one reason why many in this room have said that Norway must have only the same goal as the EU, I have said that we are forced to study a little what this actually means, because it is not yet clear exactly how the EU will calculate forest. I have understood that it will be ready before New Year, when they will notify updated NDCs. I think we should be allowed to study it carefully, because there is no doubt that it is an objective that we should have the same climate ambitions as the European Union. But we also need to avoid a situation where we may weaken the Norwegian target, which is a strong target.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1347	There's good lines here now. We're about to have, or more correctly, a new president in the United States. The invading Joe Biden has already been out saying that he wants to promote a proposal for a ban on oil drilling in the Arctic. The Labour Party and Espen Barth Eide have been out saying that they will review this proposal. They just have to figure out where the Arctic is. My question to the Left and to the Government is: Will the Left and Government go out actively, refer to the Barents Sea Management Plan and reject such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1354	I think, first of all, we're going to assume that Joe Biden will be president of the United States pretty soon. Secondly, I think we should wait to decide on a possible proposal on what is going to happen in the Arctic before we see what the proposal is about. We know a little bit about that yet. But I think it's worth remembering that Norway – at least as far as I know – is the only country that operates oil in the Arctic, and has seen a limit on where it's going to happen. That boundary is at the icebergsona and has been moved south under this government, nearly 55,000 square kilometers farther south. That's what I think is good. And then I hope that Joe Biden and the new American administration will have as active an climate policy as possible, that they will re-enter the Paris Agreement, and that they will deliver a new goal after the Paris Agreement, which, hopefully, is ambitious. And then we're going to have to take it from there. Anyway, I think it's very positive that we get a United States that's more on the path in international climate policy. There is an important commitment to getting the Paris Agreement in place. It will be important in the future, together with what the EU is doing, and with what China and other major emissions nations are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1363	It looks like the state council has to re-prioritize quite a lot of money in this state budget to drive and transport wolves around the country by helicopter. Last week, the Storting gave an instruction to the government that the wolf zone could not be extended, as this government has done to care for the much-described Elgå wolf. The Storting also asked for the license hunt outside the zone to start again from 15 December, i.e. tomorrow. My question to the Council of State is whether there will be a license hunt tomorrow in the area that has been snorted by the wolf zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1368	Firstly, the State's nature agency has a good budget to deal with its important work on predators. They have even been strengthened through committee work so that they get more money for next year. I think we should all be happy about that. We and Stortinget are concerned that we should pursue an active policy, among other things. to extract predators effectively when doing damage. When it comes to the decision to which it is referred, I have followed it up as quickly as possible. Last week, before the weekend, I made two decisions. The one thing was to convert the idea of having a screened zone, the other was to move the two wolves that I perceived very clearly through the debate in Stortinget that the bulk of the population was busy not to be shot, and that we were going to take care of them. I have to try to do both, and there is good hope that we will get there. So there's a lot of things a government council has to do, and some things a government council doesn't have to do, for example. How much and how fast it is. It's important to find the wolves at all. But as far as I know, it has begun to snow up there now, and it gives good hope for good tracking conditions and thus moving as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1377	The government's announced climate announcement will come in New Year's. When the government in this period should have made a broad deal in the Storting on important matters, they have first and foremost addressed their former alliance partner in the government, the Progress Party. Today we have heard a Progress Party that is not particularly interested in putting in place important major cuts in the emissions of Norwegian greenhouse gases. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to bring about a broad climate settlement in the United Kingdom with those parties that want an ambitious climate policy, or will the Council of State and the Government try first and foremost to seek cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1386	First of all, I'm not completely in agreement with the history description here. When there have been large, broad unity in Stortinget in recent years, for example. Well, around some of the crisis packages, it's not like the government's just talking to the Progress Party, we've been talking to a lot of parties and getting broad consensus, and that's good. When it comes to the climate plan, I'm going to say the same thing now that I've actually answered repeated questions very many times, and that's that I'm too broad a number as possible around climate policy. That's great. The important thing is the level of ambition and that one agrees on measures that target us under our Paris commitments. That's the scale. We have to do that. Then I record that among the opposition parts there is a certain stretch of the layer in different directions. On the red-green side, there is a disagreement as to whether or not to increase the CO 2 tax, whether to increase the cost of diesel or petrol, whether to have more expensive electric cars or not, whether to use ants or not, etc. The Progress Party, on the other hand, also has some points of view that I do not always agree with them, but now they have some with us on a budget that will contribute to significant spillovers next year, including the largest climate investment in Norwegian industry ever, so I have some good hope that this will be a good advice on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1398	The Sabima organisation has not put much in between once they have criticised the government's natural policy. It is a hugely disappointing state budget that has been presented in terms of Norwegian nature, and especially in the case of natural restoration, there is every reason to be disappointed. The government has promised to restore 15 pst. in Norway, but has not provided a single penny for that work in 2021. It's kind of the same setting they've had to save the insects in Norway. They ask the trade unions to provide measures, provided that it will not cost another penny. And this is in addition to the fact that the government has made it easier for Norwegian municipalities to build up Norwegian nature, not only protected nature, as the government itself is helping to build down through its motorway projects, but also the coastal zone and food land. So my question is, how are we going to be able to restore 15 pst? by nature by 2025, without anyone paying for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1407	Because someone's paying for it. We have a good commitment to the restoration of nature, including: of major wetlands, in the budget for next year. In sum, we have a natural budget where we're going to spend 2.4 billion. kr to take care of nature. It is not small money, and it is a budget that has been well managed in recent years, and is strengthened in a number of important aspects. For example, authorisations for forest protection have increased by 88 pst., we have strengthened the opportunities for aquatic environmental action, to take care of endangered species and nature types, and we have created new protection areas in flang – in sum, under this government, protection has been created in an area larger than old Westfold states. It is important: new national parks, new marine protected areas are double, new forest areas etc. As far as climate and environment ministers are concerned, I could always wish for an even greater budget to do important restoration work, for example for ants. But I have to admit that the current budget is solid. This will enable us to manage the important projects we will carry out in the future. I think it's good for the government, but it's good for nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1415	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1422	After this budget harvest, it is tempting to say that the government is pushing ahead with the EU in order to achieve the climate objectives. We are still behind the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and we are in line with our own targets of 50 pst material recycling. by 2020. We are behind the EU in terms of the circular economy, and we must focus on the EU supporting carbon capture and the storage project on Klemetsrud. We are the country in the OECD with the weakest development related to exports, and we lack a national climate budget because the government does not focus on it. It's a dark truth. We have to ask ourselves what is the reason why a country that Norway is following in these areas. It is not because we lack natural resources or do not have the skills to be in the front line – it is because there is no clear political intervention that produces the desired result. It doesn't just keep setting goals, one must have action behind. The Labour Party has presented the climate budget four years in a row now. For 2021, we have been particularly involved in the non-quota sector. It is mainly covered by transport, agriculture, waste and construction. The current non-quota sector target is an emission cut of 40 pst. by 2030 compared to the 2005 level. If it is to be increased to 55 pst, as we want, emissions must be cut by 33 million tonnes overall over the 10-year period from 2021 to 2030. The Workers' Party will not only achieve this, but over-fulfill it. In the emissions budget, we have a long list of sandwiches of different measures, which will provide 34.29 million tonnes in cuts. We have submitted a separate export package, which will raise the stake on Norwegian exports. We have to assert ourselves better if we are to secure income in order to get our own welfare level at the level we now have. We've put in a specific program in Enova to bet on the circular economy. At the same time as we are to have a policy that takes care of the world, we must also create new jobs, secure jobs. It increases the importance of entering new segments, where we can use our natural resources in a sustainable way and build on an industrial competence that we have built up over 100 years. We need to new industrialise by investing in circular economy, ocean winds, carbon capture and storage, green shipping and hydrogen. And we have to be able to build an industrial identity that makes it attractive for Norwegian workers to work there. We need to be able to set the policy framework and budget in order to achieve this. A lot of things are at stake. I'm absolutely sure there are a lot of young people who want to be part of an industry effort that is environmentally friendly and that can help make it interesting to get into the districts. That's an important investment for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1433	When we started with this ageing period, one of the first meetings I had, at NCE Maritime CleanTech, was a cluster that has organisations with emission-free shipping in its portfolio. Green shipping is important for greenhouse gas emissions, for energy efficiency improvement and for industry in the West, and it is important for Norway as a nation and the reputation we have as a leading shipping nation in the world. And for a journey these three years have been! At the meeting there were sketched views, hope for the future and the belief in us that shipping would play an important role in the green shift. The history books will be able to tell in a few years that it was during this great period we made quantum leaps both technologically, in our requirements for nutrition, in appropriations, in bets and not least in the industry itself in the might and the will to be team players, where one understands that being first out there is an advantage here. The government has submitted a new maritime survey report, the first in 16 years. How is a clear direction for the maritime policy, which should contribute to good and forward-looking framework conditions for Norwegian maritime industry? The government's ambitions for green shipping are high. By 2030 we will halve emissions from domestic shipping and fishing. It requires increasing innovation and investment across the maritime value chain and enhanced international cooperation. We facilitate and are demanding purchasers of public procurement nationally. In addition, Norway has a leading role in setting requirements for international maritime shipping. Erna Solberg took the initiative on a sea panel consisting of 14 ports. Norway really leads. In the State budget, we continue the borrowing arrangements for ships engaged in short sea shipping and fishing, and we continue the mastering arrangements for ships engaged in short sea shipping and fishing fleets and also include offshore vessels. We have a great deal of climate change on slip-free speedboats and ferries, and we grant additional permits to county municipalities to support the phase-in of low- and zero-emission ferries in the county road network. I heard that the representative Haltbrecken in the general debate was critical of the government's commitment to green shipping. Whenever a choice is made to criticise the government's efforts in this area, a really important argument must have escaped. Because before green shipping, the government has delivered – definitely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1448	The running coronary apanthemia is still not shut down. Vaccines have been developed and approved in such a way that comprehensive vaccination programmes will be implemented. Although emissions are falling below the pandemic, the Labour Party believes it is essential to keep the focus on the climate crisis, the greatest common challenge for humanity. Climate change is leading to very large changes in people's lives, and most likely the consequences will be more severe north as the warming is strongest as one approaches the poles. The climate change we are already recording leads to lasting and dramatic changes for individuals, communities and businesses. In the last winter, sanitation experienced a serious grazing crisis as a direct consequence of weather conditions and rainfall. The baits were covered with ice, which made it difficult for reindeers to get to bed, so that labor-intensive and costly measures had to be taken. Climate change is leading to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall, extreme weather and destruction. So we must be prepared for more frequent floods and escapes. The NVE has an important task of identifying risks and preventing and limiting damage caused by flooding and slipping as a consequence of, among other things. climate change. Many municipalities have not carried out danger zone monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with slip and floods in watercourses. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented. Furthermore, the NVE suggests that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and avalanches. In addition to this, we know that many people who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear. All experience shows that it is wiser and cheaper to prevent than to repair damage in retrospect, which is well documented. Increased appropriations are needed. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to increase the allocations for climate adaptation and flood suppression in addition to the government's proposals. We have to make it easier for the water to find its way into the earth with green, open areas, let trees delay the water and have a wiring network that takes away the precipitation. More rainfall and extreme weather are leading to increased pressures on the water and sewerage sectors, where there is already a major lag in maintenance and upgrading. The Labour Party therefore proposes an increase in climate action and adaptation in municipalities. The working party proposes to strengthen the climate effort by 100 million. SEK, in addition to national road scrapping in the period 2018-2029 of 150 million. kr. We feel there is too much distance between the government's budget and the real need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1463	In 40 years, when my life goes to the end, I'm surrounded by the world's most beautiful grandchildren, and they ask me, Grandma, what did you actually do in the old days? – then I'll tell them what we're doing today. I'm going to tell them about days like today, when we wanted snow for Christmas, but the only thing we got was crying, dark and rainy gentleness, that when I was a child, we had lovely winters with lots of snow, that we watched, stood on skis, built snowmen, but that as I grew older, and their mother was born, disappeared the winter a little after a little, every year, until the winter they knew: gray, dark and rain. Then I'm going to tell about those who were of the age of great-grandmother and great-grandfather, about those who refused to understand the consequences of the chemical changes that humans made in the atmosphere, and that some of them even tried to stop us from doing anything. But then I'm going to tell you that we did something, that despite the skeptics, we might be a little bit slow, but still certainly took the grips that were necessary, that we were thinking about them, our descendants, and the world in which we wanted them to grow up. Because it goes in the right direction. In Norway, we now have the lowest emissions of 27 years. It doesn't go very fast enough, but it happens. And this budget is a huge step in the right direction. Not only do we focus massively on new technologies such as carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and green shipping, we also put heavily on rail, circular economy and hydropower, as well as green and value-creating investments through Nysnø. This state budget represents a record investment in climate and environmental action. The actual increases in the year's budget are over 11 billion. kr. It's massive, and it creates more jobs. Because we need more jobs. The Corona crisis has shown us what society looks like without economic growth. It doesn't look nice. It means permits, bankruptcys and increased leave. The left side dreams to stop economic growth because they think it's a shortcut to stop emissions. That's not right. Our economy has got a bad brake, but the emissions have not been cut accordingly. We need more. We need economic growth. We need to invest in green technologies in order for companies to have profits to invest in climate solutions, and we need to cut enough emissions. It's not the fight for who can spread the billions of climate action, which separates the right and left sides of politics, it's yes or no to growth, to the hope of the future and the dream that your kids' lives will be better than yours. Our climate policy is optimistic. We believe in Norway, in those who are already leading the way, in the entrepreneurs, who are thinking new, and in a future where we still have as good welfare services as today – but at the same time cut emissions. Because we have faith in innovation and that we can change to preserve both Norway and our globe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1478	Both in our alternative budget and in our subsidiary budget agreement with the government, the Progress Party has prioritised schemes related to our business. In these days, it is important both to ensure jobs and to provide opportunities for creating new ones. We have secured the oil industry through previous crisis packages and have had an impact on the medium-term change in the tax system of the oil industry, which has both gained and will affect many thousands of jobs in the petroleum industry through increased investment in the sector. We also strengthen the framework of the Oil Directorate and look forward to allocations of new land to spring, in the 25th concession round. Now we continue to correct the government's policy not only to reverse the cut in net pay, but also to strengthen them beyond the original. The government's proposal came at the worst possible time, with falling oil price and corona. This is not the time to cut or create uncertainty. Now we must create security and predictability, at least for the industries that we intend to live on in the future. Maritime industry is among the most important industries in Norway in both value creation and employment, and an industry throughout the coastal nation of Norway is totally dependent on its functioning. We are faced with many and tough decisions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For the Progress Party, it is important to take decisions that are effective, that deliver results and that do not only contribute to symbols. And there has been a strong willingness in Norway to contribute with new measures. Some measures have produced results, others have not produced results. I'm startled by the reluctance to reverse measures that don't work, that don't reduce emissions, that don't create revenues, but only reduce jobs. One of the main regimes used by the government is the CO 2 tax in the non-quota sector. When we then discovered that this charge affects smaller enterprises with more than twice the level of charges than larger international groups, I am concerned when no one else is worried about either the loss of value or the loss of jobs. A limit was set for smaller businesses to protect them from the big ones. Shipping has also been subject to a CO 2 tax on fuel — as the only country in Europe. As a result, bunkering is largely carried out in all countries other than Norway. In addition to Norway’s loss of money and the global increase in emissions, Norwegian authorities calculate reduced greenhouse gas emissions from ship traffic, which is happening at the same time as our shipping traffic is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1499	We need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 60 pst. by 2030. Everyone who sits here knows that. Then we have to do it in a way that creates jobs that we can live on in the future, not keep betting on what we know we have to stop with. I registered that Westgaard-Halle's representative talked about the grandchildren she might get. Well, I have grandchildren who are big enough today to ask us about this. They're actually able to see that we have to take a much stronger hold, because that's their future. At least they ask of me as a grandmother that I do. That's what SV does. Instead, we are faced with sharp criticism, as if there is someone who does not want to create jobs. The difference between us is between those who still want to risk what's hurting us, and us who have put in great efforts to relieve those who are going to take up the new jobs we're going to live off in the future. I'm from Hedmark, from the Inland. There we have the Norwegian Center of Expertise Heidner Biocluster, we have the Norwegian Wood Cluster, we have the Biovalley bet, which has put on the table a whole series of suggestions on how to straighten this out. SV has proposed those proposals, where we are risking all the entrepreneurs who now want to get up with these green jobs, who are also going to come into the Inland. Now there's a lot of jobs out there. So what are we going to meet with? No, you won't create jobs and make money. Yes, we do! We're just going to make money, but we're going to have zero-emission jobs we can live with, and our grandchildren and grandchildren can live with. We have a lot of suggestions. I'm in charge of the municipal committee. There we propose that competence should be transferred to the local authority sector, so that they can make good decisions also on nature and the environment. There the government will weaken the protection of the coastal zone, by nature and environment, without the knowledge base or competence in the municipalities. We propose that the state should contribute to the transition to zero-emission public transport. It's going to cost some of the transition, but it's giving jobs and very good results on emissions cuts. SV is alone on the proposal. We want the municipal sector to also be able to take its responsibility for the consequences of extreme weather. We make suggestions about it, but we meet with a majority who do not understand and do not take our climate commitments seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1514	When I let myself take the word one more time, it's because I let myself get excited and inspire by the investment in hydrogen and ammonia that this government has. This is an example of how we can build on the skills acquired through the power industry, the maritime sector and the petroleum sector, and at the same time develop new areas where we can create values. The contribution of the State budget for 2021 is historic with a view to supporting the development and establishment of infrastructure that will facilitate the commercial use of hydrogen. This is an energy carrier that has considerable potential to help reduce local, national and global emissions and to generate values for Norwegian business. The government's hydrogen strategy was developed in 2020 and developed with input from industry and industry. Already in the same year, we followed up with money for innovation projects where hydrogen had a central place. The oil and energy minister has now started to create a hydrogen roadmap. This will focus on increasing the number of pilot and demonstration projects with hydrogen and hydrogen-based solutions. In addition, it shall contribute to the establishment of holistic hydrogen value chains, to facilitate the use of hydrogen within new uses and to ensure additional technological developments to reduce cost-reduction production costs and grid systems for cost-reduction scale production. We demand hydrogen use in the maritime sector through ferry contracts in Rogaland and Lofoten, and we support testing centres and individual projects through Enova. Norway is also now joining the European venture for hydrogen innovation and industrial cooperation. We see exciting and almost futuristic projects show up, like the ZEEDS project, hydrogen deliveries to Arctic struts and Eidesvik's Viking Energy, which is going to test out ammonia. The cargo ship HySHIP, which Wilhelmsen has now seen in production, will give us important lessons. We invest in the business community's competence, knowledge and ability to implement this transformation. We believe in the environments that grow in Varanger and Mongstad, in small power plants and in the farming industry. We facilitate innovation and skills jobs in private businesses. Here we record that we're separating ourselves from the other party, which means that the state has to go in to drive development through a state hydrogen company. For the Right, it is not relevant to establish public competition for the private operators. We want to build on the skills of the business community, rather than deplete the skills environment of the private sector. The budget shows this through strategies, promises, road maps, public procurement requirements and the organisation of tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1529	The representative, Eskeland, began her second speech, saying that she dared to take the word again, and then she founded it. The reason I take the floor for the second time is partly because Liv Kari Eskeland did it, but most of all because I think I have a very good suggestion. The Committee on Energy and the Environment agrees that it is important to come up with a solution that meets the power demand while at the same time providing the necessary security of supply without imposing excessive costs on residents and businesses in Longyearbyen. The members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party record that the local government has entered into intentional agreements with Varanger Kraft on the supply of ammonia, and have noted Varanger Kraft's plans for the start-up of the production of green hydrogen and ammonia in Berlevåg in Finnmark. The four lots have the following draft decisions: ‘The government asks the Government to promote a case for the Storting on how the energy supply in Longyearbyen can quickly be made fossil-free.’ The working party believes that it is important to come up with a good solution for the Svalbard community. The Workers' Party also believes that Varanger Kraft's project in Berlevåg is forward-looking, innovative and well-rooted locally, and that it is an important project to continue the green shift. So we hope that as much as possible can be behind that wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1543	This autumn, the Workers' Party has submitted two alternative State budgets. It's a budget of money, which shows how we prioritise work and well-being in front of tax cuts, and then it's an climate budget, which shows how we're going to cut our emissions by 2030. Emissions are as limited a resource as money is. If we win the next fall, we will also do this from the government position, present our own climate budgets. Often it is said that you live in a time of fate, but in a few areas it is more true than in climate policy, because there we really live in a time of fate. We have a few years to cut emissions to avoid catastrophic changes. But if we're to avoid it, it has to be done now. That is why it was very good that EU prime ministers last week were able to agree on an escalated climate target. Similarly, I would say that the signals we received from the Norwegian Government that week were bad. First, the climate minister said that the government does not agree; therefore, they break their promise to provide a climate message during the year. So we have to wait until next year before we get the message we've been waiting for so many years. So the prime minister says this weekend that correcting our goals, as all the other European countries have done, is not current policy by the Norwegian side. This is before the government has gone to what has become their preferred partner in climate policy, the Progress Party. Climate change does not have time to wait for a slow government. That is why we need a government that cuts emissions, creating thousands of jobs, which has an active state that will manage development and invest in Norwegian jobs, in hydrogen, in carbon capture and storage, in circular economy, in sea winds, in shipping and in all the other areas where Norway has so much opportunities. The working party will reconcile the requirements and impatience of climate strikers with the competence and experience of women and men in dresses. The workers' party's climate policy is green because it cuts the emissions, and then it's red because it does it in a fair way that doesn't increase the differences between people, but on the contrary we get a society with less differences between people. Let me end by saying that we're going to do the emissions nationally. At the same time, Norway shall contribute more internationally. We know that one of the major problems in international climate policy is that the rich countries contribute too little. Under this government, Norway has cut dramatically in support of renewable energy, which was a major effort under the red-green government. Once again, we've had a huge cut in renewable energy, and in comparison with the Progress Party, it's also cut 200 million. kr to the UN Green Climate Fund. It's a contradiction to what we say internationally. We say we're going to increase, and then we're going to cut instead. That this has passed under a Christian People's Party Council, explains why that party is running around on 2 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1558	Norwegian exports have been at rest for almost 20 years while world trade has doubled. Norway has the weakest development in all OECD countries. In the last year, the Korona crisis, along with falls in the oil price, has hit the Norwegian economy twice. In many of the new growth areas, such as hydrogen, CCS and circular economy, new technologies still need to be developed. We need new business models and new value chains up to different end-users. We also need to ensure that as much as possible of value creation and employment benefits Norwegian society. We're in a hurry to speed up the transition. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is not enough just to leave it to market forces. We need an ambitious and concrete policy on marine wind and hydrogen that gives a clear direction to shift both technology development and investment in a new direction. Developments are rapid, and Norway will be involved in value creation, we have no time to lose. The country must use its market power to develop new markets. The state must also enter parts of the value chain where the private is not mature enough. And the state must contribute to the development of a domestic market, so that Norwegian technology is tested. It is also important that the concession processes ensure the breadth of actors. We need more knowledge and an offensive commitment to research. Then I notice that the committee leader is still talking about the TCM, Technology Centre Mongstad, as a magpie or a moon landing, but it has turned out that TCM has evolved to be the global leading research center on just catching. The need for renewable energy is increasing rapidly, much faster than predicted. We are on arrears in the development of transmission capacity. The mountain area is probably the best example, unfortunately, of the fact that businesses in the last year have got no from the state, precisely because you have no transfer capacity, and it will take between five and ten years to build it up. One of the safest things we know about conversion is how important it is to bring the people with them on change. There is special security for work, but also for housing, and in Norway the electricity bill is crucial. It is therefore strange that the government has not followed up the decision to submit a plan to achieve the target of 10 TWh energy saving in construction by 2030. What we have seen from the Swedes is that they have just raised this area and said that they will invest in energy saving in housing laws. The same is true in Norway, with dwellings built in the 1950s and 1960s. It also gives you a combination of getting more employment. People see that the electricity bill is being reduced, that climate change just increases the value of their own homes, and that they can contribute themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1574	This weekend, I was on a ski trip. It wasn't life's first ski trip, and it wasn't exactly Marit Bjørgen, but it was a ski trip. By 2020, we have all seen how important nature and open-air life are to the North. When society shut down, nature remained open. There has been a lot we haven't been able to do in the last year, but going on tour has been encouraged by the government, and the outdoor organisations have mobilized. They've been thinking new things about activities and infectious diseases. And the Nordics have taken the call. There have been an estimated 150 million trips only during the summer months, and more than 1.5 million Nordics slept outside. In the budget, the government cut the appropriations for outdoor life by several million dollars. As if that were not enough, they got the support of the Progress Party to cut even more in the negotiations with them. Nevertheless, the Minister for Climate and Environment is saying that outdoor life is a priority. This happens at the same time that government makes it easier to build up important open-air areas, easier to build down the beach zone. The government’s recipe for increased outdoor investment is less money and more building up important outdoor areas. In the SV's alternative budget, we're adding more money to the outdoors. We also spend more money on the purchase of important outdoor properties, especially along the coast. We will also strengthen the ability of the municipalities to take up the fight against the strong interests that build down the beach zone. These are important areas that people should also be able to use in the future for healthful outdoors and to draw inspiration from the fight to preserve nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1589	We are approaching the end of this budget debate. I would like to refer to the line of the representative Sandra Borch to cut dramatically for outdoor purposes, and the contribution of the representative Haltbrecken now. It was pointed out that government parts cut 4 million. kr for outdoor use. What we're doing is redistributing. And that's actually 3 million. NOK, not 4 million. kr. 1.2 million. kr goes to Trillemarka. The entire Committee has agreed for several years that it is important for them to have a visitation and coniferous protection centre. I'm going to use 0.8 million. SEK to Villakssenteret, and 1 million. kr Oslofjorden's Outdoor Council. So the outdoor purposes are most respected in that re-prioritisation. The open-air item has also increased significantly by a majority of the Left in the last seven years. The representative Karin Andersen gave us a visit and pointed at NCE Heidner and Norwegian Wood Cluster in Hedmark. I come from Raufoss and Inland myself. NCE Raufoss came under the instrumentation under Bondevik I and became catapult in 2017, under Solberg II. All of these have been supported by the instrument set up by civil governments. Norwegian Wood Cluster became the arena centre three weeks ago, also through the Innovation Norway scheme, and Biovalley has now carried out a report. Unfortunately, it says that there are many small municipalities in the Inland region, and that they do not have an apparatus to ensure the development of nutrition in the format that is going to take place, so we need to make some structural changes, among other things. So a greeting back to the municipal committee: the climate rate has continued and strengthened further, so there are all the chances for municipalities that will contribute to the transition, to hang on. There are many municipalities that have good projects out there now. I would like to point out to the Nordic countries, because we are among the top seven on the list – if you take Finland, at least among the top ten – over the green cluster in Europe. We have important financial markets, and there are large pension funds looking for projects to invest in. The Norwegian oil fund is out in the world and invests a lot. Similarly, many people come to Norway with their pension funds or other funds to invest with us. We have Vattenfall, Ørsted and Next. We also have giants, like Fortum, who are involved in the CCS. We have a lot to contribute to, and we also have to facilitate that. The representative Aukrast was within the climate targets – so we cut the emissions. State Council Rotevatn said it's important that we know what the 55 pst. The cuts in the EU are before we set the same targets in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1604	2020 has been a special year for many, just as the budget debate today has been special in many ways. There are few debates, on some, few political issues, on something, where ambitions, objectives and decisions are being taken to ensure the consistency of the same actions. Today, we've heard a single Norwegian left-hand side where all they're saying is that ambitions have to rise. The consequences of this are none of them that can do any good. But Norwegian jobs can be harmful, as a force-intensive industry, which we have along the entire West Coast. Take, for example: Hydro Karmøy - a glittering example. Establishment increases Norwegian point emissions by approx. 1 million tonnes, but they reduce global emissions. Are we no longer going to afford the kind of business start-ups in Norway because climate ambitions and domestic spill-outs are more important than the consequences of our policies? When we belong to the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environmental Party of the Greens, it sounds like the answer is a noisy yes, when it should have been no. Of course, we will contribute to new industrial workplaces in Norway, including in the power-intensive industry, when it both helps to increase Norwegian value creation and secure Norwegian jobs and at the same time helps to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. When the point is a percentage with which one can beat each other in the head, instead of showing the consequences of different policy choices, this debate is happening completely – now as well. We do not know the consequences and arrangements of the individual measures taken by the Climate Action. We hope that the climate message will provide better answers than climate change, such as: did not address the risk of carbon leakage when assessing some measures. Let's hope so. But quite apart from the fact that the majority of the parties here in the hall, right it almost out, are willing to initiate the measures almost whatever the consequences would be for Norwegian companies. We hope 2021 will be better in many ways – including the Norwegian climate debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1617	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1622	We have just witnessed an article from the party that must be said to be perhaps the greatest threat to the jobs of the future in Norway, the party that refuses to take over the great climate change the world is facing, the party that will continue to pump up oil and gas long after it has also become unprofitable. I would encourage the representative Dale to learn from the story of a city like Arendal. Arendal was a city that lived well during the sailing season and was an important city in the shipping nation of Norway at the time. Too late, Arendal realized that the time of the sails had passed, and that it was the steamboats that began to come. Arendal was as a result of it for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1629	I was also inspired by the representative Dale's comments on a brief comment on the issue of percentages. I think it's important to take over that we've already come into a quite different world when over 70 pst. of the world's gross domestic product is now produced in countries that have said, or in the near future will say that they will have 55 pst. cut by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. 2030 is really just an intermediate station. The point is that the world has agreed to cut emissions down to the level that we can capture, net zero or carbon neutral. Given not being in that direction then -- this is not something we just say because we have to take our share of responsibility; it's because we will be hanging out if we don't make sure ourselves develop the solutions in all sectors, in all sectors, in transport, in industry, in construction and in construction, in how we live and live, and how we produce and eat food, which makes us do this goal. That is why we should have clear objectives, and even more important than targets, that we should actually also make concrete plans, sector by sector, in order to achieve those objectives. That's why I'm glad a very large majority in this room agrees that that makes sense. It doesn't just make sense for the climate, it also makes sense for Norwegian jobs, that we should have something to live on in the future. For the old solutions will no longer work. We have to arrest the new ones now. I want to say something that might be a little daring to say in this room: there are intelligent lives in other countries. They also see the trend. It could be that they beat us in the competition if we're not ambitious. That's what we want to be now. We need to re-industrialise Norway for a greener future, also in order to hit the markets of the future in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1638	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1655	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1672	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Education and Research Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 20 and 21 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1703	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1712	Every harvest begins tens of thousands in kindergarten, in primary, secondary, apprenticeship or higher education. Our goal as politicians is to make sure that as many of them as possible get through kindergarten and education in a good way, that they get a job, and that they have the opportunity to work well in society. To do this, we depend on the efforts of all the employees who work in the sector for which we are responsible. They're the ones who get everyday walking around, whether they work like teachers, school managers, cleaners, watchmasters, assistants or anything else. These are people who deserve to boast, and who especially deserve it in the Corona Year 2020, so thank you for the job you do. The party of progress went out of government in winter. We've been in government for over six years, and we're proud of much of what we've been doing in the field of education. A professional profession has been launched, in which we have focused on the recruitment of several apprenticeships, on increasing apprenticeship grants, on vocational training and on changing the supply structure to better match the needs of the labour market, in order to mention something. The consequence is that year after year we have made a record in the number of apprenticeships. During our period of government, we have also been involved in and strengthened efforts to combat bullying, we have introduced an absence limit, introduced a teacher's vow, sent record numbers of teachers in continuing education and increasing the number of teachers in the first steps. The results show that the students are more present, they learn more, fewer falls from, the grades get better, and the mob payments have never been measured lower. In the field of education, things went in the right direction with the Progress Party in government, and much of the government has put up in its draft budget, things the Progress Party can't acknowledge. But there's a difference between the parties, and that's why we've created our alternate budget. Before the 2013 elections, the parties were challenged by several media on what they would do for students. The three objectives of the Progress Party were to increase the construction rate to 2000 student housing per year, to introduce 11 months of study support and to link the study support to the basic amount. The fact is that 11 months of student support has been introduced after our time in government, and a student is now paid almost NOK 15 000 more per year. While the average for the construction of student housing was 900 under the red-green, the average was 2,200 a year during the period the Progress Party was in government. We see that the level of ambition has fallen a little bit after we went out, and that it is now being added up to 1,650 student homes a year. The Progress Party will increase this, and in our alternative budget we are proposing 225 new ones. Of the objectives we mentioned before the 2013 elections, it remains for us to link the study support to the basic amount. In our alternative budget, we proposed that study aid should be linked to G and increased in the long term to 1.5G. Unfortunately, we didn't get along with it, but we don't give up. In the Advancement Party, we were not just satisfied with what the government was putting forward. We were shocked at what was happening to private kindergartens. I sat in the hall, and I saw that it was Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner who put it forward, but the message that came out could have been written by the left. In the autumn, the government has targeted the private kindergartens with proposals to cut pension subsidies, cut capital subsidies and proposals to amend the legislation on loans in the House Bank. The cut suggestions aroused a commitment from parents and employees who were very much witnessing. 1000 kindergartens had morning action and protested against the cuts. They feared the quality, that this would lead to a poorer supply for the young, fewer purchases of toys and food, less maintenance, fewer temporary workers, new and worse pensions for employees and, in the worst case, that kindergartens would have to shut down, and that tens of thousands of kindergarten children would be without kindergarten. Fortunately, the Progress Party won with its demand to reverse these cuts, and now the parents can breathe. Alf Prøysen has a strofe that is about that «You shall have a day in the threshing floor standing clean and unused with blank sheets and marker plates, And then you fixed up some bad mistakes from yesterday. [[...]] The Progress Party has now given the government the opportunity to start at 2021 with blank sheets. Let's hope they don't repeat their mistakes from yesterday and make new attempts to exacerbate the daily lives of private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1750	Higher vocational education is important in order to further increase the level of competence of professionals in the private and public sectors. Providing these professional groups with new development opportunities and career paths are important competence measures for each trade union, enterprise and organisation. The vocational education offer has been developed in close contact with the labour market, and the vocational schools experience an increase in the number of applicants. The Labour Party does not have to wait a long time to know that Norway needs the skills offered by the vocational schools, and we will deliver on the escalation plan Stortinget has adopted, with a thousand new vocational schools in 2021. Why will not the Progress Party and the representative Roy Steffensen no longer stand at the big crowd, of which they were part?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1759	The Progress Party was very pleased with the agreement we made with the Workers' Party and the Centre to have a stepping-up plan for higher vocational education. In our alternative state budget, we had stated that there would be a thousand new college places. Unfortunately, before the summer, in the negotiations with the government on the revised national budget, we registered that they did not want to follow the decision of the Stortingen, nor did they follow up the decision of the Stortingen this autumn by submitting what the Stortingen had requested. We think that's very regrettable, but when we've been negotiating with the government parties, we haven't won with our claim for a thousand extra places to study at the colleges. But we haven't given up, and we hope that we can achieve that at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1764	I then record that the Progress Party does not stand by the majority of which they were a part, and that they have prioritised lower taxes on alcohol, snuff and tobacco etc. rather than giving professionals the opportunity to take higher vocational training. Is it the case that the Progress Party has prioritised it before the decision taken by the Stortinget, which the Progress Party was in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1769	I understand that it may be tempting just to pick out individual items and highlight it, but then we might as well say that we have prioritised ensuring that tens of thousands of employees in the kindergarten sector keep their jobs. We have worked to ensure the net pay system in the maritime sector, so that tens of thousands will keep their jobs in that sector, which is also important for the vocational school sector. We have looked at a whole in the negotiations, accepted what was there, but we would very much like to see what we had negotiated with the Workers' Party and the Centre's party on study places in the colleges, was in prison. It's like Alf Prøysen said, "over the rainbow there is the sky blue." We're looking for the blues when we negotiate, but in this particular field, we're probably most in agreement with the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1776	«You're going to get one day at noon» – I think it was the Advance Party felt when they left the government in January this year. They used it to settle about the colleges and create expectations with us, which they unfortunately were unable to follow up. That's too bad. But then the Progress Party has also, during the fall, collapsed into the fold again and became the support party of the government that they have always been, and finally made a budgetary settlement for a number of areas, among others. education. They include: increased the so-called ABE cut which affects Norwegian universities and higher education institutions and which makes them less able to cope with the important work they do in education and research. Did any assessment of what increasing the ABE cut would mean for each university and college? Was there any dialogue with the university sector about this, or was it just a balancing item in the budget negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1785	In general, in the years since the entry into government of the Progress Party, the sector has been significantly strengthened by funds, significantly more than what has been cut and reductions in the ABE reform. But then, when the Progress Party was involved in the negotiations, we had alternative proposals for cutbacks. We wanted, for example. cutting down on the teacher-specialist system, and we wanted to introduce a tuition fee for foreign students, which parts of the Centre Party have been very concerned about earlier. We spend billions on providing free education for foreign students in Norway. We wanted to take some money from them by introducing a tuition fee. But there was something the government didn't want, and we had to look at the government's proposals for elutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1790	The representative Steffensen's party trap and colleague in the committee, the representative Søttar, have been in Kabelvåg on several occasions and have been on demonstration trains to preserve Nordland's arts and film discipline school. This school is important to Lofoten. In addition, it is good district policy to have good training provision locally. But first and foremost, Nordland provides a brilliant education for art and film subjects and offers a unique artistic offer for film production and is an offer with an international reputation. I want to boast of the Advance Party, which took this into its alternative state budget. The problem was that this was not a big enough case for the government parties in the budget negotiations either. What does the representative now think it is necessary for the school to bring up students for the autumn? Is there hope, and what will the Progress Party do on the occasion of the matter? As the matter stands now, the school faces a dark future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1798	That's right, as the representative says, we've put it into our alternative state budget. We've been fighting for Nordic art and film science schools both through notes last year, and also by letting it into our alternative state budget. The way forward is now, I'm not the one to answer. Here, the county councils have to engage in dialogue with the ministry and different universities to see if there is any possibility of setting up an agreement of intent, and thus perhaps get funds in the long term. I hope they succeed, because it has proved to be a school that provides a good study offer, and that has created enormous commitment in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1810	It's serious out in Norwegian schools and kindergartens. The enormous ship's roof from this spring has been replaced by an endless working pressure throughout the autumn. The dungeon has been cancelled. The right-hander could not find out. To say that with the words of Professor Johan Falkenberg from Bergen, "I'm going crazy." He works around the clock to get the offer they are entitled to. I am getting more and more serious reports of coronary fatigue from schools and kindergartens all over the country. Employees report high labour pressure, increasing sick leave, lack of temporary budgets and insecurity in the field of infectious diseases. Expenditure on extra laundry, temporary work, overtime and other corona-related activities must be fixed by the school itself. The budgets of schools and kindergartens are starving. Billions were set aside for business, but kindergartens and schools were forgotten. What worries me the most is the consequences this is now getting, that the coronary fatigue reinforces the dramatic trends in school after seven years of right-wing rule: an increasing shortage of teachers, record numbers of unqualified teachers who teach, and falling recruitment and search for the teacher's study, which Elin Mage, Norwegian teacher from Bærum, confirms with his clear message: after New Year's she leaves the teaching profession after fifteen years. That message is not a single case; a new study shows that 53 pst. by the country's teachers have applied for or are considering applying for another job in the last two years. Sick leave has increased dramatically after the summer, and many kindergartens do not have money for temporary workers. The Korona crisis is going to be long-lasting, and there is a need to provide already worn-out employees with better answers to how everyday life is going to be in the spring. It is the government that is responsible for giving answers, but they rather push it down to municipalities and counties. The government has made its own backward country, where we're all just as noisy and weird, and where all the state councils sing a song they can't. Coronation in schools and kindergartens could have been solved. The only medicine is better infection, more money and more people. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party in its budget puts the money needed for schools and kindergartens. This is a time when we should bet extra on education, not cut. The most beautiful thing about the Norwegian common school is that all children regardless of background, if one is Jørgen hatmaker or King Solomon, get the same opportunity to go to the same good public school. And when we know that meeting a qualified teacher is the most important thing for students' learning, it's serious that the coronary fatigue is at the top of several dramatic trends, such as an increasing teaching shortage, record unqualified and falling recruitment. It has consequences for the students, especially the most vulnerable. As VG revealed in the fall: 14,000 students have lost their special education. We can't accept that. That's why school and kindergarten is one of the biggest bets in the Labour Party budget. We want to recruit, recruit and train more qualified teachers, who have better time, and in the 2021 budget, we want to give municipalities room to hire 1,000 more teachers. We want to introduce a read, write and calculate guarantee and set up teams to build a stronger team around the students in 1st to 4th grade. We're launching a new program to recruit educated teachers back to school, and we're starting the introduction of free SFO for all first-rate students. The Labour Party will have an active, practical and forward-looking school, where students will learn better and where they will have qualified teachers wherever they live. We see that the budget of the right-hand party has other priorities. It's more for those who already have a lot. King Solomon will be even richer, while Jørgen hatmaker must live with an unsafe working life and privatisation of well-being. That's why I'm glad the Workers' Party is showing a different direction. The Workers' Party will give no more in tax cuts to the rich. We'd rather spend the money on getting people to work, investing in skills and giving priority to school and kindergarten. It is the end of the donations to those who have the most from before; now is the turn of ordinary workers. That's why we give better and cheaper kindergartens, which means that a normal family would get $2,800 less in kindergarten bill this year. Now it's enough of the Right Reverse country, it's time for a social-democratic song everybody can. I bring this up with the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1838	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1845	I just want to point out that KS is working with the municipalities and the government to cover all the costs associated with the Korona, so it should be in place. But if there's one thing that's extra worth noting, it's that the Workers' Party controls most of the municipalities that the representative pulled out in his post. So it's really just about priority. For example, the Labour Party has: have been elected to put in place a leisure reform or to introduce full-time school, but in the alternative state budget we do not find a krona for these purposes. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that the Workers' Party's leisure reform will cost us 22 billion. kr, which means that you are miles away from being able to deliver on your own policies unless you intend to increase taxes significantly more than 7 billion. kr. Many therefore suggest that you're just going to get away from your own election promises. Can the Labour Party today confirm that their promise of full-time school and leisure reform has been scrapped?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1850	I fully agree with Mr Gudmundsen that this is about priorities. That's why I'm very proud that our alternative budget gives us a distinctly different direction in school policy from what the last seven years of Right-wing government have given us. And then I think it's equally fascinating every time the Right People in the Ministry of Finance are going to count on our policy. I can immediately establish that the calculation Gudmundsen refers to, does not vote, and he saves a lot of money by just saying that we have not gone to any full-day school – if I have understood the math correctly, you will almost save 21 billion. I'm just going to charge for it. Our priorities are clearly within our alternative state budget. It's about employing 1,000 more teachers, starting the introduction of free SFO for all first-raters and betting on better and cheaper kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1855	The working party is on a note on page 74 of the vote, criticising the government's proposal to cut pension subsidies and writing that they go against the proposed cut. But in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, 215.8 million have not been added. NOK to reverse the cut, on the contrary, an additional cut of 147 million has been proposed. kr. I wonder what the Workers' Party means – is that what is in the setting, or is it what is in the alternative state budget? Is the Workers' Party in order to cut private kindergartens independently of an overall review, or do they want a comprehensive review and that what they have proposed in the alternative state budget is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1860	Thank you very much for your question and the opportunity to solve this. There has been a lot of discussion around kindergarten, and I have understood that someone would have misunderstood what the Workers' Party has stood for. We have been critical of the government's proposal on pension grants. The Labour Party's policy has been that we want a comprehensive review of the funding system. What we've done in our alternative budget, on the other hand, is put a cut into the commercial kindergartens. It's because we believe, regardless of the discussion about pensions and funding systems, that one should receive equal grants by offering equal offers. All that money, ear to ear, that we cut in the commercial, we give to the small ideal private to strengthen the transfers to the standard of personnel. So isolated, it's not a cut for the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1865	As the representative has probably seen, we in SV now raise SFO to a level that fvi has called a new welfare reform for children, after painting two cities where the Workers' Party and SV cooperate very well. It's because we believe that all children deserve to be in the game, regardless of their parents' wallet. Are these ambitions the Labour Party shares nationally? Will the Labour Party participate in a reform that both says something about the content and about the free principle to be respected, and do they think that there is reason to bring everyone into the game in the SFO, on a template from Stavanger, as the representative knows well, and what we have in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1872	Yes, here I think we agree very much. It's high time there was a strong bet on the SFO, and I think it's nice to see so many cities now, especially those run by the Workers' Party and SV, introduce the free SFO, and the results that it gives. In Stavanger it has been shown that everyone is now getting involved, that those who have been outside the SFO offer are allowed to take part in the important offer, while one has also been able to bet on quality. And that's what I think is important -- that one can do those things at the same time. That is why I fully agree that it should be a great promise and a great ambition for a new government that a boat can guarantee everyone a good offer that is free, get the quality lifted and not least priority qualified employees, which I think we agree on in a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1879	The right to establish and operate in health schools is enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and is an important right for a minority in a democracy. I would argue that it is a quality of democracy that a minority with state support should have the right to establish and operate fresh schools based on either alternative pedagogy or a defined value base. The Christian People's Party made a compromise with the Workers' Party during the red-green period that this would be a right, of course if Norwegian law and curricula were followed, regardless of the location of the country. Now we see that the Workers' Party is calling for a veto right for municipalities and county councils to give them the right to refuse establishment. How will the Workers' Party defend the principle of parental rights, as enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights, and at the same time make it dependent on a changing majority in the various local governments and county councils around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1889	After all, it was the Christian People's Party that, in the first round, jumped from the free school agreement. It could have been done now too, but a compromise with the sitting government that I think is not as good. That is what the Workers' Party is now clearly on. We want to get back to what was, where one was more clear on demands both in law and on curricula. I believe the weakness of the reconciliation of the Christian People's Party agreed to join this government is that there is no room for local action. There we are in the Workers' Party crystal clear that a local knows best, knows its school structure best, and therefore should have the opportunity to decide for themselves. We want to introduce a stricter and clearer regulation for private schools, where we also ensure a local space for action on our own school structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1903	Although we are going to have a budget debate today, I would like to begin by stating that for the Right this is not a numerical debate, but a debate on what the school will contribute to for the individual. For as someone has pointed out so wisely, a little rewritten: Although the sun shines on you, and the shadow falls on me, the school can make the grass green for everyone. It's about equal opportunities for everyone. Even though we are now in a difficult time with a coronary crisis, where I want to praise all teachers and those who work in the education sector, in order to stretch far, we must do the same. We've done it through extra resources, because that's not the money it's going to be on. Cooperation with the local government sector is good. We've already given very many billions. But it's also important to draw the long lines, and since this is the last budget debate in the period, it might be good to look at them. Although the budget for 2021 is important, it is the direction and priority over time that really shows whether policy is working, whether we succeed in creating a safe and healthy growth for all children, that we succeed in giving mastery feeling and creating learning joy for each child, that we contribute to giving more children the opportunity to break out, create social mobility, create a future and complete and survive their education. Although ‘nets become long and cold,’ we find together on the civil side about the big and important policies and deliver our eighth budget. We also show this time that we stand together for a better education budget. The consensus we have reached in the field of education, we can't find on the red-green side. Therefore, the 2021 election year is in many ways a year of destiny for the whole education sector. There is no doubt that much remains to be done, but I am proud that we can conclude that much has improved in Norwegian school after the Right came into government. Students learn more and are more present in hours, more complete schooling, more children receive closer follow-up in kindergartens, more are taught by a teacher with depression, more are opting for a profession and a place to learn, more have been given the opportunity to pursue professional higher education, many thousands more are able to study and with better economics and living conditions, and we are constantly making records in research and higher education. Now we're actually getting more back than we're putting into our cooperation with Europe, and then I haven't even talked about the huge ringing effects that it brings to society and to business that we participate in and have access to this huge research network. The budget for 2021 has many new initiatives, and we are continuing the course, because there are still major challenges we need to solve. The requirement for completion of education and skills is constantly increasing in society. It's problematic that a lot of students don't get the basic skills they need to get on with their lives. The students' background still means too much to the chance of success in school, and the difference between municipalities and schools is alarming. Starting early is very central. A good kindergarten with learning through play is important to the Right. Good transitions to high school, a rise in early effort, the introduction of early specialists and good, adapted education with skilled teachers are also important and part of next year's budget. Together with the innovation and the teacher's promise, such as: Started the big effort in continuing education, masters, teachers’ specialists and much more, we are making a targeted contribution to a better school. The education promise of 2020, on which we have started, is based under our ambitions for Knowledge Norway. In particular, the focus on vocational training is important, as has been pointed out by the NHO and the enterprises themselves. Whether you want to become a Jørgen Hatter, a scaffolding carpenter or take education as an electrician and work with avionics on airplanes, you have a bright future when you look at the needs of skilled skilled workers. In particular, through the investment in vocational schools, both in the number of places of study, quality and status, opportunities have opened up even more. The trade schools, like the uncut gemstone they are, have enormous potential in Education Norway. This is precisely why it has been important for us to achieve a balance between several places of study and means of development that increase the quality of the entire sector. This is how we succeed in raising this choice of education among young people and adults. With the study credits, we are giving more and more opportunities for good transitions and combinations that will provide us with very exciting vocational training in the coming period. The education promise also contributes to many thousands more university and higher education places. Research is also growing in next year's budget, and the arrows are pointing up for our results. It's about making society and individuals ready for tomorrow's challenges and opportunities, and we show that we can. In total, it is easy to see that education and research have been central to the Right and the bourgeois parties, but we have greater ambitions. The choice next year will therefore determine whether the course will continue or whether we will again experience a red-green rest in higher education and focus away from knowledge and content in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1928	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1933	If the Right is so positive with the hatmaker training, I hope the government parties can support the Workers' Party's proposal on the traditional crafts today. But one of the things that concerns me, as I also said in my post, is that the coronary fatigue we see in schools and kindergartens, reinforces some of the pretty dramatic trends we've seen in school after eight years of right-wing government. We now have a growing shortage of teachers, record unqualified people teaching in Norwegian classrooms, and falling recruitment and search for the teacher's study. Last week a new study was presented among the members of the Education Association, which shows that 53 pst. over the last two years, teachers in the country have sought or assessed to apply for a different job. So the teachers will be gone. Is this a trend Right satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1940	I would point out that there have been many more, several thousand, teachers in Norwegian school with professional immersion. We have further education and training of 40,000 teachers, so it is now being taught more in Norwegian schools by teachers with depression, well-thought out teachers. There's no doubt that we have to continue the job of recruiting. We have active campaigns going on in the university and higher education sectors on it. Among other things, in my own home town, Tromsø, the University of Tromsø has made a wonderful effort in that field. In fact, historically, we see a very high level of applicants for teacher training, and we've put money in place for mentoring and follow-up. In sum, I believe that we have a lot that points in the right direction. We are in no way in the goal, but I feel that the balance between the measures we put in, and the situation we are in, makes us on the right track – and we have high ambitions in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1947	It is no secret that I am pleased that we got a pass to reverse the cuts to the government parties in what was about private kindergartens. I will do this very briefly: I read an interview with State Secretary Grunde Almeland from the Left at Kindergarten.no December 3rd. He got the question – simply fine: Do you still think it would be right to cut the pension allowance for kindergartens? The answer was yes. Is there a view that Right-Part – that it is right to cut the pension allowance for private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1954	I feel that we have had a very good cooperation with the Progress Party in creating good framework conditions for private kindergartens. I believe that we still have a good basis for that. We know that there have been questions about how the financing of the sector has been over time, and it is clear that we should be able to create a political breadth in the Stortinge, so that those who run private kindergartens could have predictability of their business, no matter who sits with the majority, I think it is important that we address some of the issues that have been challenging. From the point of view of the Right, it is important that when we are now going to have a comprehensive review of the Kindergarten Act and look at funding for the kindergarten sector, it should be such that we have a good basis for operation. It shall be fully possible to have a diverse sector and it shall be possible to have a surplus to invest and invest in future private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1963	The daily newspaper has mentioned in several headlines the smiley mapping Udir has started, last in a comprehensive review on 21 November. Today, the Daily Newspaper, NTB and Education New Form used in the national learning environment project by the government of Solberg started already in the autumn of 2013. Gunn Imsen is a school scientist and critical of ‘systematic indicator’ and says that the form itself can be bullying. I wonder if the Right initiates such studies for its own part – or what benefit do these forms and surveys have for pupils and teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1970	To the right, it is important that we have good knowledge of both the content and the situation of kindergartens and schools in order to be able to target the efforts and resources, which means that we get a better offer for our kids throughout the growth cycle. How to map, how to design the questions, and their content is primarily a professional question, not a political question. For my part, I am more concerned with the principle, that you should have knowledge of kindergartens and schools, than exactly what the device for these questions and that research should be. I believe that researchers can discuss themselves well between themselves and point out weaknesses and strengths in the different methods. And then I'll listen to that debate. But unlike the representative, I am much more positive about having this knowledge, which I record that the Centre Party has worked hard against. They really want to control this sector without that knowledge at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1977	We have a government that doesn't deliver what they promised in the case of student housing. The last year was just a little over 40 pst. by the student housing that the government promised they would build, built, and this year the level of ambition is lowered to what I would call a minimum. This is simply too bad. Every year, thousands of students are in the queue after the start of their studies, and while the government is increasing the number of study places, the student housing structure is still. In its alternative budget, SV has allocated money to 4,000 new student homes next year. Is the government and the Right just out to feed an already saturated and over-priced private housing market? What's the right one going to do to get a completely different speed on the student residence building? I ask that the representative not blame anyone else, for this is the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1987	I would, with respect to reporting, remind you that it was the majority we have today who really speeded up the student housing building in Norway. We have received several thousand student homes during the years we have prioritised this on the state budget. The reason for adjusting the figures in the budget is primarily the reported completed projects that the student institutions have been able to put in place. As a result, it is a fact that issues such as regulation and other issues that you get out of the municipalities, which otherwise SV controls quite a lot of them, together with the Workers' Party, are a bit of a clog in the system. I might recommend the representative of Fagerås instead of taking paper student housing on a state budget, getting a prioritisation of these projects out in Municipality-Norway, so you get regulated, get the projects ready, so that the Studentship can apply and get money realized over the state budget. We're willing to also adjust the numbers if the need increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1994	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e1999	The Central Party wants good services near people throughout the country. Good growth starts for most kids in kindergarten. We believe it must be good child care throughout the country, with the opportunity to go to a kindergarten close by. Therefore, we prioritise increased municipal framework and the reversal of the cut in the pension allowance to child care workers from the government of the state budget. The centre party also wants a more practical and active school, with greater involvement of students and teachers and less bureaucratic overrides. The youth school must have room for practical choice and hospitation to provide students with a good basis for choosing further education. In higher education, vocational training must be provided with equipment and apprenticeship that equips the pupils for working life, and study specialists must have the choice and opportunities to equip the students for study. Teachers must be involved and listened to, just as teachers must have time and confidence to hear and involve students in school everyday life. Testing and screening shall have added value for pupils, teachers and school leaders, as well as municipalities and county councils where the elected representatives are under the statutory responsibility. Stress and pressure need to be changed to motivation and opportunities. The centre party believes that an important part of this is good physical and mental health with school food and physical activity, designed locally – equidistant between target forms as well. Students must have equal opportunities, from their starting point of view. Kindergarten and school are one of the most important municipalities and counties in charge. For many years, there has been a wide gap between requirements and expectations made available by national authorities and the resources made available by the government. The central party believes that the government's draft budget for 2021 places kindergartens and schools in a further difficult situation. A strongly weakened municipal economy and large additional expenditures as a result of the corona situation give red figures in the kindergarten and school budgets. It is alarming that a government that is talking in headlines about quality in school does not take responsibility for the financial situation, but instead takes responsibility for the local kindergarten and school authorities. The result is a deterioration in the quality of the provision of young people and the difficulty of working for their employees. In addition, it places both kindergarten and secondary school structures under further pressure. With the introduction of new curricula combined with a severe infection, we are at risk that it will all be a single large belly pad. Increased competence and research are key to the long-term transformation of Norway. Therefore, the opportunity to learn all your life must include people throughout the country. The Centre Party has been working for many years for a stepping-up plan to increase the number of places of study in vocational schools in line with the needs of the labour force for higher professional competence. As a result of the covid-19 pandemic, the need for change and empowerment in both industry and the public sector has increased further. This concerns both the need for shorter courses, own modules and regular vocational education. Finally, in the spring of 2020, the Centre Party was given an impact on the escalation of vocational training places in the context of the treatment of the reform of competences. However, the government has not followed up the decision on the increase in its draft State budget for 2021. In our alternative budget proposal, the Centre Party therefore proposes 1 000 post-secondary school places more than the government for 2021. Furthermore, we are betting on the development of the schools and a separate student representative for the post-secondary students. Norway’s largest and most important resource is undoubtedly the competence and labour force of the population. Competence development is of great value to individuals and is a necessity for a changing working life. Competence and to close the gap between the actual skills of the workers and the needs of the labour force are needed. In order to provide highly-enforceable skills, the Centre Party proposes 2 000 new places of study within, among others. medicine, nursing and ICT. In the future, chiropractor training will also provide better health services for people with back and skeletal disorders. The Centre Party proposes a separate grant to stimulate the UH institutions to develop tailor-made offers that can meet the needs of the labour market for skills, individual competences and regional needs. We also propose a grant to institutions with multiple study places. Overall, we will increase the UH sector by 322 million. kr. This includes an increase in the basic funding. Two public selections, led by Brandtzæg and Norman respectively, point to the need for education throughout the country. It underlines the central party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2020	"I know two who are good friends. And both of them dwell in the land of Norway." The Labour Party is pleased that the Centre Party is with us in the criticism of the government’s red tape and efficiency reform. As a result of the pandemic and other major societal challenges, Norway needs to change significantly in the future. We in the Workers' Party see higher education and research as absolutely necessary to make that transition. That's why, in our budget for 2021, we have decided to bring back more than half of the government's ABE cut, i.e. 97 million. kr. We have said that in the government position we will stop the ABE cuts completely and replace the cheese conditions with a trust reform. So I read with interest the Central Party's draft budget, but there it didn't seem so obvious to me. My question is therefore: how does the Central Party follow up its criticism of the ABE cuts with actual budget priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2029	Yes, it's an important point that the representative Sandberg raises. The ABE cuts have undoubtedly posed major economic challenges to the sector. It actually goes beyond the activity, that's the feedback we get. The center party therefore set itself the goal of trying to re-prioritize funds in such a way that we were able to restore the government's ABE cut, and we did. Which I ended up with in my post here: with 322 million. Kr in reprioritisation for higher education we believe that we will then restore the ABE cut. We were also really surprised when the government and the Progress Party introduced even more ABE-cuts in their budgetary settlement for the collection of their additions. So this is a direction we want away from, and we hope to work well with the Workers' Party towards a potential new government from the fall of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2034	When we have numbers that show that there are major learning differences between schools and municipalities, the Central Party's answer is to hide and report us out of national trials. When we get a PISA study or a TIMSS study that says something valuable about whether our students learn to read and whether they learn to calculate, the Central Party's answer is to report us out of international research like PISA and TIMSS. When we know that a good teacher is the most important thing for all students to learn, the Central Party's answer is to remove demands for teachers to immerse themselves in math, Norwegian and English. The school policy of the centre party is thus a rather nice mixture of lowering the demands for teachers to be professionally up-to-date, removing transparency about whether students actually learn to read and calculate — and calling it trust. So my question to the Center Party is, if they're going to take away national tests and report us out of international research, what's their answer to a mother or father who's wondering what's going on at school where they're going to send their kids for ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2041	I imagine that parents when they have students in school don't expect to get answers to how the student does it in school, from national education politicians coming from the Right. The centre party expects that there are teachers who have time and capacity to follow up the students more closely and more actively, because that is what the teachers will, rather than spending time on, for example. PISA, which has been discussed, and which is not seen to have any direct utility for students and teachers. There might be a question for the Right: what kind of direct utility is it for students and teachers? I find it fascinating when the Right talks about them being so busy with the teachers, because the teachers have not in any way asked for any skill requirements retrospectively, four-time requirements for admission to teacher training, or even tougher conditions for completing teacher training. They want continuing training, stronger professional communities and time and trust to do the job they want to do, namely follow up the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2046	My question to the representative Knutsdatter Strand was: What is it to say to the parents? For it cannot be decided that parents should have confidence in the school in their community, nor can it be decided that parents should have confidence that school politicians or municipal politicians from the Central Party are doing their job as school authorities. It actually has to be built stone by stone. Having transparency about how things are going at school is just the foundation of having trust over time. It is then that the Centre Party is not only going to notify Norway of international research and to remove national samples, but they are also going to notify Norway of EEA cooperation and therefore also of major European research programmes such as Horizon 2020. Horizon 2020 has led us to a large research network in Europe that is committed to raising Norwegian research. And then we're going to get more back per cent than we put in. Brexit has shown that it is not that you can just sign out and suddenly get a much better trade agreement in captivity. So my last question is, why is the Center Party willing to sacrifice the research collaboration and the network that our researchers get through Horizon 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2055	It is obvious that the representative Tybring-Gjedde does not listen to me when I reply, because I believe that the leaders can engage in dialogue with the teachers and those who work with the schools locally, instead of national school politicians from the Right. It's my answer to what we're going to say to the superiors, because that's where the dialogue school-homes are going, not here in the Stortinget. The center party is for information about the school, but we think it needs to be a lot more strongly involved in teaching and, not least, student participation where there is room for it, in order to give a profit and an added value to those we actually want to achieve here. The learning is not just numbers on paper, as it seems to be right making it, it's actually about an added value, a development. It's not linear, it varies from student to student and from classroom to classroom. There must be room for action and facilities for the school, and this cannot be done through standardised surveys and the right national individual thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2062	The Central Party proposes to remove the teacher-specialist scheme and the Kutter 229 million. kr. Then the question is, how are we going to get more recruitment to the teaching profession when they cut their career opportunities? When the Centre Party is both against new career paths in school, against the demands of teachers, against stronger character requirements for learning, we are weakening the status of the teaching profession, and then we are also hindering stronger professional communities in schools. So the question is, how are we going to be able to recruit more good teachers when we weaken and the Center Party removes career opportunities in the way they do with the teacher-specialist system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2069	The centre party is committed to cutting down the teacher-specialist system because we believe that it is a re-prioritisation from a system that is poorly anchored in the profession and with the parties, and that should go far more to funds for continuing training for teachers that they have interest and benefits from. We are in favour of career paths and to have opportunities to develop also as a teacher in the profession for many, many years, but the Centre Party looks much more seriously at the growing shortage of teachers, which is several places in Norway, especially in North Norway. We don't feel that the government is serious enough. We want an overall big message on this because we believe it is a major challenge, and that you cannot climb on this piece and split, but you have to see the teacher's profession as the big, important professional group it is, and bring together actions and opportunities for this professional group in a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2077	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2082	All children must be in the play. Kindergarten shall take care of the needs of children for care and play and is the first step on the road to lifelong learning and education. We in SV want to strengthen the quality of kindergarten and give all children the opportunity to participate in it. Therefore, SV will reduce the maximum price in kindergarten, rather than needs testing, which is both bureaucratic and stigmatizing. We want the kindergarten to be the cheapest for everyone. Unfortunately, we see that the maximum price has increased under this government – since 2013 it has increased by 17.2 pst. With this government it becomes more expensive to send their children to kindergarten, and then it helps little with increased child welfare if it goes directly to cover more expensive kindergarten. SV carried out the largest welfare and education reform, the children's hail, under the red-green government. Now is the time for a new welfare reform for children, namely free SFO. When today's government has money to give billions – billions – to the kingdom of the country, because in Erna countries, 'there can all go, there are just as noisy and weird all men' – we say in SV that we want to spend the big money on the little children. Today, eight out of ten first-graders go to the SFO. They get to be part of the game and the learning of the community of SFOs. At the same time, there are some kids standing on the outside of the fence looking in. When school is over, these kids don't get the safe place to be with adults who provide supervision and care. They must not participate in the offer of games, cultural and leisure activities. A third of those who do not send their children to the SFO state that the price is the reason. No child should be kept out because of their parents’ wallet. The SFO shall not be a source of exclusion and increased differences, but an important part of the inclusive and equalising common school. That's why we in SV are now lifting SFO to all the country's first ratings into our alternative budget, and we're going to vote on the free SFO for all the 1st to 4th grades. With SV's budget, most people will get better out of it, and not just those who already have enough. Therefore, a family with children in SFO would save over 13 000 SEK a year with free SFO. We see that in municipalities where SV is in charge, this is already in place, as in Oslo and Stavanger. The results cannot be overlooked, not even by our opponents in the government. In Oslo, participation in the AKS is highest in the country, 94 p.m., and all parts of the city have received higher participation after being free part-time. At Tøen School, attendance went up from 27 p.m. to 100 pst. after the offer was free of charge. But the SFO should not only be free, it should also be better. Several employees and good follow-up of the children increase the quality of the SFO. Children must be given the opportunity to participate in several activities through the SFO with play, physical activity and not least culture. This must be done in cooperation with sport, culture and volunteering. The completion of our children’s ‘working day’ when SFO is completed has long been an important principle for SV. That is why we need to include homework and homework in part of the SFO offer, so that all children will be done with their work when they come home. It will provide better time for the family and a less stressful everyday life for families with children. SFO is important for friendship, play and learning. It's important for families to get the time to go up. But most of all, SFO is important for our children – that's why SFO is important for SV. Now, finally, all kids have to be in the game. I'll bring up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2107	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2114	SV subsidises its high level of funding within education in its alternative budget. If you add up all the promises about all day school, free school food and SFO, one hour of physical activity for all students every day, it'll cost 37 billion. kr in full year-on-year effect. This is not something we in the Right have calculated, it is the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance who have come up with the figures. SV has added less than 1.2 billion in its proposal. kr, and even with a quadrupling of the bets it is only dried 10 pst. of what the promises will cost. In the right, we will give more and better teachers in school and ensure increased quality and early efforts in the follow-up of students. But although the main question should be why SV does not bet on the teacher and prioritize knowledge and quality in school, more than I think I wonder why SV, if they actually believe this, does not prioritize the school. How are they supposed to deliver on the promises they give to the voters? They're just adding a fraction of what's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2121	This must be one of the most terrible accusations I've had in my entire life. I've spent my entire speaking time talking about SV's alternative budget, where we spend 1 billion. NOK to do the SFO free while we want to improve the content of the SFO. I understand that the right can become a little bit envious on SV, we're spending over 500 million. There is more to the education budget than the government does, in addition we have a historically high municipal budget. So the representative Gudmundsen – there was a lot here – says that we don't bet on teachers. In a few days' time, we will come in SV together with our partners in the Center Party and the Workers' Party with a proposal for a representative to increase the number of teachers in Norwegian school. It's critical what you've been delivering in the last seven years. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]] On average, all Norwegian children go to school for an entire year without a qualified teacher, and then it becomes a little funny to.... [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2128	The number is over a long time ago! Here you have to follow the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2133	I think the answer that comes here is quite eye-catching. So it's the Ministry of Finance that, on budgetary questions from the Stortinget and from the SV Storingsgruppe, has presented calculations on the different promises that SV itself has prioritised – through the media and through their playoffs – so this is not something I stand here and just think about. It's an undeniable fact that costs amount to 37 billion. kr. And then when you see that you're adding about 10 pst. Of this amount in its alternative budget, it is clear that the question comes up: what are the promises you want to cancel, or is the tax increase of tens of billions, really a bluff? Are we really talking about significantly more billions that voters can expect to raise taxes? I believe that we should be able to clarify this. One of these things have to cancel out, because it just doesn't work out, this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2138	I'm assuming that the Right chooses to interpret what they want. We spend extra money on school food, we spend extra money on homework, we spend extra money on physical activity. That the right does not think it is enough, that does not use a penny on these measures, I think it is only funny, and I think that then I have no other and better answer than that we are betting in Swedish. We want a school to have time for play and physical activity, we want a school with several teachers who have time for each individual student, and we want a school that is more practical and varied, and that's something quite different than what the Right has shown over seven years in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2143	We just heard a long list from SV about what they're going to spend money on, but they also want free kindergarten and free SFO, and all the kids are going to be there. Ergo, what SV wants, is an expanded all-day school, where the state has to take responsibility for the kids from morning to evening. So they want to deprive parents of freedom of choice by saying that all the kids should be involved in this. So my question is really pretty short: does SV mean that the parents are actually unable to choose even if the kids are going to go to kindergarten or SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2148	One of the things that bothers me most in Norwegian school is that Norwegian school reproduces social differences. If there is a family with small resources, you can be quite sure that children here do not have the greatest opportunities in Norwegian school either. This is not the SV that says, this is the research that shows. Then I think it's this hall and the damn duty of all the raisers to go to work every day and work for equal rights to education. I'm pretty sure what we're doing in our SV school, that's to have money for enough teachers, so that every single student is seen and followed up at his level, a school that's practical and varied, where everyone gets the opportunity to join and participate, a school that has time for play and physical activity, and that even helps kids with their homework – for those who don't have the opportunity to get that help at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2153	The next replicator is Marit Knutsdatter Strand. The President will stress, before Knutsdatter Strand gets the floor, that even if there is a bit of temperature, you do not use expressions of the type ‘condemned duty’ and so on. You have to be a little careful with your use of words, even if you get a little warm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2161	It's good to hear that there's room to get warm. The centre party will have a policy to fend for the family – right of self-employment and family situation – and even if we do not have a ‘breed at’ and a ‘look up bird's bands’ yet, we perceive that SV will work for a full-day school. Why is it better with a full-day school than a everyday one where students and their families decide what time to go to?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2168	As I was in my previous post, I am concerned that we should do everything we can in this room to prevent social differences. Then I think we need to have a device on our national policy that allows all students to have equal opportunities. We know that school reproduces differences. We can't sit still and look at that, and I think it's important what we do in our promise, when we say that all children are going to get free SFO. Not only shall all children be included in the play, in addition all children shall be included in the activities of the full-time school in the SFO. I think that'll be a boost. It will be a welfare reform, and I am very pleased that we are at the forefront of the new welfare reform for Norwegian children in SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2173	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2178	Children who master, who master to read, to count, to act in front of a assembly and to get a fire at a fire, are one of the strongest and most important things that are. I've seen it, both as a mother of three children and through involvement in volunteering for children and young people over many years. I'm incredibly grateful to all the teachers, because they're doing the world's most important job. A good school is about giving all children equal opportunities to learn, to master and to build a foundation for their own lives. Not everyone should do the same, but all students should cultivate their talents and interests. When Left and Johan Sverdrup introduced the National School Act in 1889, it was radical. It provided the basis for a common school for all children. For the Left, it is still about giving all children and young people freedom and equal opportunities. Not all children have a mother or father who accepts when they come home with ‘their first lion’s tooth’ or where ‘savour’ is ‘a bessmorfang’. For these children, kindergarten and school are even more important. Kindergarten and school are the most important Community institutions we have in society, and the Left wants all children to have the opportunity to go to kindergarten and school leisure. In 1889 it was about the housekeeper’s daughter sitting on the same school bench as the director’s son. Today it is about the boy from the reception office sitting in the same classroom as the professor's daughter, it is about the children who have additional challenges getting extra follow-up at school as early as possible, and it is about the fact that children who have a mother or a father who for various reasons are out of work or who are struggling with illness also have to go to kindergarten, so that these parents too will see the shine in the eyes of their children, who are masters. That is what we are giving priority to, including in this budget, this time too. The left is very pleased with this budget. We are happy to see what we have done in cooperation with the government, and in government, in the last seven years. There have never been more teachers in Norwegian school, more teachers have never received further training, and there have never been more qualified teachers in Norwegian school. We know that the single factor that matters most to a good school is good teachers. We've been busy giving teachers the opportunity to create even greater professional and educational security in Norwegian classrooms. This is something we will see positive effects of in Norwegian school for a long time to come. Over a demanding year in 2020, where much has been shut down due to the covid-19 situation, it has been important for the government to keep the most normal in kindergartens, schools and colleges and universities. I would like to extend a special thanks to employees in kindergarten, teachers at schools and those working in higher education. Without them, this would not have been possible. Many have gone a long way in this situation. Nevertheless, we know that for some children and young people the follow-up has not been good enough, and we know that too many students have, and are, very demanding. For 2021 we are committed to continuing the good schemes in kindergarten, school and higher education. Greater emphasis on knowledge in schools, more places of study, research and integration is essential in order not to remain out of the labour market. We have to get more people to work, and then they have to have access to up-to-date skills and education, and more people have to get the chance to learn Norwegian. I am particularly pleased that the government with this budget is continuing the Education promise with a budget of several billions. This is particularly important for those who are out of work or who are out of work in order to be able to take education, change and acquire the skills they need. Our investment in thousands of universities and colleges, more funding for industry programmes, increased apprenticeship grants and new funding for professional letters is crucial. The government's commitment to the completion of advanced training by more people on leave and leave will lead to more people standing on a safer footing in a secure job. At the same time, money is provided to enable graduates with holes in the diploma to complete. This whole budget is a massive investment in knowledge and education, from the 430 million. on the competence and quality of kindergartens and the promises of special pedagogics to the government's commitment to vulnerable pupils in school following the effects of the coronary apathy, and on to the commitment to the teacher-specialist scheme, which could increase the number of teachers' specialists from 1500 to 2,300 from the autumn of 2021. Extra funds are provided for teaching materials, the balancing of digital differences between municipalities, income-graded parental payments to apply also to the third and fourth stages of the SFO and free SFO for low-income families in selected municipalities. This great commitment to competence policy builds society, values and security for the future. It gets the championship in Norwegian children's school day, every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2211	The left presents itself as a liberal party, not least on behalf of local democracy. Strong, self-governed regions were the main reason for the regional reform for which the Left is committed. When that reform was adopted by a civil majority, the municipal spokesperson of the Left and the case-rapporteur for the reform said: ‘This is important for those who believe in the spread of power and a living district Norway’. Regional reform should therefore create ‘larger and more robust regions that can have more tasks and responsibilities’, he said. Higher education is clearly the most important and important task of the county councils, but for this task, the left county councils do not trust either responsibility or autonomy. Why is the clear desire of the left national county councils to choose the recording model that best fits locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2218	The left wants students to have greater freedom of choice when it comes to high school. It is not to override the county council, but it is to set a framework for students to have an admission system that gives them freedom. The county councils should continue to be able to establish good arrangements for the admission system for secondary schools, but we believe it is a national responsibility to ensure the rights of students, so that they have greater freedom in their choices. We believe it is right to establish a national guideline and a framework within which county councils can make good arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2223	I'll make this very easy. I asked the representative Gudmundsen about a petition in Kindergarten.no. December 3. The representative Gudmundsen has a well-developed talent to say a lot of words in a short time, but he didn't answer yes or no, so instead I ask the representative Schytz if she shares the opinion of Secretary of State Almeland that it is right to cut the pension allowance for kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2228	In the government's proposal for a government budget, there was a cut of 250 million. kr of what was then an over-regulation of the pension grant to private children's households. It was based on a calculation and an understanding that here it looked like the private kindergartens had been paid too much over a long time. At the same time, it was very clear that it should not affect the independent and small private kindergartens. They were to be spared, and it was to enter into a transitional arrangement that did not go beyond them. Then we later got an agreement with the Progress Party on the state budget that means we haven't cut it, and that's an agreement I like.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2241	Yes, the Progress Party probably saved the Left when it came to the private pension grant for the private kindergartens, and it was good for them. But it is also the case that we have implemented reforms in the kindergarten sector that are heavily underfunded. There may be more than half a billion missing to fully fund the standard of staffing introduced in kindergartens, and that at a time when kindergarten employees are incredibly tough, covering up for colleagues who are ill or in quarantine, doing a very good job. Thanks are still a significant underfinancing of the crew reform. What significance does the Left have for the quality of kindergartens that one does not fully finance the reform that we all agree on? The Left is also concerned that this can be done, for example. result in bankruptcy in the small private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2251	Competence in kindergartens is important. We also agree with the Left. If we are to succeed in putting this in place, we need to prioritise both nationally and locally. It is not least dependent on municipalities actually giving priority to kindergartens in their budgets. Then we also have to innovate nationally that here there is a need for competences in kindergarten for which we have to take our share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2256	I think it is a little too simple by the representative Schytz to push the ball back to the municipalities and say that this should finance the municipalities. It's a total expansion that's decided we're going to have a staffing standard in kindergartens. Then we must also take responsibility for it being fully financed. It is the country that has not now invested enough funds in the reform. That's what could be going on in the kindergarten sector. The centre party is also deeply concerned that this can lead to many small and individual private kindergartens having great difficulties in the future, and that we can experience that they are not going to be able to cope. It would be a loss for the whole kindergarten sector if the small private people were not to make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2263	I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that it would be a great loss for the kindergarten sector if small and independent private kindergartens did not manage. Therefore, the government is concerned that they should have good conditions, and it must succeed with the municipalities if it is to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2268	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2273	This year, the country’s teachers have replaced classrooms and daily association with the students with a lot of new digital teaching. Norwegian school spent the night getting the biggest change ever in how to drive education, thrown into prison. Nevertheless, there were too many students in place good arrangements already the day after the closure in ours. I would like to thank the teachers here from the Parliamentary Chair. You threw yourselves around. Thank you for all you do when you hold the future of our country in your hands. And thank you for having a society that trusts teachers so much that they can experience support in the choices they have to make every day to ensure that our children are seen and get the knowledge they need, even though more – too many – are still going on through digital solutions. The kindergarten should be a safe and good place for young children to be – a place where children can evolve through play, interaction and creative development. This has been challenging to deliver from kindergarten employees in a pandemic situation. Both cohorts, reduced opening times and a lot of sick leave have characterized everyday life. Thank you for the job you do, and thank you for putting the care of our very least in focus for a time like this. The most important thing for kindergarten is the adults who work there, and in order to get the quality of kindergarten provision, we probably need adults with the right skills. That is why in the Christian People's Party we are satisfied with the implications of the standard of living and increased pedagogical density in the kindergarten. But private kindergartens also need a secure, predictable financial framework. This is why a new system of grants for private kindergartens is now being developed, which is designed to ensure both transparency and transparency and predictable, good economic conditions. For the Christian People's Party, diversity in the kindergarten sector is important. We therefore believe that the small kindergartens should be given special consideration in the design of the grant system. In the transition between kindergarten and school, the Christian People's Party believes there is a clear need for more knowledge about how six-year-olds experience school leaving. When the school age was lowered from seven to six, our children were promised one day with more games as a learning method. The transition to the school bench should be done as well as possible, with small student groups and good teaching resources. ‘Sola skin on you, so the shadow falls on me, but the grass’ must be ‘green for owl’, even for the six-year-olds. We are therefore impatient about the results of the evaluation of the six-year reform and look forward to leaving them also indicative of future education policies. A teacher must have time to see and support each individual student. Higher teacher density provides more time for each student and better opportunity to adapt the training. That's why the Christian People's Party has consistently prioritised several teachers over several years, and I'm pleased with the adoption of a national school-level teaching standard. ‘I’m an old teddy bear as kind as that’, but with the teacher’s norm I had to cuddle a little ‘to get that tea’! [[Laughter]] With a historical commitment to a legal teaching norm, this government is now ensuring that all students have equal access to the school's most important resource, namely the teacher, and then an old teddy bear can only laugh at what he's been given – yes, in fact, we've increased by 4,400 new teacher's year since 2013. Historically, this is not just a big wager. Yes, it's been very important during the pandemic, but we have to follow this closely, we have to increase recruitment, and we have to bring down the number of unqualified teachers further. Vocational education is about linking theory and practice in a way that prepares the student for the profession he has chosen. But we also have faith in a greater focus on social skills in vocational training. The labour market has shifted from purely project-related tasks to purely project-related tasks. Good communication skills, social skills and ability to solve problems and challenges are also needed. In this budget, we have increased the capital grant to the boarding schools and provided an agreement on a fairer remuneration for special education in these schools. It may not be such that the coverage of special education by decision of the individual municipality is both arbitrary and often underfunded. This year we have a budget that takes seriously the important addition of high school to public school. But most of all, this budget is about a country in crisis and our responsibility to take us safely through it. I believe that this budget is delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2297	Since the Christian People's Party was not part of the right-wing government, an agreement was made with the opposition to introduce an hour of physical activity to the school for everyone. Now that one is part of the government, one has strayed from this agreement and has prioritised lower taxes on snuff, tobacco, alcohol and sugar products. Yes, ‘with their praise, the teacher becomes very happy’, and writes in the notebook plus and very good! For in reverse countries, everything can go on.’ Does the representative of Groevan understand that the National Association of Public Health, the Norwegian Sports Association, the Cancer Association and all organisations involved in physical activity, public health and good learning are disappointed by the complete reversal of the Christian People's Party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2311	For the Christian People's Party – and I would also say for the government parties – it is important that we facilitate more physical activity, and we know that it does very well. We have several municipalities and schools that have done good tests, which have given more students the opportunity to be more active during a relatively theoretical school day. We want to stimulate it further. This is why guidance booklets, methodological notes, are now being made to help the school and the individual teacher to get this done. What we think is important in this context is the way this is introduced. We don't believe in the law of this, but we believe in the teacher, we believe in the teacher's freedom of method. We believe that this can be done well, one can also get good results, but also allow the teacher to use his methodological freedom to do this in his own way, which is also well supported by the Education Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2318	Since the opposition parties were interested in each other's thoughts today, I thought it was within myself that I could also share my interest in the Christian People's Party. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have both been for more teachers, and together we've got over 4,000 more qualified teachers. But then we disagreed on the teaching standard, and there we reached a compromise that we keep the big effort on further education, we keep the skills requirements, but then we introduce a standard of teaching as part of a big teacher's vow. We're not exactly on target. There are still many unqualified teachers in school, there are still teachers who do not have depression, and there are still differences between municipalities in the proportion, for example. unqualified teachers. So I'm really going to ask the Christian People's Party: what does the Christian People's Party think we should do in the future to continue to ensure a great teacher's promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2325	I think this is one of the important questions ahead of us in terms of developing a good school. Skilled, qualified teachers are one of the best and greatest and most important resources we have to put in to give students what they need, and what we're going to give them. I think there are several measures here that can definitely be important to look at. Some of them we're already working on. One is this with decentralised education. We've seen that it recruits a lot of people different from what the common colleges and universities do, because people are more residents, and they like to take education in combination with jobs. Grants to people who want to be teachers, I think is another important factor. We also have good arrangements to reduce debt, through the State Borrowing Fund. One measure is to develop more of it, but I think maybe first and foremost decentralised education is one of the most important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2332	I would like to continue with the foci I have had with both the Right and the Left and refer to the interview in Kindergarten.no on 3 December, where State Secretary Almeland says that it will still be right to cut the pension allowance for kindergartens. From the Right's response, I understood that they are pleased with an overall review, and the Left is pleased that the Progress Party got through in the negotiations. So I wonder, is it the Christian People's Party that has been the driving force for these cuts, or is the Christian People's Party also glad that the Advance Party has come to pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2338	Right before Christmas, we're all very happy, usually. I must say that I believe that Almeland is so right in what he said at the time the representative refers to. There are some kindergartens that receive more in pension benefits than they are entitled to. At the same time, we know that pension grants are part of the overall funding. We're concerned that now that we're looking at the whole funding, we can't take out one term, because we think it's a wrong picture. We've probably seen the reactions that we've had, that the reversal that came through the agreement with the Progress Party was the correct result of the negotiations we had in this particular area. This may help to increase predictability, and at the same time it gives kindergartens an opportunity to operate without having to sit down at a time when they are to ensure their children in a good way – not least in the shape of corona time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2343	As the representative Asphjell was in, the Christian People's Party was in December 2017 with and formed a majority in Stortinget, among others. The center party, for one hour of physical activity at school. It was a victory for physical and mental health. Now the government parkes, of which the Christian People's Party is part, this decision and says straight away that there will be a rematch. When we made that decision, it was not going to be about the freedom of method, and I don't understand why it was going to do it now. So I'm just wondering: why does the Christian People's Party want the students' health to go on a new political tour, such as the "hompetite, the homppetette, the homppetten theia"?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2348	This should not be a discussion of whether more physical activity is positive for children and young people. This is a discussion about how to do this. We know that today the school has many good, creative attempts and advances, both from municipalities and from single schools that get this into practice. A guide booklet is now being prepared with a lot of good suggestions and ideas on how to implement this. But we think that this is best done by the fact that each school finds out the way to do it, without it being through a central law directive. So our attitude to this is yes to more physical activity, but we let the individual school get the opportunity to find the way to do this by itself, without it coming as a burden. We also thought that was a good central party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2355	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2360	A good education is the key to success. If people make good use of their abilities and skills, they get both freedom and the ability to realize their desires and ambitions. Completeing school is also one of the most important things for children's ability to create a better and freer life regardless of background. It is therefore essential to ensure that they meet a high-quality kindergarten and school. We don't know what challenges those growing up today are going to have to solve in the future, but we know that no matter what the question is, the answer is more knowledge. Because it is an uncertain time we live in – a time that is very demanding for many. I'm really proud that teachers and employees in schools and kindergartens are doing their utmost to ensure our children and young people as normal education as possible in a very abnormal time. The world may be waiting, but fortunately it doesn't make children grow up. A good school is the most important thing that society gives to our kids to make sure that everyone gets equal opportunities, regardless of background. It is particularly important for the most vulnerable, which we need to ensure that they get the help they need and have the right to. That is why I am pleased that we in the budget are continuing an important action aimed at vulnerable children who have lost education to resume. The economic crisis resulting from the coronary apathy has led to high unemployment and many permissiveness. Those who already lack education are hit extra hard. As part of the record effort Education pledge 2020, it was granted in our budget nearly 850 million. kr in order to allow more people to complete secondary education and to give more places to learn. The government continues this effort in the 2021 budget, including: 150 million. SEK in order to allow for the completion of 150 million of the certificate to take place in departure students who leave with holes in the diploma. which facilitates an expanded offer at school for students who do not receive an apprenticeship – «letter of formal qualifications as a student». In addition, the government proposes to continue the exceptional increase in the apprenticeship allowance in the autumn to the spring of 2021. These are bets that are important not only in the current situation but also in the future. The education promise will also help to achieve the government’s goal of completing secondary education in 2030 with nine out of ten students. It is also an important contribution to ensure that we get more skilled workers in the future, so that not all high ambitions about beautiful Christmas gifts end up in a pile of bacon, as it did for little Jensemann. All children shall be able to participate in the community, irrespective of their background. That is why we are continuing the free core-time scheme for children aged two to five from low-income families. The government also proposes to grant 8.3 million. full-year-olds’ full-time coverage of one-, two- and three-year-olds in reception facilities – a small but very important measure and a step towards giving entitlement to childcare facilities for children in reception. Furthermore, we will extend the existing national scheme with income-graded parental payments to the third and fourth stages from the autumn of 2021 and allocate 15.2 million. SEK to free SFO for low income families in selected municipalities. We have to balance the quality differences in school and make sure that each student is seen and lifted. That is why I am also pleased that the government still has a solid stake in kindergarten by granting 430 million. to measures to promote the quality and competence of kindergartens. At the same time, we are proposing to strengthen the level of competence in special pedagogics and inclusive practices from 25 million. NOK 50 million. kr in both kindergarten and school. This government's extensive commitment to the qualification and further training of teachers and school leaders continues in this budget. We've tripled the number of teachers offered further education compared to the red-green ones. Since 2014, we have offered some 40,000 teachers further training. Last year, more than five times as many teachers were offered further training in Norwegian, math and English as in 2013. At our high pace, we have ambitions to offer 40,000 teachers further training in these subjects before 2025. There are more than 31000 more than the level of ambition of the previous government in 2013. This escalation must continue, and the government will continue to give priority to it in the future. It will give us even more competent and inspired teachers and improve school life and the learning outcomes for the students. We have to hold the good teachers at school. Then the classroom must be a developing and interesting place of work throughout the career. That's why we've opened up to give teachers more career paths and the ability to specialize. I never stop wondering why the opposition is against the system of teacher specialists, who both strengthen the central subject and provide teachers with career paths and development opportunities. The management of the pandemic requires a lot of us. At the same time, we also need the ability to deliver policies that can take us further. Although the situation has made it difficult for many people, the job done in kindergartens and schools around the country is more important than ever before. Education policy is about seeing individuals and ensuring that everyone has the freedom to take education and participate in society, regardless of who their parents are, what they serve, or where they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2390	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2395	I'm worried, as I said earlier today, about the consequences of coronary fatigue for the school, and that it reinforces some of the dramatic trends we've seen after seven years of right-wing rule, with an increasing lack of teachers, record unqualified people teaching in Norwegian classrooms, and falling recruitment and search for the teacher's study, which I've previously asked about. A new study last week showed that 53 pst. by the country's teachers have applied for or are considering applying for another job in the last two years. So the teachers are looking away from the Norwegian school. Is this a trend the Council of State is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2402	I think I'm going to use my answer to correct factual errors in the representative's posts. First, it's not like the teacher's education is less attractive than ever. There are many more people who are now applying for teacher training than when Solberg's party was in government. There are historically positive figures both in terms of the number of applicants and in terms of the number of trainees. The last one might be the most important one. So even though there was a slight decline in 2020, which I think it's worth watching carefully to avoid repeating, it's still been a very positive development in recent years. When it comes to the number of unqualified, it's also worth noting that yes, we still have too many unqualified teachers, but we've given 40,000 teachers further education, and there are also more qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms than ever. So I think it's important to nuance the picture a little bit. If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that the black paint that I think the Workers' Party is now doing about what's going on in school, doesn't help a single extra candidate to become a teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2411	This was a unique explanation from the responsible state council of important, serious trends. That in such a way, the Council of State denies that the search for teacher training is going down and does not take it more seriously, I think it is surprising. In addition, we know that the need goes up. That's why the teacher's shortage is increasing. The council did not answer my question. Clearly, the teachers are looking away from the school she's running. It should be acknowledged and addressed – it is a trend for which she is responsible. But I also want to ask another question. I see that Melby in the media has opened up to lower the learning requirements in school now in ours: if there is an exceptional state far beyond spring, a person can open up to lower the learning requirements in school. One can say that there's going to be a certain state of exception in ours because of the corona anyway. Therefore, the question is, how does the Council of State define ‘far beyond spring’? The day of planning for the teachers is now January. Can the Council of State give a clearer indication of what she means?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2420	Answering with the facts is something far from an explanation. I think it's important to nuance the image of what's going on in Norwegian school. The fact that we've done a lot that's right in recent years, for example. the massive emphasis on the further training of teachers does not mean that all problems have been solved. But that means we have to keep going on in the same track that we've been doing for very many years. I think the only way we can ensure that we have enough and good enough teachers across the country is to make teacher training attractive, to make sure that we have offers of further education, that we have opportunities for career paths, and not least that we show both the teacher and everyone else who works in school and kindergarten, the trust they deserve, and to give them the freedom to exercise the profession on their premises. Then there is no doubt that there has been an incredibly tough and demanding harvest – I don't think anyone should hide it. I really wish I could have given all the answers here and now on what the spring is like, and so let everyone have the opportunity to plan: what about exams? Do we have the right to complete all the competence objectives in the curriculum throughout the country? All of this I would very much like to give a response. Unfortunately, I can't answer how the coronary apathy develops during 2021, but we're going to support Norwegian teachers as much as we can. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2429	At least it's time for that answer!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2435	The party is very concerned about equipment in higher education. Last year we got in place to test out models with a gift-enhancement system. This year, new 15 million have been granted. in the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, and the majority points out in comments the possibility of looking at, for example. equipment trailers, which may be owned by a region by a container of equipment which can be spread over several schools so that several schools can benefit from that equipment. I wonder how the Council of State intends to follow it up in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2440	This is one of the changes that happened in the budget negotiations, which I was very happy about, I just have to say. There is no doubt that there are many high-level schools in need of equipment. I've been visiting some of the people who have really invested in equipment, and that means great both for students' motivation, because they're learning, and we've also seen that a lot of people have had positive numbers in terms of non-response. We've been trying to make good use of that system, because it's clear that even though we've now increased by millions in the budget deal with the Progress Party, there's still a lot of bigger sums going on to renovate high school. Here it is important that we manage to design the arrangements in such a way that the county councils also take a force and pledge their efforts. So I want us to find good arrangements that make the county councils contribute, maybe that business contributes, and then the state can contribute. I would like to cooperate with Stortinget to find those arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2447	Today, the Daily Newspaper, NTB and Education New Forms used in the national learning environment project launched by the government of Solberg in 2013. The educational environment project is identified as yet another nationally motivated survey of ethics and methodology on thin ice. The daily newspaper also mentioned in several headlines the smiley mapping launched by the Education Directorate, last in a comprehensive review on 21 November. On 26 November, representatives from the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Education Committee sent a concrete letter to the Government to clarify the matter, simply to obtain information. I wonder when there will be an answer, and what the Council's comments on the claims made in the Newspaper on 21 November about the lack of information about the Stortinget and the conditions surrounding the smiley mapping are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2454	I register that we have received a letter, and it will receive a thorough answer. It was a letter with many questions, so we have to spend some time answering those questions, but all the representatives who have signed that letter will get it. As for what Stortinget has been informed about and not, there is something here that is about the time before I became the Council of State, and therefore I want to be careful to comment on it. But I hope that the answer to that letter will help to illuminate it. I think it's interesting that we get a debate on the methods used to find out how children are doing in school. I think it's very good that there's a professional debate about what's the best way to figure out how children experience their own school life. I think that's very healthy. I don't think anyone claims they've found the exact way to do it yet. That's why we've also said that we need more knowledge before we can roll this out wide. But the fact that we're actually working on finding out how we know how children are doing, I'm really happy that we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2463	Yesterday we could read excerpts from a report that a lot of teachers are exhausted and unable to work. Although this is very discouraging, it is not surprising – unfortunately. Teachers as well as kindergarten teachers have stood on and displayed a tremendous ability to adapt in a short time. Like the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg, I am concerned about the consequences of this, both to keep teachers and kindergarten teachers and to recruit them in the future. In kindergartens, an opportunity for shorter opening hours was introduced in our homes, which gives the opportunity to mannify to meet the challenges that have been faced during the pandemic. Normally, kindergartens do not have requirements for the standard of living throughout the opening hours, but is it not an idea to ensure that the standard of living in kindergartens applies to the hours when kindergartens are open, also in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2470	I understand very well that there are many employees, including kindergarten teachers, teachers and other employees, who are now tired, who have had a tough harvest, and who I think are also getting extra tired because you know that this is not something that goes right away. We do what we can nationally to support what they do. We've committed over 30 billion. kr extra for the local government sector. I have to say that I am quite concerned when we see that very few of the money has come out to the schools, when very few principals experience that they have increased temporary budgets. Then I'm worried, because I think it's important to give priority. As far as kindergartens are concerned, if we are at a red level, and if we have a very high level of infection, there are opportunities to reduce the offer. I also see that many kindergartens engage in dialogue with their parents in order to find opportunities to cut down on the offer – I have experienced that myself – to have an opportunity to increase staffing and improve the level of infection protection. It is important to bear in mind that the recruitment standard adopted by the Stortinget is a minimum standard. It is possible to have higher crews than that, and it is important that all kindergarten owners take responsibility for ensuring a safe crew in all the country's kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2481	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2486	The budget we are discussing today helps to take Norway out of the crisis in the short term, but at the same time it is the answer to the long-term challenges we face. Even before the Korona crisis hit us in March, we knew that technological development, digitisation and the green shift will lead to some jobs disappearing, new ones coming, and jobs changing. It not only imposes increased requirements for formal competence, it also demands new competences for those who already have a basic education. Therefore, the continuation of the Education Commitment is one of the major priorities. We're expanding the capacity of the colleges, colleges and universities, we're giving up the work on flexible and decentralised services, and we're making tailor-made arrangements for the unemployed and for those on leave. It was set by six billion. NOK 2020 for this, and in 2021 we propose to increase to SEK 2.5 billion. kr. This means that both individuals and bunny pigs across the country are given the opportunity to complete secondary education, that more people can take professional letters alongside jobs, and that even more new students can start an education for the autumn. In addition, we have made exceptions to the day-to-day money regulation, so that the unemployed and on- leavers can make good use of their time to update their knowledge and be even better rusted when jobs come back. Universities and higher education institutions will be able to raise 5,000 new students in the autumn. The study places are targeted at areas where we know that society needs a great deal of competence over the years to come. That means that there will be more nurses, more doctors, more teachers and more within the mathematical and natural sciences education. In money, it means a real increase in the framework appropriations of the universities and colleges of 1.4 pst. Since 2013, universities and universities have had a total real growth of 20,2 pst. So they're going to have almost 7 billion in total. kr more under this government. For the post-secondary sector, we continue and step up, with 1,600 places of study, and in addition, 500 places of study come to the Industrial School. For education, there shall be more, both for Jørgen Hatter and for King Solomon. To put it simply, giving your ‘sykenbån på Gjøvik’, which we all have, with housing loans and jobs in District Norway, the opportunity to take education on their premises is a priority for this government. Therefore, more than double the focus on flexible and decentralised education provision. The year we are behind has been a reminder of how crucial research and international cooperation are. Challenges such as the coronary crisis and the climate crisis do not know any borders, nor can the solutions be. I'll draw out three things: We're proposing 40.9 billion. for research and development. This means that the research budget has grown more than 50 pst. since the taking over of the current majority parties. The government agrees to participate in the world's largest research and innovation programme, Horizon Europe. We would like to thank the EEA Agreement for that. It provides Norway with access to money, smart heads, partners and important infrastructure. We agree that Norway will participate in the new Erasmus+ programme. It means more exchanges for several Norwegian students and students, and that we learn from each other across borders. It's been a difficult year for everyone, including our students. Corona interventions have made study life challenging both socially and professionally. Teaching has sometimes been fortunate, and many have experienced much more sitting on the student hybel than in lecture halls and at the canteen table with fellow students. Too many students this year have become extra tough. The government therefore proposes to strengthen student relations by 20 million. kr to next year. This is going to add up to the 10 million. kr to be followed up by students, who made their last supplementary proposal, who will contribute to more social arenas, digital colloquia groups and that more people will contact and ask the important question: How are you? The way out of this crisis, but also the solution to many of the challenges of the future, is more knowledge, competence and education for more. This budget shows that the government and the four cooperation parties will once again adopt a powerful and offensive knowledge budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2531	The government has reduced two samples, both of which have made quite clear conclusions on what is needed to slow down centralisation in Norway. The District Industry Committee and the Demography Committee are in agreement. Both pledges to decentralised education as an essential measure to dampen the relocation. Selection leader Victor Norman was surprised at how bad things were in the districts. We're not in the Workers' Party. We see that there is a need for offensive and much better policies for equal access to education across the country, to ensure sustainable community and good welfare close to where people live. Decentralized education is a major act of the Labour Party's policy for the years to come. Now I hear the Council of State mention the temporary study places that have been included in the budget. My question is, what is the government master plan to follow the recommendations of both these selections politically?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2540	Let me first entirely agree with the representative that having decentralised education is going to be very important. I think that one of the solutions for the future is to use the technological possibilities we have, as well as that we have institutions that are capable of, for example. to be able to apply for funds through Diku in order to provide different flexible and decentralised education. That is why we are continuing this in the budget now. Then I'm not going to pre-notify everything that can come, but this will be one of those things that I'm going to work on towards the summer of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2548	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer. The district industry committee pointed to the relocation and lack of competent professionals and labour as the main threat to rural development. The Committee emphasises the importance of the education system both for residence and for access to labour. They say that attractive study services will counteract such a future gap of competence between cities and countries. We know that about 70 pst. stay in the region where they study, and that share is 80 pst. if you are born in the same region. That's why I was excited about what the Right Party Programme for the years to come says about strengthening higher education in the districts. There I found to my amazement almost nothing. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: does any future right-wing government really have no ambitions or measures for more decentralised education to strengthen the regions and ensure equal access to knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2559	Well, I think this government shows that we already have. I believe that the budget we are going to adopt today shows that we have. And fortunately, what the representative has read is the first draft of the party program. This is now out for discussion throughout the party, just as I suppose the Sandberg party is also involved. So there will be a new version in January, and then I recommend the representative to read it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2566	Before the summer, the majority of the population had adopted an obliging escalation plan for post-secondary education places. The sector has responded positively to this. They've said they're ready to accept more students. We see that there has been a strong increase in the number of applicants for the colleges, and the colleges themselves say that they have muscles to increase the number of students. We record that the government has not included this in its draft government budget, nor have they accepted to be involved in increasing the figure now in the autumn of the budget negotiations. So my question is really short and straightforward: Is the Council of State going to follow the decision and will of the Storting in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2573	Yes, of course, every government council and every government has the intention to follow up the decisions of the Stortinget. In the decision taken in the revised national budget of the representative’s party and the government parties, it was said that this should also be seen in terms of capacity and quality. This also meant that we actually said yes to 500 new places in the Industrial School through wage negotiations, as well as continuing the increase of 1,600 places. We believe that was in line with that. On the one hand, we make just relevant offers that the labour force asked for – there was another very important point from the representative’s party, namely that there should be work-related spaces – and we believe that we had the right capacity to do so. That's why we proposed it to Stortinget, and I notice that the Stortinget supports it. Let's not doubt that Storting's decision we are fully aware of, we're reading all the decisions Stortinget makes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2580	Let me just briefly say that the consequence that the Right wasn't willing to listen to the consensus that has been reached is that the technical schools are not now being announced offers they have planned, and must cancel any intentional agreements that have been concluded with the industry. It's very unfortunate. It delights a center party heart that all of a sudden have been occupied by decentralised education, in the wake of the two NOUs that have arrived. The two NOUs are very good in that area, they are. It will be an important question to discuss in the future, and it will be very much appreciated by the Center Party. But the fact is that the statistics show that fewer students are studying decentralized, and that there has been a shift at state universities and colleges from 2015 to 2019, i.e. in the wake of the structural reform for which both the Right and the Workers' Party were involved. In 2015, it was 42 pst. as a studied flexibly decentralised, now it is equivalent to 32 pst. Can the Council of State guarantee that no university or higher education places will be closed, and will he require universities and colleges to design decentralised study facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2591	Now the representative offers tango for two, because it is clear that, on the one hand, it is that with regard to the discussion about leaving apprenticeships, this is something that the Stortinget – right against the representative’s party, but with all the other parties – said to be up to the individual institution to assess. The second is, of course, whether to require them to have decentralised study services. First of all, it's an important part of their task already today. We also come with a management message and a work-relevance message. In addition to that, I'm very concerned that if we're going to have decentralised education, we need to strengthen the tools we have to make sure we have it. It is then a little special that the representative's party in its alternative budget, for example. proposes to cut 18 million. kr to Diku, which is the directorate that publishes funds for just these, and 23 million. kr to Unit, which provides the digital solutions to achieve this. If you want more decentralised education, we also need to strengthen and not cut those who want to contribute to it actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2598	Like the representatives Sandberg and Arnstad, this representative is engaged in decentralised education. I notice that the minister strikes his chest several times and says that this government should bet or have bet, or whatever it was for now, on decentralised education. I'm not sure my friends at Nesna agree. The government has been involved in shutting down the campers, and that's the opposite of the bet. In my home country now stands the struggle for the arts and film school in Kabelvåg and the nursing and teaching training at Stokmarknes. These are just examples from my home country, there are many such examples across the whole country. How will the Minister of Higher Education follow up on what is in the position of the district industry committee, and ensure that we have decentralised education across the country, not pursue such a policy that we actually put down existing places of study?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2607	This with decentralised education and thinking thoroughly through how it's going to be done, as I said, we're going to work towards the summer, just having a plan for it. So it's like when you're dealing with e.g. refer to Nesna, I must almost just remind the representative that her own party voted that this should be up to the institutions themselves, not up to me as the Council of State or the Stortingen to decide. Then I can mean what I want that was actually done, but the fact is that it's up to the institution and not up to me. It has been decided by the Storting, and then I must almost follow the decisions of the Storting. It is worth remembering that Nord University has teaching places in Levanger, Stjørdal, Steinkjer, Namsos and Mo in Rana as well as in Bodø, i.e. many teaching places decentralized around both central and northern Norway. It's very important that we see these things in context, and it's worth noting that one of the representative's cooperation parties is proposing to cut off all the important tools we have to be able to provide just decentralised education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2616	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2623	The importance of knowledge has never been more obvious than under a pandemic that threatens health, economy and well-being. Investment in education, research and competences will be crucial for the conversion of Norway. Nevertheless, the government of this state budget, of all things, in just higher education and research. As the fly in the ‘Waywise’ said, ‘A must be alarmed enough, a few will wake these up here!’ Equal rights to education have always been at the heart of the Workers' Party. The grass must be green to all. We will set up 3 000 new study places across the country, with emphasis on teacher training, health and social sciences, ICT, technology, sustainability and real science. Unlike the government, we are betting on lasting escalation, not just inflated capacity as long as the crisis lasts. With several places of study, people and communities can come out of this situation. We invest in the industries of the future, technology development, a sustainable society and the continued development of the welfare state's professions. There is a high level of maintenance and the need for new buildings in the university and higher education sectors. We are calling for a plan to expand, upgrade and maintain knowledge building across the country. The government cuts the upgrade options. Against the sector’s protests, the government is also making quite a flat budget cut in the university and higher education sectors and is suffocating the ABE situation in the last interview. We return half and promise that when the Workers' Party joins the government, it will be a complete end to the ABE-cut. Students are weak in both the housing and labour markets. The Labour Party was the first party to program 3,000 student homes, and we have since followed up in all budgets. We keep our promises. The government doesn't even have the ability to build what Stortinget decides. Many students need financial help from home, and students are very vulnerable to mental health problems. The Labour Party will avoid the social imbalance of the pandemic and has repeatedly asked the government to ensure economic crisis support. Now it may seem that the Council of State is reluctant to follow. We're quadrupling the commitment to mental health, to $40 million. kr. The only dangerous path to migration and growth for Norway will go through research, education, development and innovation. We strengthen the research budget considerably and will have more to do with, among other things. climate, sustainability and development of society and welfare countries. We're proposing to re-prioritize 150 million. through new programmes in the Research Council and will set up new top research centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2638	This has been a challenging year, and everyone in Norwegian school has worked hard and changed overnight, while many families have known about the insecurity of the body. Many have been outsourced and seen the job and the apprenticeship disappear. Therefore, the education promise is the most important matter in this budget. More than 25 000 people will be offered more skills and education, more will be required to take a professional letter to work, more will complete secondary school, and while some have spoken about vocational schools, we have acted: Recordmange is now receiving a vocational school position. 2021 will hopefully be the year we go back to normal, "with blank sheets and pencil plates". But it'll probably be a new normal, because we don't know all the costs of the pandemic. Many children and young people are struggling and have ended up in the subjects at school, and many teachers are very tired. It has therefore never been more important than now that we politicians give priority to school. It's professionally up-to-date teachers, it's early reading, writing and billing, and it's closer follow-up of young people at risk of falling off. Here, there's a real disagreement between the opposition and the position. The main school commitments of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are consistently about everything other than the professional content of the school, and even with strong tax increases in the middle of a pandemic, they are not close to fulfilling them. The representative Gahr Støre has promised a leisure reform at school that would save parents from the pastime. According to the Ministry of Finance, it costs up to 20 billion. kr. The working party grants a total of NOK 0. SV spent all his time talking about SFO and all day school and thought it was fair when it was pointed out that the bill was not paid. The problem is that when you donate $3 per student every day to introduce all-day school, it doesn't get very much physical activity, cultural activity, and homework. The promises of school food, SFO and physical activity are so expensive that it is going to eat up the school budgets to the left for many years. My concern is that there will be no money left to bet on good teachers, early work and reading and calculation training. Luckily, you might say, the SV and the Workers' Party are going to cooperate with the Centre Party, which will remove national tests and secrecy, and then, in the short term, you might not see the consequences of this error priority. Norwegian students learn more, finish more, and the subject renewal will help the subjects become more experiential and practical, but we have 10,000 children who leave school without being able to read and calculate well enough. Then we have to give priority to the most important thing. If someone today asks me ‘Mathilde, Mathilde, why are you so happy?’ it’s because right-wing consistent rates of the most important thing for students’ learning, because it’s also the most important thing for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2652	No matter where you live in the world, access to school and education is a key element in the struggle to balance class distinctions between individuals. Every harvest starts over 60,000 expectant children on their first day of school in Norway. In order to ensure a good start to the long school run, we need to recognise that there is no difference between well-being and learning. "There was a little boy who went and cried and was so tired. The hen was to draw Babylon, but the teacher's hen said no;' The teacher was probably so concerned about the right-wing government's mass of testing, goals and results management that he forgot to see the whole student. The working party will take a settlement with the wrong belief on the right that more testing of students will provide more learning. Early effort, so that each individual experiences mastering and joy, is essential to prevent school dropout. The school's main mission is to ensure that all children are seen, heard and trained well. The school must be suitable for everyone. It's not the kids who have to adapt to school. The Labour Party will provide children and young people with a school with more physical activity and practical and adapted teaching where all students meet qualified teachers with time and confidence in good follow-up and varied teaching. That is why the Labour Party proposes over 400 million. for a reinforced commitment to several qualified teachers at school in the financial year 2021. Each year there are 6,000 to 7 000 unskilled young people. At the same time, LO and NHO say that Norway will lack 88 000 skilled workers in 2035. This will weaken the competitiveness of industry and the quality of our welfare services. Norway needs more proud trade union workers. 'You'll get one day in the moon', you'll be an apprentice and a tradesman, because we'll spend 250 million. new and modern equipment, more professional trainers and a national apprenticeship guarantee. From being a proud professional, it is also important that many more take on higher vocational education. Therefore, it is very disappointing that the government will not provide 1 000 new post-secondary education places in 2021, as the Stortinget has decided. It's in the municipalities people live and live their lives. The working party proposes 2.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities. It is the municipalities that build and operate our welfare services, and then it is completely incomprehensible that the government does not grant more money so that the quality of kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly can be strengthened and developed. But in reverse countries, there can be anything going on, there they're just like a thug and weird all the man.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2672	An important learning venue, especially for young people, is the Peace and Human Rights Centres in Norway. All students should be given the opportunity to visit such a centre when they go to high school, to learn about important events in our close history. Norwegian war history is knowledge we can't let go of. These important centres contribute to research, documentation and dissemination. A unanimous committee now supports the establishment of a register at the Narvik Centre of Norwegian Soldiers who participated in the struggles over Norway during the Second World War. Around 25 000 Norwegian soldiers from all over the country participated, and this register will give us the opportunity to raise these in a better and new way. The Narvik Center applied for 2.2 million. kr to start working with this register. There was room for the Progress Party in its alternative budget, but unfortunately the government said no in the negotiations. However, the fact that a unanimous committee is now so clear and calls on the Ministry to assess funding solutions is very good. So I would like to thank the whole Committee for the support and the job that has been done. With this as a back carpet, it was therefore really joyous news that came in Prop. 44 S for 2020-2021, which we also deal with today. It has been recognised that the peace and human rights centres have also had economic challenges due to covid-19, and have increased the grant to the Narvik Centre by 1 million. kr and the grant to the Falstad Centre of 500 000 kr. But the centers also need a lasting increase, so I expect that we'll come back to it on a later occasion. The Narvik Centre has experienced a significant decline in cruiseturists in Narvik, and the Falstad Centre has seen a large increase in the number of school classes. As they are financed from the Ministry of Knowledge’s budget, they fall in a way between two chairs in relation to the various compensation schemes we have had, even though they have had the same challenges as, for example: the museums for the disposal of ordinary ticket receipts and shop sales. All of these centres we have to take good care of, and I therefore ask the Council of State to raise this issue especially the next time the government discusses the compensation schemes, so that these centres too will have the opportunity to apply for compensation and extra support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2687	In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget for 2021, the competent labour market is an area of activity – because we need it. Competitive employees are Norway’s foremost asset in global competition. It says all the experts, it's a characteristic of the Norwegian welfare and social model, based on the tripartite cooperation we've developed ever since the interwar period. The day we take competent workers as a matter of course, it is a danger. The industry in Norway is largely export oriented and struggling, not initially because of the corona, but at the same time reinforced by the pandemic. Then it is important to strengthen our foremost advantage, competent employees, but I wonder if the government parties have taken this on board. I refer to a note that the Workers' Party unfortunately stands alone on: «The members of the Labour Party Committee are committed to strengthening the link between business and higher education and follow with interest The University of Southeast Norway's development of a so-called master of industry in Kongsberg. These members are in favour of such a project, developed on the recommendation of both the NHO and industry, and refer to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, where 3 000 new study places are proposed in 2021. These members also see the value of piloting a support scheme for companies that have students employed in a 50 pst. post over three years.» In 2019, Kongsberg received the Education Quality Award, which goes to excellent, innovative education that is of a lasting nature. The industry and the educational environment at Kongsberg now want to further develop and escalate this in favour of not only Kongsberg, but for the entire industry in Norway, where engineering training is given a new dimension, with engineers trained through development projects in cooperation between educational institutions and the enterprises concerned. Kongsberg Industrial Leadership Forum has asked the Council of State to support the further funding of the Industrial Masters Programmes. I wonder what the Council of State has intended to answer that question. All the parties on the Buskerud bench have received the same information, including the Right parliamentary leader. Why is it just the Workers' Party that answers? It is difficult to interpret the silence of the Right, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and SV as other than a lack of understanding of the crisis facing the Norwegian industry now, including the Kongsberg industry. Buskerud Arbeiderparti and the Workers' Party's large-scale group listen to the warning and good input of the industry, the trade movement and the education system. But unfortunately, it looks like we're standing alone about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2705	The debate on decentralised higher education will become interesting in the years ahead. It's good to be able to rely on these NOUs that have now arrived. Victor Norman’s selection makes it quite clear that educational institutions are an important prerequisite for growth in the region in which they are located. The proximity of educational institutions increases recruitment to education, leading to more people in a region receiving education. I think the council too little with harelab about it when he said in the reply that this was primarily about flexible offers and decentralised education. No, it's about more than that. It is about the fact that places of study must exist and that places of study must not be bottled up for offers. The centre party has consistently considered that the organisation of higher education and places of study is not a topic that should be left to the individual institution alone, but also a theme that needs overall political governance. One of the main criticisms of the entire structural reform in 2015 was that a lot was governing, that one handed it over to the institutions. Then, to be honest, there was a bit of a mix of it, both in terms of education and research, and also in terms of the question of decentralisation and district orientation. I live in the Nordic University impact field. They've tapped Namsos for study offers, they've tapped Steinkjer for study offers. They picked 300 million. kr from Nesna, and then they put down the Nesna. The pull to get more and more to Bodø is there all the time. Governments clearly believe that Diku is engaged in decentralised education. They don't. They have received funding from the government to work on the problem, but what they do first and foremost is to contribute to an increasing bureaucracy in the university and higher education sectors, which both governs and overlaps and makes it difficult for universities. The universities are very clear on this. The centre party believes that one must guarantee that no places of study will be laid down, and we also believe that one must require universities and colleges to have a decentralised education offer. Otherwise, I think the debate is largely influenced by the fact that the position is talking about things other than its own policy. They often talk about the opposition's error. The council even thought that the lack of recruitment to teacher training was the fault of the opposition because we were black-painting. I think the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde is irreparable when she says that the centre party has gone in to report us out of TIMSS. We've never done that. I understand that the Right might want us to go in for it, but we haven't. We think it's a research-based project every four years that's useful. On the other hand, we are very critical for other types of screening — PISA, national samples and not least the samples presented in the newspaper’s review today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2722	Almost twice as many students have applied for deferral of payments in the Loan Fund as at the same time last year. Over 40 pst. have been used by own savings to cope financially with the pandemic. One in three has received financial help from home. It's not as easy if my dad's on leave and my mom's working part-time. Nevertheless, the Right-Registration will not create a crisis package as monks. All they suggested was an extra loan. It's like giving credit cards to the unemployed. What was a bad solution, however, was 50,000 applying. It says something about the seriousness of the students. When the students go to the university gate on the first day, they take up a student loan when they are written in. In addition, they have part-time jobs that contribute to petting, So they have gathered enough for Tuborg, and for bread. But when the corona came, the part-time job fell away, And in the government they thought a lot of things quickly. We have the solution, we're just using tetanus. We'll just give them extra loans, and they'll probably shut up. Because in the government, everything can go on, They're just as messy and weird all the men. But that's the way the government does it, that's not how it is here. In the Workers' Party we start with the most important thing for everyone. Here you not only get loans, but also more money, and a roof over the head is what the students need. But in the government, everything can go on. The pandemic may be long-lasting, but the state council is reluctant to wait. The Workers' Party believes that new crisis support is needed as monks for the spring semester 2021. Now it's almost Christmas. I hope the Council of State will make a promise and a date such that the students who are in danger will not wait in the dark for something that should have been a reality for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2774	During this period, there has been a clear focus on the importance of education and research. We rely on the institutions in the higher education and research sectors when we refer to the important societal mission of the institutions and their contribution to solving the major global challenges. The development of new technologies and services is central to future value creation, and the continuation of 4000 study places, among others. in the field of mathematical science and technology was very important. 250 recruitment posts created in the Spring 2020 Education Plan are also continuing in 2021. The continuation of MARCOM2020 and the further strengthening of maritime education and research must also be mentioned in the budget. We see that there is a great need for upgrading and modernising construction and infrastructure. It is therefore proposed to cover, inter alia: The Viking Age Museum, new life sciences building at the University of Oslo and further pre-projecting of new campus to NTNU. Student welfare has been on the agenda for the entire period, and student representatives, parental representatives, record bets on student housing and eleven months of student support must be lifted. The government's commitment to students' mental health over the year must also be mentioned. The commitment to research and the revision of a new long-term research and education plan has been solid. The three roadmaps for technology engagement, R & D for industrial renewal and transition and quality in higher education are central. Increased basic funding for research institutes is also joyous. It is important that the government has now confirmed its commitment to Norwegian participation in Horizon Europe, the world’s largest research and innovation programme, and Digital Europe, which will support digital transformation in a broad sense. Incentives for increased EU participation for research institutes have been fully central to providing a predictable framework for participation in Horizon 2020 and have partially compensated for the costs of participation. The STIM-EU Facility will also be essential for participation in Horizon Europe, so that institutions can continue to be an engine in the Union participation of Norwegian enterprises. Then it will be a joy to see that education and research seem to be at a low end during the budgetary negotiations with the Progress Party in this last financial year. Cut to STIM-EU, NOCUT, Research Council, Research Infrastructure, Scientific Prizes and further increase in ABE cuts for the whole sector are difficult to defend. However, the Progress Party shall ‘get a day in a nutshell that is clean and unused’, where representatives Steffensen and Süttar can correct all ‘errors from yesterday’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2789	The government will build 1,650 new student homes in 2021, which is almost a halve of the goal from last year. The level of ambition of the government has fallen to something that can only be called a minimum, and it's not just SV that means. This has resulted in criticism from several teams, among others. from the Norwegian Student Organisation. Every year, thousands of students are in the queue after the start of their studies, and these are being pushed into the private housing market, which is already too bad and too expensive. The housing market has become a major driver of increasing differences in Norway, where housing is something you wonder about, not something you live in. In smaller cities too, the pressure on the private housing market is high and the rental prices are high. The government makes several excuses to explain why they do not want to build more student homes. Everyone needs a place to live and living expenses you can live with, including students. We probably all remember here in the hall what it was like to have to turn the crown when we were students, to find money for fixed expenses. SV believes that the possibility of taking education should be for the many, not just for the few. The size of the parents' wallet should not be essential for education, nor for a place to live during education. Therefore, SV will build 4,000 new student homes next year. Unfortunately, today's students have received an extra burden this year; students are one of the groups that have lost during the coronary crisis, which has lost extra jobs and thus extra income. The fact that the government does not increase the support for the study this year is shameful and shows that they have not heard the students’ cries for help. The study support is currently set up so that the students will work alongside the studies to get their lives around. When numbers show that about 23 pst. fewer jobs are available in the labour market now, it is clear that it is no longer possible for all students to work alongside the study. So yesterday the news came that, after long-term pressure from students and the opposition, the minister of higher education and research would still see if there was a scheme for students who have lost their painfully needed extra income during the coronary crisis. For the crisis did not end for the students in June when the scheme of extra loans and scholarships to students stopped; the crisis continues to occur to the greatest extent. Therefore, the signals about the extension were long-lasting, but it is sad that students were intentionally sent out into financial troubles before the Right bothers to investigate this. But I'll choose to be happy now and say that this came late, but well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2802	As Prøysen's teddy bear was ill with longing each time the carousel went, so the representative Turid Kristensen rejoiced to the budget debate of the year. A boring cold and precautions due to the pandemic stacking of heads in the wheels this time. I can take on the role of Marian and make sure that Kristensen does not completely lie in a pit, but gets to be in the budget carousel in some way anyway, by raising her contributions on the field of higher education and professional education in this year's debate. One of the most important areas of activity for the Right and the Government is to ensure that more students complete secondary education and that more students complete a letter of formal education or a letter of study. The Coronapandemic has had its consequences for high school students as well. Fortunately, the Right and the Government have not only pulled the crack away the glass and sat down to see it. Instead, the government was quickly on the road with a powerful package of measures to ensure that high school students were also helped to complete. A total of $2.50. SEK was set aside for the Education Plan 2020. Budget measures shall ensure that more people are given the opportunity to complete, obtain a training course and are given the opportunity to take a professional letter, and measures are taken to ensure that trainees are on leave. I have registered that several people express concern that one of the measures, a letter from the school, will become a rest cushion and replace the job so that all qualified students can get a place to study, and I can assure you that this is not the intention. Learning places should still be the goal, not through a national learning place guarantee, for which the Workers' Party and the SV are in charge – although this was both investigated and rejected as a solution under the Stoltenberg Government – for apprenticeships cannot be adopted, they must be created. And the Right and Government policies facilitate that precisely, through good and predictable framework conditions for our businesses, by investing in the professions. But we owe to those who haven't got a place to teach, an offer that's as good as possible. School degrees are just that, a measure to help companies be more involved, for example: as instructors in Vg3 through practical sites. We know from experience that students who meet the companies during Vg3 are more likely to get a place of study during the year and take on an ordinary apprenticeship. On the right, there are major ambitions for the announced high school survey coming to spring, which will be an important contribution to strengthening upper secondary education in general, and vocational education in particular. In conclusion, I want to give young people our honor for the way they have dealt with this pandemic. They have sacrificed a lot, but they need to know that we are going to get through this, and that they are going to “get one day in a row that is clean and unused”. Even if there is a 'homper and dump in our box' right now, this is going to be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2817	Some words about our students: the infectious disease makes us keep away from each other, and the new pandemic has created too many more solitude. We endure as much as we can through digital meetings, but we lack touch, facial expressions and all the little things that create closeness and understanding in the physical encounters between people. Loneliness has changed the status of everyone, from being defined as a personal problem to now being about society and how we choose to organise it. I'm worried about our students. I'm worried that completely necessary infection prevention measures over a long period of time make many students feel lonely and struggling with motivation. In this budget, the government proposes to increase the funding for student relations by 20 million. kr to strengthen the student welfare offer, e.g. the mental health service. A total of 104.8 million is allocated. kr, and there are important crowns and ears. Spring and autumn have been demanding for this group, and we see that they have to live on with the infectious measures for a long time. This means that we need to plan how to follow up students in the short and longer term in order to take care of their mental health, and that they do not fall off education and lose motivation. Student relations are particularly important in this work. It also meant the group of experts who looked at this now in the autumn. They evaluated different models that could allow students to be followed up in the best possible way, with measures such as: to establish centres for cooperation between institutions, student partnerships and students, where they plan together how best to follow up students, by offering alternative training services to students in cooperation with other actors, such as student sports and local youth, and by providing good access to mental health care in cooperation with the municipality. In the government's last crisis package, therefore, there was a 10 But not everything can be solved with money. We must also dry to be fellow human beings for each other. A smile and a conversation can also be some of the medicine for increased solitude among students. I will give tribute to the Council of State to rapidly establish this group of experts, who could come up with good and absolutely necessary measures to address some of the acute challenges many students have encountered during the pandemic. First comes Christmas, and on Christmas Eve students should also be ‘happy’. But soon it's actually summer, and then I really hope that 'the grass is green for bad'.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2828	In its hundred-year existence, the Centre Party has fought for popular government, against the ministry, for the workers in the first line and against bureaucracy. The government of Solberg has been committed to ABE cut. But what is the real standing after seven years? The centre party has asked the Ministry of Finance. Well, it turns out that while the government has introduced an accumulated cut to universities and colleges of 1.5 billion. kr, grows red tape. In the Department of Knowledge, it seems to be 10 pst. More employees now than in 2013, in the Education Directorate, there appears to be as much as 30 pst. Several employees, while in NOKUT there are almost twice as many, while the use of consultants is almost doubled – based on the forecasts we have received from the Ministry of Finance. This is mildly unmusical when universities and colleges kittens so it goes on subject and health loose. I have to comment on a point from the debate. The right-hand person says from the pulpit that they were almost alone in dealing in the matter for the colleges. It's directly wrong. The majority of the population defeated the government when, in the opposition, we secured a majority and decided to step up vocational training places with 1000 new ones in the next few years. Finally, the Central Party believes that a new government is needed from the next harvest to ensure good conditions for growth and education throughout the country. Because if the government doesn't deliver, the Center Party will stand up and say like the Little Nut: "And jump and bounce and well and hello, and four twigs divide," we sit on the stump and say, "Here I am." Because it's just the Center Party that works for better social and geographical cohesion, with good services close to people, among other things. Ensured with decentralised education and a strengthened local economy that enables the efforts we want for kindergarten and school to be made throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2839	I would like to start with two quite concrete challenges to the Asheim Council. The first one is about colleges. For the government, it has been determined that needs are essential for fresh resources and places for the vocational schools. The Board of Education is now clearly aware that there is a greater need than space in 2021, to which the representative Arnstad referred. One must now terminate any agreement of intent. Does that mean, then, that you can guarantee that there will be money revised when there is a need? The second is this student crisis package. It's just as serious for the students now as it was in the spring, and just days after the 600 million that were assigned to students disappeared, the council says that there might now be a new order. I am pleased with the movement, but that is not good enough, and I hope the Council of State can give some clearer answers before Christmas on what can come. There is no money set aside for this. Coping with this without money sounds a bit like a promise that can quickly end up becoming a little speck. Then I was quite shocked when I heard Melby's response to the school challenges. This government says that one should continue in the same track. It is the track that has focused on increasing the teacher’s absence with retroactive detachment, which has weakened recruitment with a rigid fourer requirement in mathematics in teacher education, which has fed the school economy and has opened the back door for unqualified people into Norwegian classrooms. This shows that we have a government that lives in reverse countries, far from reality out in schools. So I'd like to say to the representative Tybring-Gjedde that she might wish for a new calculator for Christmas, for if she had read our budget and program better, she might have saved herself both for time and not at least a lot of money. The main efforts in the Workers' Party's alternative budget are both better and cheaper kindergartens. It's one of our big bets, along with better and cheaper SFO. And one of the biggest bets is a thousand more teachers than the government – a targeted bet on what's most important for children's learning. That the Right wants to talk about completely different things is strange. Finally, I would also like to remind representatives Tybring-Gjedde and Gudmundsen, who refer to budgetary issues in this debate, that the Council of State is responding to the Stortinget, not the bureaucrats, and that we are asking the government to make estimates of costs before we look at what we are going to put into our alternative budget. And if one turns it around a little bit, I think the government parties are going to be very happy that the government's budget and not all the calculations behind it. It should be a thought of when a referee as unwise as a doer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2853	In the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2021, we propose a total of ECU 1.7 billion. kr more to kindergarten and school than the entire government does. It all says about the lack of priority of the education field from the Right, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left. The Labour Party believes that our most important investment is to invest in the growth of children and young people so that they get a good start to life. The Workers' Party will have the loopback and propose a device promise in secondary school for more practical learning, more school workshops and modern equipment and to provide students with more practical first-class learning so that children and young people will learn more with their heads and hands in different disciplines. Therefore, we will give teachers better time and more money for practical, active and playful learning. The Workers' Party will have a device promise for high school and proposes 50 million, which can contribute to local investment in several school workshops, new loopholes and refilling the natural space with equipment. The school is too sedentary, and the government is more passive than the students. It varies the amount of physical activity that students get during school. For this reason, a majority of the population has decided to come up with a scheme to ensure students from 1 to 10 steps at least 1 hour of physical activity each day within the current hour. It scares me that the right-hand government and the left-hand government are still equally passive. They also propose to repeal the decision in the State budget for 2021. This has led the Sports Association, the Cancer Association and 12 other health and sports organisations to join in the fight for more active training. Children who are active thrive better and learn better. A school to see everyone must also listen to the students who repeatedly note that the school is too theoretical, too sedentary, with a lot of teaching behind the desk – when there is room for so much more. As elected representatives, we often meet schools that really do, even though national policies are far behind. What surprises me most is that the Christian People's Party has turned around after they got space around the King's table, and will no longer implement its own policies. The Christian People's Party is suddenly concerned with having local regulations related to this with school. But in terms of character-based admissions at high school, they have gone away from local anchoring. Then this ends with the local freedom of action. By removing the secondary school principle, many young students are at risk of getting an extra long school path on worn-out, swinging and rascal roads in Kommune-Norway. «But the road is bumpy, hey where it goes, it bumps and dunks in our box. To the hompetit, the hompetat, the hompetutten theia» – so wrong can happen after seven years with different state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2870	I thought I would use the speaking time to secure Tvedt Solberg's representative for two things. One is that I have become quite good at prioritising my time, and in this case, when I was going to look at how much the vows of the Workers' Party cost in terms of school, I went into the Ministry of Finance.no, and there is a professional investigation of how much it costs. In other words, it's not Guri Melby or Asheim who's gone into and added an extra zero, it's professional investigations by the Ministry of Finance. They came to the conclusion that, for example: the commitment to extend school days and to place leisure activities in school costs up to 21 billion. kr. At least it does not cost NOK 0, as the Workers' Party has set aside in its budget. If you're going to introduce the free SFO for all first-rates, it's going to cost $1.9 billion. kr, it doesn't cost $300 million. kr. The reason I'm taking it up is not that I'm so busy with numbers, either, but when you're going to prioritize in Norwegian school, I think you should give priority to the most important thing. What I'm afraid when you miss so many billion dollars to fulfill your promises, is that either it's going to be broken promises, and it doesn't deserve the voters, or it's going to be that you downgrade professionally qualified teachers, and it doesn't deserve the students. That's exactly why we're talking about priorities – 4,000 more qualified teachers in school are due to tough priorities. The fact that over 40,000 teachers have received further training is due to tough priorities. We look around the cities now, for example. In Oslo, where you have to cut 500 million. to the school in the years to come, that it affects early efforts, it affects up-to-date teachers. In Trondheim, there has been a parent rebellion in recent years, not because of the Korona, but because over time, school has been down-prioritized and cut into teaching positions. If you ask parents and students in Oslo, in Trondheim, in Bodø and in Tromsø, I think they'll prefer a bet on good teachers and content in teaching instead of new promises about school food and all day school. One thing is heads and ears, but what makes me even more concerned is that the center party will remove transparency about how things are going at school. It's great that they don't want to remove TIMSS, but you want to remove PISA, even if there's really no difference between the two, it's international research and the same national tests. What you're actually saying is that you call it trust when Centerpart-led municipalities are allowed to keep secret how things are going in their schools, while you don't have the confidence that teachers can choose their own teaching arrangements, because there you have to govern them in 60 minutes of physically active tasks, and then you give a total of DKK 100 per teacher to complete the next year. That's the Central Party's answer to the teachers at school. I don't call that trust, I think it's a down-priority of knowledge that makes it worse for schools to learn from each other, and it doesn't benefit the students. It's the students we have to think about every time we prioritize a penny on this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2890	Let me first address some of the direct questions I have received during the debate. There were two questions from the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg. One was about student economics. It is worth remembering that when we shut down on 12 March, it meant a lot of unemployment, but also that many students worked in sectors that were shut down, for example. in the nursery sector. The first thing we did was April 15th was to pay out the entire amount left on the student loan, just to make sure there's money coming, it's going to be possible to pay your rent next month, etc. Then we created this supplementary loan, which Stortinget granted another billion to convert into scholarships, which was possible to apply for from May. It meant NOK 26 000, on the 12th and 13th month of the study grant, including the estimated income at work next door. This was a system that we saw extended the application deadline, because we saw that we were applying, so we extended it to 30 June. Nevertheless, there were only enough applicants to use 400 of the millions. Then, as with many different crisis packages, the money that is not spent on a package is transferred to something else. That was why this time-limited scheme went back as it did. I record that I have been called ‘Grinchen’ by the representative in the VG. I deeply disagree with that, and I don't think you think it is about any other crisis package that is underused. That being said, this harvest has had a completely different situation, both in the labour market and not least in the disease situation. It has been very distributed in such a way that somewhere locally, for example. in the big cities, there has been a lot of infection and closure, but not elsewhere. That's why we're now working – and we're also going to have a meeting with the students about it – with how we can target a package that both provides a response that they want and that hits better than the scheme did at the time. Then I just have to say to the Center Party, which, first of all, spends a lot of time talking about the ABE reform: you can be against the ABE reform – I'm very much for the ABE reform, because it's a predictable efficiency – but how can you cut 2 million? D in Competence Norway in 2021, as proposed by the Centre Party, and with it in competence policy on continuing training? How do you figure out how to cut $18 million? in Diku, which grants funds to specialised schools, higher education, for flexible education, for a year when the country is in crisis? How do you figure out how to cut 23 million? kr to Unit, which is responsible for the digital solutions, at a time when we know that very much of the teaching is going on digitally? We've now seen the back of the medal, and you've got to be against the ABE reform, but then you also have to explain where else you cut, and this is targeted with surgical precision in some of the areas that we're going to need the most. That is why I think it is much better to ensure that we have more efficiency along with budget increases. Since 2013, the budgets of the UH sector have increased by 7 billion. kr, and also next year, after the ABE cut, there is a real growth in appropriations for the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2905	I am quite certain that everyone sitting here in the hall shares the belief that there are some challenges in Norwegian schools and Norwegian kindergartens. There are still too many students who meet teachers who have not completed their education, who may not have credits in the subject in which they teach, and who may not have received either completion or basic education in what they teach. There are too many children who don't learn to read, write and calculate, and who don't have the digital skills they need, and there are too many who don't manage to complete their education. Nevertheless, I think it is important to clarify that there is a lot of good going on in Norwegian school. This is mainly due to the job done every day, both in Norwegian kindergartens, in Norwegian schools and throughout the education system. There are now fewer students per teacher than at any other time in the last ten years. The teacher’s density has increased at all stages and at most between 1 and 4. steps. In 2019, 77 pst. Of all the applicants, that's the highest proportion since we started measuring it in 2011. The number of apprentices has increased by 23 pst. since 2014. This is an important reason why the proportion of students completing secondary education in five years is the highest since the measurements also started, and it is now 78 pst. We're going to continue our work so we can get all the way up to 90 pst. 40,000 teachers have received further training since 2014, and 1,600 teachers have become teachers specialists in important areas such as: start training and other very basic things in Norwegian school. We have had more employees and more pedagogues in kindergartens in almost all the municipalities of the country, and not least over 30 000 children have had free lead time in kindergarten. That means that there are even more of those who have the greatest need to go to kindergarten, who go to kindergarten. This shows that we are on the right track in very many areas of Norwegian school and education policy, and that is because we have had very clear priorities over many, many years. We have systematically prioritised the teachers and their skills; we have systematically prioritised quality bets. So we're going to get results. Last week, the TIMSS study was presented, where we see Norwegian students performing far above the OECD average in mathematics. This isn't random. We see a clear relationship between the number of teachers who have special competence in mathematics and the results we get in school. That's why I believe what I said in my post, that the best way to continue to develop Norwegian school is that we continue to do what we know works. We're betting on the professionals, we're betting on those who work at school and in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2920	The representative of Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2925	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has counted a little in the wild cloud, and I'm not sure that the four-man requirement in math would have been achieved. SV adds to the phase-in of free school food and starts where researchers believe that the need is greatest, namely in high school students. If this is not clear enough in our alternative budget, I regret it. The same applies to physical activity. In addition, we've been able to find room for 1 billion. kr for free SFO for all first-raters. One would think that the Right had learned, after seven years in government, that one does not get to all over one budget. The right has not received further training of 40,000 teachers in one year. Unfortunately, many people are still separated, and I am afraid that the Right will not achieve its objectives by 2024, which is foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2934	I am pleased that the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde now states that the centre party is not against TIMSS, and that she has thus used an incorrect rhetoric about the centre party in this case – that is good. It is true that the Centre Party is still very sceptical about both PISA, national samples and that type of mapping. We mean it takes a lot of time, and we're struggling to see the utility of those samples. We think parents will have good learning, not always new tests that steal time and forces from individual learning. We believe that the Right's belief in standardised mappings and teacher specialists who are going to travel around and tell other teachers about how to drive learning is unnecessary. We want to make sure there are fewer unskilled people in Norwegian school. We want better continuing education. The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde very often mentions Oslo, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø, but the proportion of unskilled students who teach in Norwegian school is a huge problem. It's much more important than teachers' specialists. Today's newspaper look-up is quite alarming. A choice to conduct a screening of students without anonymity and without the consent of the supervisors. There is a lot to say about it, there are privacy issues related to this, but there is also something about the questions that are asked in such a study. Otherwise, I notice that the Right Party and the Center are in disagreement with the Directorates of Higher Education. Right wants to increase in the Directorates and cut universities. We're increasing at the universities and cutting off the directorates. That's fair, but I think the red tape you've seen in the sector in recent years is very unfortunate. Universities think it's seaworthy too. They think that these are overlapping, increasingly new reports, increasingly detailed in terms of what the directorates require of universities. It's a very unfortunate development. Finally, I would like to say, just as a remark about it with the universities, that much of the debate about the universities in this room is marked by the fact that we have never really taken the debate on what the different universities should be. Should anyone be internationally excellent, while others should not be? Are we going to have A and B universities? Should all fight by the same standards? That debate about that kind of quality and content we have never really taken, because the structure and the aggregations got in the way. I'm also worried about the students. It may have been particularly heavy for the first-year students. But I'm also quite impressed with the students, because they've resorted to cohorts and been conscientious about the situation that is, sailing if many of them certainly longs very much for normality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2951	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2956	A little comment on the post by the representative Asphjell about physical activity: this is not a question of being for or against more physical activity in school – we are all for – but what is important to get out is what the teachers are going to do about it, if you ask them. We usually listen to those who wear the shoe. Well, they want to do it, but they want to have the freedom to do it their way, so this is going to be a setup that goes with what they're doing. It has not been long since the Workers' Party proposed a trust reform for the teachers in the school in this Chamber. Now it looks like that trust doesn't go that far if you're opposed to any of the things the Labour Party is fighting for here. Upper secondary school admission scheme: Yes, a model to combine free school choice with a decentralised school structure is to be investigated. So we'll see what that investigation brings out before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2963	The representative Kent Gudmundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2969	It's trying to create a picture that we're too horribly surveyed, but it must also be timely to point out that of the 10,000 school hours you deliver during 13 years of schooling, it's 15 hours spent on these national surveys that provide us with national governance data. I believe this is a fundamental principle. It's about having that knowledge and thus being able to target the resources. When we talk about priority, it's an important area, to be able to prioritize, but I see that the red-greens are not able to do it. Good, sound calculations have been made by the Ministry of Finance on the cost of the various measures. I'm recording that you don't believe in them, and it's actually a little bit of a prudence, because we all have to deal with the same people in the department, no matter who rules in this country. The representative Mona Fagerås says they're phased in -- yeah, that's okay, but when you add 1.2 billion. And that's $37 billion. NOK, we're talking about a phase-in of almost 31 years. All in all – since this is the last debate of the Education Committee before Christmas – I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a really good new year!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2978	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2983	Listening to the representatives of the Right in this debate reminds me a little about the Little Nut. They make ‘many strange jumps from wood to wood and tribes down and up’, and ‘forgets school and everything’. Look at one on our budget, one sees the opposite. We're able to prioritise, and there's no difference, as one sees in our budget, between investing in both SFOs with price and quality and 1 000 more teachers. I understand that the Right is more interested in talking about our policies; it is much more interesting and exciting than the Right and Government. I would like to thank the Council of Asheim for the time of history. I can reassure him that I don't think he's as green as Grinchen, but I mean this government steals Christmas from the students. We now hear more and more stories that the savings for the students have been spent during the fall. We're in a hurry to get a system in place. The size is at least with whether the Council of State is up to tango for two.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2992	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e2997	I recognize and see that the Christian People's Party has gone beyond the promise to introduce one hour of physical activity for all children in school – instead of supporting a proposal to establish several private youth sports schools, which can afford it, and which have parents who can support it. The working party wants a public common school with one hour of physical activity for all pupils, so that everyone gets the right and good offer. We have good examples from Sogndal, with Geir Kåre Resaland, which shows that they will facilitate good education with physical activity in the schoolyard and in the classroom, which gives very good results. This we see that the government, with the Christian People's Party and the Left, does not want to benefit, but rather chooses to have private schools where they can get such an offer, and not all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3004	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3009	First to the representative Asphjell: It is not reliable to insist that Norwegian, math and English teachers need to spend a certain number of minutes of their education on physically active tasks, if they do not think it is pedagogical. It's the teachers who should make that decision. To the representative of Fagerås: When you increase the taxes quite heavily under a pandemic and yet only manage to grant 3 kroner to introduce full-day school, my concern is not that you break the school vow – it will probably get the voters to respond to it. My concern is that in the next few years there will be no money left to bet on good teachers, early efforts, and that is what the Right opinion is most important. Last to the representative Arnstad of the Central Party: the problem with the Central Party is not that you are skeptical about national tests and PISA, it is that you are against national tests and PISA, and that then you will also remove the tools that make people living in a community know how it goes at school to which they send their children over time. I believe that in a democratic society there should be transparency about it, and then we should rather discuss how that information can be used to develop education for the benefit of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3018	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3023	Finally, I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I also have to comment here in the end that the right has counted hours on the national surveys and tests, but forget about hours of pre- and post-work that is done in addition to those hours. So the right mind for the teachers doesn't stick deeper than that. The right also criticises, at previous speakers, the opposition’s involvement in physical activity, but is also pronounced, both in the budget setting and through the government’s efforts, for physical activity at school. They are just not in favour of the opposition's proposal for physical activity at school, or the opposition's budget proposal for increased effort for physical activity at school. However, as many have been involved, there are students, teachers, students and professionals, who make an extremely great effort and solve a demanding everyday life under the ongoing pandemic, who deserve the greatest thanks and the greatest congratulations for a Merry Christmas and a good new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3034	The representative Nina Sandberg has spoken twice earlier and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3039	I'll be brief. I think the hall agrees that research is the key to the transition Norway is going through in the future. Although we disagree with the ABE cuts, it is quite obvious that they affect the working situation of researchers and teachers. The same thing makes the pandemic and many other heavy changes in the academy, so what I want to say is that the ambitions and demands we make to researchers should be high, but they should also be realistic and take their situation into account. This is why the Workers' Party proposes an investigation into the working conditions of researchers with a view to facilitating something that is very important, namely the exercise of the research role and future recruitment. We hope to get broad support for it in a difficult time for the researchers. ‘And that it is a useful thing, no one can come from.’ I want Christmas to both the state councils and to the entire committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3049	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3054	In many ways, this has been a good debate that has produced some important differences between the different parties in the Stortinget. I think I'm good, it's okay. It's not my job to defend the budget of other parties, but when we have some government parties that so grossly underfinance a number of their promises – among other things. They're over 600 million missing. I think they should be a little careful about attacking a party like SV for SV's promises, especially when the representative from SV no longer has any speaking time left. That seems to me to be a bad rhetorical grip, simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3061	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3074	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3083	Case No. 1–16 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 33 to 48. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3097	A total of 50 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-14, by Espen Barth Eide on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 15-19, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 20 and 21, from Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 22–49, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 50, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 29 has changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The decision requests the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to wind up the search fusion scheme and by 1 March 2021 at the latest.’ First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 50, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the following for development projects on Norwegian continental shelf: The Government agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2021 may authorise projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions: [[plans for deployment/installation and operation]] The project must not have any principal or social implications. The maximum total investment per project amounts to 7 billion. krones. Each project must show high socio-economic profitability and be robust against climate risks and changes in oil and gas price developments.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3146	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests electrification on all expansion projects on Norwegian soil during 2021 and report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3161	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and No 24–49, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and put in place tools to reduce the flare on Norwegian soil during 2021 and to report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all contracts relating to petroleum expansions to be dealt with in the Storting are awaited before they are concluded by the Storting.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of the award of the extraction and exploration permits on a Norwegian base and the appropriate notification back to Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The budget requires the government to test all applications for the extension of permits to extract climate risks and to ensure that those who are not profitable in a scenario where the Paris Agreement is reached are not granted an extended authorisation.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report on the profitability development of all individual fields under development, as well as on the government’s prospects for revenue from the fields. The first reporting shall be carried out through the revised national budget 2021.’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the profitability of the Norwegian community base and to carry out a climate risk assessment for all areas in a scenario where the world reaches the Paris agreement. The investigation needs to be presented as a self-declaration in the spring of 2021.» Proposal No. 29 sounds in modified form: ‘The decision requests the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to wind up the search fusion scheme and by 1 March 2021 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Board agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2021 may: 3. enter into an agreement with Fortum Oslo Heat in line with the principles described below. 1840 CO 2 handling, entry 72 Longships – capture and storage of CO 2 and in Message. St. 33 Longitudinal vessels - capture and storage of CO 2, where the maximum aid granted by the State may be up to: [[2019-2020]] This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. $4,300 million. EUR 2021 in investments b. $2,500 million. SEK 2021 in operating costs up to 10 years with the addition of any additional aid for non-eligible captured CO 2 corresponding to the allowance price per tonne of CO 2 less any CO 2 charge per tonne.’;» [[CAPEX]] [[OPEX]] Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and implement more stringent environmental requirements for industry during 2021 and to report them back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking the district heating industry to convert the district heating from gas to electricity and to convert the use of fossil oil into bio during 2021 and to report it back to Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government requests the use and incorporation of charcoal in the industry during 2021 and to report it back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a ban on fossil gas for heating by 2025 during 2021 and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and impose a ban on the use of fossil fuels in construction sites during 2021 and to report them back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and impose mandatory low- and zero-emission solutions for supply ships and workboats during 2021 and to report them back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: «The Government requests the electrification of non-road machinery in public tenders during 2021 and to report it back to the Storting appropriately.» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of withdrawal of methane from old landfills during 2021 and to report it back to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to investigate and implement a subsidy scheme for the replacement and prohibition of polluting furnaces in high-air pollution zones during 2021 and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’; Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of the zero emission requirement for cruise boats and other tourist boats in the World Heritage fjords from 2026 to all Norwegian fjords and to report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner during the spring of 2021.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government asks for the protection of Børgin in Trøndelag as promised in the submission to the State budget for 2020’.» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward legislative proposals to halt the construction of ants during the spring of 2021.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to add global emissions cuts as a separate performance target for Enova during 2021 and to report them back to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to extend Enova’s support scheme to include grants to make the collection of methane from landfills more profitable during 2021 and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in a new four-year agreement with Enova to increase the sum allocated to a rights-based scheme for energy measures in households to a minimum of 500 million. the appropriate amount of and return to Stortinget. It also needs to be extended by new measures, including support for step-by-step structural measures. Lawyers’ associations must become their own target group in Enova.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ban on the sale of fossil cars by 2025 if the objective Stortinget has been adopted has not been achieved by 2025.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that ships in ports must be emission-free or connected to shore-side electricity.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government requests double Enova’s support rates for domestic energy measures, including for solar energy.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that housing law laws and communities become its own target in Enova’s programme.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3339	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for a strong increase in the long-term carbon absorption in Norwegian forest areas. In addition to a more detailed plan for forest planting on new areas, the plan must assess the value creation measures and concrete climate measures that can help forestry achieve the emission targets.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government requests the allocation of more resources to the Natural Information Centres directly to the centres on the basis of the dimension of the authorisation, by reflecting the 5-year plan drawn up by the authorisation and in proportion to the total responsibility of each visiting centre. This must be designed in a way that redistributes resource use from project writing and application processing to direct activity as neutral knowledge intermediaries, in line with Norway’s National Parks brand.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3362	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15-19, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking municipalities and county councils to provide sufficient financial space to meet complex needs and challenges arising from population change and climate change, and to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to increase the use of performance-based acquisitions instead of price-based acquisitions during 2021 and to report back appropriately to the Storting.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to investigate and impose requirements for higher marketing requirements for advanced biofuels during 2021 and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to give the municipalities the opportunity to say no to cruise traffic calls and to report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner during 2021.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking how a system for the development of high-speed chargers can be established to compensate for installation costs in excess of a ‘normal’ cost.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3402	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to issue a ban on the use of fossil fuels in industry during 2021 and to report them back to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3417	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 to 4 and points 6–14, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that climate accounts are drawn up for all State activities from 2021.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce climate management requirements into the pollution law.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research acquires knowledge of the state of nature at municipal level, so that municipalities are given a better knowledge base on which land management is based.’ [[NINA]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government requests that emission-free public procurement construction sites be required by the government during 2021 and report back to the Storting appropriately.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests regulatory requirements for emission-free public transport for all future tenders during 2021 and shall report them back to the Storting appropriately.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a national action plan to reduce the maintenance and upgrading needs of public sector construction and infrastructure during 2021 and to report back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that restoration of nature and diversity of species in and along watercourses is ensured through the upcoming watercourse conditional audits’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for improved logistics and increased efficiency of machinery in construction sites by reducing the use of diesel in plant machinery.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various tax models to be identified by the government on the extraction of virgin natural resources during 2021 and to report them back to the Storting appropriately.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the municipalities to support local waste landfills while imposing stricter requirements on the maintenance of installations for increased methane take-offs.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to ensure that no tax exemption is granted for biofuels with a high deforestation risk, both inside and outside the placing on the market.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to present in the revised national budget for 2021 a proposal to exempt the placing on the market of advanced biofuels in addition to the turnover requirement.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3493	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to increase conditional co-financing for Fortum Oslo Heat its fishing facility to 4,5 billion. crowns.’» [[OFV]] The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e3510	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e7220	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e7232	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e7464	It shall be counted first over I to XXXIX and XLI and XLII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e7478	It's then voted over C XL.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e7495	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9162	A total of 40 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-27, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 28, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 29-32, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 33 and 34, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 35–37, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 38 to 40, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for basic support to the Norwegian Academy of Science for Polar Research to maintain the activity of the Academy at the latest in the revised national budget for 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9200	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38 and 39, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure a 100-billion grant. multi-ministerial crowns for a universally adapted new building to be completed in the autumn of 2024. It should also be assessed whether State Building can be responsible for the construction.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a start-up grant to the Arctic Museum of Norway at the latest in the State budget for 2022.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9224	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals to finance ViteMeir in the revised national budget for 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9241	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 36, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the call for continuing training means do not favour individual theoretical subjects but to meet the real need for continuing training in the broadest range of subjects.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: «The government asks the government to set aside 500 million. crowns of the total means of continuing training of teachers for school-based skills enhancement related to the introduction of the new profession.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9266	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 and 34, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that manual therapists are included in line with the chiropractors in establishing a five-year master’s training.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the working conditions of technology transfer offices and to ensure flexible financing at the earliest stage of a commercialisation process. If this funding goes away, the pace of innovation will be reduced and Norway will be less commercialised out of the research of its public research institutions. This must be seen in the context of the government's review of the economic instrument.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9290	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29–32, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify the plans for the Free Digital Arena initiative in initial training and the impact this has on the diversity and quality of the provision of digital learning material.’ [[Frida]] Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a comprehensive plan for the development of SFO staff competence at the latest in the revised national budget for 2021, including an overview of the competences of SFO staff. The plan shall ensure that professional workers in the SFO are provided with vocational education services in line with the vocational worker in the kindergarten through the competence of the future kindergarten, and include a plan for financing vocational education in the upper secondary education sector, and ensure that more people are given the opportunity to take professional letters at work.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that funding is provided for training in maritime secondary school in Southern Sweden from the autumn of 2021 in the revised national budget for 2021, provided that a new school ship is put in place to replace the former school ship MS Seagoing.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals to cover the underfunded fifth year of primary school teacher training, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9324	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal that special education facilities should be able to accompany the student in time for company training.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9341	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a safe advance in the realisation of talent centres in real science nationally.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9358	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 5 and points 7–27, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the 2022 municipal proposal to fund its own target form groups in secondary schools in municipalities where there are both nine-norse and book-meal students in primary schools.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the proposal for a new training law proposing the right to be trained in their own writing language throughout primary school.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for clear responsibilities for the follow-up of students in higher education as sons in prison.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that training and studies in criminal matters are organised in the same way as students and students outside prison. This concerns in particular digital opportunities and resources for follow-up and guidance.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to monitor the availability of rooms and equipment for practical and aesthetic subjects in primary school.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the continuing training provision of teachers in physical active learning.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to return to the Stortinge with proposals for the future organisation and funding of the cultural heritage schools, in order to safeguard Norway’s intangible cultural heritage in the future.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a strategy for skilled workers in kindergarten with the necessary measures to ensure sufficient skilled workers in all kindergartens. The strategy should include minimum objectives and measures for recruiting children’s and youth workers, adequate apprenticeships, organisation for more people to take professional letters at work, and a systematic effort to develop skills for professionals in kindergarten. The strategy must be based on a clear objective of how the competence of child and youth workers and other skilled workers, together with other groups of professions in kindergarten, should be used to provide children with the best possible range of services.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to make an overall assessment of the rates and funding system in higher vocational education [[tertiary schools]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a national vocational school ombudsman.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner and, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget for 2021, proposing an amendment to the grant model so that public higher education institutions can apply for investment grants at specific additional costs in order to meet universal design requirements.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to promote its own case for the Grand Duchy in relation to the student’s conduct of studies and, in the submission, to do its best for the assessments and consequences of the amended conversion scheme for the conversion of loans into student scholarships.’; Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to carry out an investigation into the working conditions and career development of researchers across the research sector.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget for 2021, to draw up an investment plan, a chain of investments and major construction and maintenance projects for construction in the university and higher education sectors.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in discussions with the Högskulen in Volda in order to find a solution whereby the university itself finances investments in inventories and equipment up to a limit of 30 million. kronor deducted from the cost of the rental of the completed currant project for new media building.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work on the design of a new research vessel with the aim of replacing today’s vessel ‘Helmer Hansen’ by 2026.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive efforts to address the challenges that hamper or halt new student housing projects. To the extent that climate requirements favour projects, this is assumed to be compensated, or otherwise prevented, for example by an increased cost framework.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked to provide a plan for increasing the coverage of student housing and to ensure that funds for new construction can also be used for the rehabilitation of existing student housing.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a comprehensive review of economic and legal barriers for foreign students and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for simplification.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify the legislation on the work of students abroad and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner, proposing that foreign students be able to work alongside the studies without risking losing their place in the Norwegian population’. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the State budget for 2021 with proposals to ensure a predictable basic funding of the infrastructure and the organisation of study provision through local study and training centres.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how study centres, career guidance and further provision of services in county municipalities can be strengthened in order to ensure better access to education throughout the country and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking, as part of the knowledge base for the revision of the Long-term Plan for Research and Higher Education, for the framework conditions of Norwegian institutes compared to those of other European countries and for assessing whether the long-term plan should contain a stepping-up plan for basic funding to the institutes.’; Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the revision of the national budget to come back to the Storting with a review of the impact of the changes in the grant and loan schemes for secondary education students since 2014 and an assessment of whether the level of the device timing respects the principle of equal rights to education.’;» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary adjustments to the secondary education grant scheme, so that students in secondary schools with a high degree of attention to protective equipment or other equipment/materials necessary to follow the training are fully covered.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive package of measures to make it easier to be a student with children.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e9506	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e12666	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e12678	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e12694	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e14426	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e14438	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e14537	The President proposes that referendum case 188 be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee. Mr Myhrvold has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e14542	We asked for urgent treatment of this matter because there were signs that the concession would be given before the New Year. Now we have been told that this will pull something more out in time. We then take note of the Presidency's decision, but we also assume that the government and the Council of State have such great respect for the Storting that the committee is awaited.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e14547	Then the representative has made the views of the Centre Party clear. The President's proposal for the reading of Minutes 188 has been unanimously adopted and the proposal for a representative will be sent to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Further references were made: 3rd@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Mr Per Espen Stoknes on the protection process of selected sacred mountains in Sami culture (Document 8:80 S [[189]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : To be sent to the Family and Culture Committee. 4th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Marit Arnstad, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Bengt Fasteraune and Ole André Myhrvold to secure traditional and craft trades as carriers of Norwegian cultural heritage (Document 8:81 S [[190]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : Sent to the Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-14.ana.ud115e14567	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
