ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e39	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State of Olaug Vervik Bollestad, Ingvil Smines Tybring-Gjedde and Dag-Inge Ulstein will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e48	One of the absolute highest qualities of Norwegian agriculture is that we use the country's resources not only where it is optimal but also where there are more marginal areas, so that the whole country's resources are used. That is why my question goes to the Minister of Agriculture, for agriculture throughout the country, with milk and meat production, is a very clearly expressed political desire and a goal. Over the last few weeks, we have witnessed the fact that the Agricultural Cooperation, Nortura and TINE are decommissioning and decommissioning several places in the country. At Ottawa, the slaughterhouse is closed to Nortura, a corner stone company where 63 employees now lose their jobs. The fact that the Gudbrand valley is standing without a slaughterhouse, one of the densest animal areas in the country, is completely incomprehensible, and it has created a great uprising, which we can read about in today's nation. In the class struggle yesterday, we could read that TINE, as a result of the restructuring they have to undergo, cancels a total of 430 employees. The structuralisation and centralisation of the food industry are of concern and are across the objectives of the Workers' Party, because industry and production are closely linked and interdependent. In the Workers' Party we now ask ourselves the question: What is the government doing in the situation we're in? I hope that the Minister of Agriculture agrees with the Labour Party that we should increase Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. Then we really need a shift in policy and an active commitment to ensure more jobs in the food industry around the country – we do not need fewer. We may now need more than ever a Council of States that sees the context. My question is therefore: what will the Council of State do now to ensure the framework conditions for the Norwegian food industry, so that we will also have an industry producing Norwegian food throughout the country in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e59	Norway is dependent on farming throughout the country. At the same time, Norwegian agriculture is built up with cooperative models owned by agriculture itself, in order to ensure milk processing, meat processing and the slaughterhouse industry. Nortura on the Otta is owned by the farmers themselves. I've never deliberately entered into the cooperative model. I don't think the Workers' Party has done that for as long as I've known the party. What matters to me is that the framework conditions are present. When Nortura now chooses to take the drastic step that they are taking at Otta, I believe that the board of directors of Nortura should really show the reasons for this, because it is quite demanding both for animal welfare and for operational reasons that there is so far between the slaughterhouses. I have been made aware of what is happening in the nation today – that there are a lot of people who are now preparing for the slaughterhouse industry especially at Otta, to ensure a slaughterhouse offer in Gudbrandsdalen. As far as the food industry in general is concerned, I would say a lot has been done for the processing industry, whether it is the processing of different food products, or it is about making things right. One of those things is, for example, the taxes on wealth on working capital, which are important to ensure that those who reinvest in the enterprise have the opportunity to do so and do not take it into their own pocket.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e66	I think the wealth tax in this context is very immaterial, and it's not about the cooperative model either. But it's about agricultural policy, it's about how to facilitate market regulators to carry out their tasks in a good way, in a predictable way and in a safe way. It's about how we look at import protection and relate to it. It's about how to distribute the values in a food value chain, from the producer to the consumer. That is what this is all about, and that is what is the failing basis and challenges of the framework conditions. When the Minister of Agriculture says that she is so concerned about ensuring agriculture throughout the country, she must also be concerned about ensuring a decentralised slaughterhouse structure, as an example. Then the Council of State must know what she intends to do with it, precisely to ensure that an agricultural policy is maintained throughout the country, because on the day one takes away the slaughterhouses, one also takes away the possibility of producing locally. One cannot drive animals from the north to the south — it probably understands the council itself. [[President clubs]] So what will the Council of State do to ensure that we have a decentralised slaughterhouse structure and an agriculture throughout the country? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e73	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e78	I think it's very special that the Workers' Party will go in and control the cooperative model, which is Nortura. I have faith that the farmers themselves take a grip on their own processing industry. But as the Government and the Council of State, I have the responsibility of the government to facilitate the framework conditions around the industry, and it is not that taxes and policies, for example. has an impact on the processing industry. If you talk to the processing industry, whether it's in Rogaland or elsewhere in the country, this is also important for us, while at the same time facilitating production across the country. And if you see what we've done on investments to make sure that we have small and medium-sized uses right in the districts, that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e83	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e88	Again: This is not about the cooperative model, nor have I challenged the cooperative model in my questions. I have talked about the framework conditions for the food industry, for local presence, not least related to the slaughterhouse structure, where this with market regulation, import protection, the value chain and the distribution of the values in the food chain from producer to consumer is absolutely essential. And then I ask, what does the Council intend to do about it, just to make sure that we have a decentralised reception structure, so that those who operate and produce, for example. North meat, can you deliver to a slaughterhouse in the north? What will the Council of State do? This is not about the cooperative model, but it is primarily about agricultural policy and the opportunities for a very important industry in order to maintain food production throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e93	If the representative has read the Granavolden platform, he sees that it is quite clear about import protection, about market regulation, but also about the relationship with the fact that we have organisations in Norway that are important for the operation of Norwegian agriculture – organisations where farmers have gathered, and we are actually going to have a dialogue with them. I think that the way to drive Norwegian agriculture has proved to be the best. Then, at the same time, we should facilitate import protection – it is important for us – and have a market regulation that ensures that we do not get overproduction. There are important measures to ensure agriculture throughout the country, while using farming to ensure that farmers have an opportunity to produce and deliver anywhere in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e98	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e104	The food industry, i.e. the production of food and drink for us living in this country, is the largest industry in mainland Norway in the number of jobs. One in five jobs in that industry, which makes sure we have what we need to eat and drink every day. That's why these kinds of things create enormous commitment, and it's natural at a time when jobs are centralised and laid down, even in public places. In Sel municipality, where Nortura Otta is located, it is only slightly above 60 pst. of people of pre-employment age who have a job. Therefore, this type of industrial plant is critical for the whole community. My question then goes to the heart of the policy, because that is what we are going to do. Does the Minister of Agriculture see any of the grips that former Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug, who has created imbalances in the market, contribute to the centralisation of jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e113	To what is happening in agriculture: I am busy having small and medium-sized units just to secure agriculture in Otta, Sel or where it might be in our country. Then it's absolutely right that the processing industry is the largest mainland industry we have, and then it's about ensuring that you have industry. This means that, as a nation, we need to facilitate the operation of facilities throughout the country. At the same time as we do, the farmers have gathered in businesses like TINE and Nortura, which are not public institutions, but which the farmers run entirely by themselves. I as the Council of State must facilitate the possibility of operating throughout the country. Therefore, I reply that it has been important to me that the cooperative model stands, but that the Nortura regime should really think about whether this is a good way to distribute the slaughterhouse industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e122	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e127	There was absolutely no answer to the question. I wondered about the Minister of Agriculture so that some of what Sylvi Listhaug did and the Progress Party has pushed through has helped to create the imbalances that we are now seeing. A little further north of Otta we find Folldal. That's my neighboring municipality. There, people felt that business opportunities and work were lost directly as a result of Sylvi Listhaug's introduction to centralisation policy. From one day to the next, people had to cut the production of chicken because it was centralized to the large facilities where there is a short way in. Thus, we lose the opportunity to have jobs and value creation in a district municipality. Therefore, I have to ask the question a little differently: Just before Christmas we presented our red-green policy for just jobs throughout the country. Does the Minister of Agriculture see that there is an important input, that we are getting a new spring, given that we are going to have value creation and production spread throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e136	I've said several times that yes, I'm busy with industry all over the country, i.e. the food industry. I'm concerned about an agricultural industry all over the country. That means I'm busy with smaller and medium-sized units, not just the big ones. That means you have to have a receiver that also accepts the smaller units. That should be possible. Then I fully agree, the quota was increased on chicken, on milk it was not increased, but the distribution was changed. In the case of milk, a region has just been preserved to ensure that it also has a processing industry in the regions – I think of milk and milk products. This is very cohesive, I fully agree with that. It is therefore important that we ensure that small and medium-sized units can also be cared for with industry in smaller places.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e143	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e148	Politics works. This is similar to, for example, fishing a question of where to live and who to enjoy harvesting natural resources. Just as many young people are struggling to afford to buy quota and fishing boat, so it has now become exactly the same in relation to the possibility of producing milk. From Sylvi Listhaug’s policy of centralisation, it became twice as expensive in a short time to obtain the opportunity to produce milk as work – twice as expensive. There is money that goes directly from those who want to have a future of milk production as work, and that is placed in banks and other institutions far outside the communities. Will the Minister of Agriculture, who is now from the Christian People's Party, do anything to reverse the developments that Sylvi Listhaug and Erna Solberg have experienced, creating these imbalances and taking money away from communities all over the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e155	Yes, there has been a challenge with milk quotas that was not only from the time when a changed ceiling on the milk quota, it was actually before that. There have been different prices between regions precisely because there has been different pressures on milk and milk production. One can only look at the differences in the price of the West – they are quite large on milk quotas. What has been important to me is ensuring overproduction and that we are able to take out what is to be taken out. Then it is public with just to ensure that farmers do not take the bill entirely alone – even if it was actually with them – to help ensure that we also have small and medium-sized uses, and that everyone has to go down to ensure that there are differences in the size of the farm to ensure different types of milk producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e160	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e165	There is no doubt that the Center Party was not pleased with the closure of Nortura's plant at Ottawa. That was a bad news. Now we are busy working together to create a new activity on the site at Otta. Collaboration is part of the Norwegian agricultural model in several ways. First of all, they help to have an agricultural holding in the whole country. We have a collaboration that is present in the whole country, and not least a collaboration that has a role as a market regulator that allows farmers to be properly paid for their products. My question is then, a little in the light of what has been said so far: what steps does the Council of State take to strengthen cooperation when it concerns the possibility of market regulation, and therefore, indirectly, to secure agriculture and activity throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e174	If you go back in time and see, it's also like the Center Party has been busy with the cooperative models as well as independent models, precisely because they're owned by the farmers themselves. The best way, I think, is actually to make sure that there's a good dialogue between me like the Council of State, the Department, the Government and the cooperative models, so we know where the shoe prints. It is not that I was informed that they were going to lay down on Otta. It was something Nortura did all by himself. I am concerned that we should have a decentralised structure, and the responsibility lies there in common, also with the cooperative models. That's why I also want to challenge Nortura about what they think – they have a reception obligation – about how we're going to do this to ensure animal welfare in the Gudbrand valley, especially, where there are so long distances. And then one has to challenge the board to say what responsibility they take. At the same time, I should like to make it easier for us to have good cooperative models in Norway. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e184	That's it. Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e191	The backdrop here is that there is a regional uprising in many areas of the Norwegian community. On weekends we got a ferry riot, we've had gang uprisings, we've had coastal uprisings before fishing, etc., etc. There is a political decommissioning of the districts that worries many here in the hall and in much of the country. It's the rug. Then there are closures within slaughter and on receipt of the agricultural product. We've seen it on milk, we've seen it on chicken, we've seen it on fruit and green. This is a reaction to the agricultural policy which has led us to adapt to the situation in which we live. The task of the Minister of Agriculture is to ensure increased food production based on Norwegian products and resources. This will draw the canvas under that project. You can do a lot when you add this type of reception. The question is, will the Minister of Agriculture do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e202	Yes, the Minister of Agriculture will do something. In fact, I think the Minister of Agriculture and the farmers themselves are doing a lot, especially in the agricultural sector. If the representative is aiming for green and fruit, we have created a green and fruit package, precisely because we are far from self-sufficient. There are units that fit very well in District Norway, because the government is busy having a production in the districts. We have changed the channelling policy just in order to have grazing and grazing animals in the districts, where it is suitable for grass production, and to have grain production where it is suitable for it. We have ensured that the milk regions are as they have been, that they are retained, even where the representative comes from, Finnmark, if you want to sell something within the region, just to ensure that you have a milk production in Finnmark. This is the policy – district policy – that enables us to have districts where a person wants to live and produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e211	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e216	The unfortunate thing was pointed out in a previous question, the decisions that were made when Sylvi Listhaug was Minister of Agriculture, where a rise in the ceiling — in fact, removing for various productions, especially on milk — has contributed to an enormous concentration and centralisation in agriculture. That's what we're now seeing the effect of, by the fact that the cooperative doesn't see the basis for continuing to slaughter and receive fruit and vegetables. This was part of the Christian People's Party. At the same time, the Christian People's Party was also involved in the unity of the agricultural message, when we had it up, where a stronger mission to the government – the Stortingen strengthened the government's mission and asked the government to increase production based on Norwegian resources – which means that we must have a much more decentralised structure than today. It's positive, what happened in the agricultural sector – and the fact that there was a little fruit and a little green package – but it's just a little bit. The question is: is there really going to be some really powerful action that will allow us to reverse the negative development, the negative centralization, which is happening now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e221	I think it's a very black paint of what's been in the last few years. If one looked at any of the things that stood in the nation yesterday, about the co-operation that now wants to sell the quota of 800,000 liters of milk, there were actually two co-operations that were right next to each other, with only a few walls in between, and that were built over 15 years ago. Then I guess there were others who put in these posts, I guess. That means that you've challenged this system over the years, you've created joint ventures over the years, and farmers have joined together over the years, just to secure income and because someone's had a different idea: that someone runs the farm, and others have income on the outside. So this is an important policy, that we have to build stone on stone, make sure we have feed and feed production, make sure we have pastures, use our own resources and facilitate this in the agricultural negotiations, because I'm busy having an agricultural farm throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e226	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e231	Today the NHO has its annual conference. Value creation, export income is important for the NHO, but it is also important for the Centre Party. The Prime Minister has come back to Oslo and has kept up-to-date on the need for a more entrepreneurial policy. But this government has broken the freedom of nutrition we have traditionally enjoyed in Norway. The government has introduced a national ban on the keeping of fur animals — a legal product to buy and sell in Norway has been forbidden to produce in Norway. I have seen on Instagram that the Council of State has enjoyed Christmas and celebrations with both ribs and stick meat. Many of those in the country who are breeding fur animals have not loved Christmas. They have had a difficult Christmas, because not only do they experience a government that refuses to drive them, but they have a government that refuses to cover the financial loss they suffered. People will sit back with great economic losses with the regulation of compensation that has been presented. There are not many families here. It's at the base of 200 families who have to pay the government their policy. Christian People's Party Leader Robstad tried at the tamp of 2019 with a penchant that human beings have greater value than animals. In this case, I think the animals may be treated better than the government has treated the people. So my question is, does the Council of State think it's right that people who are deprived of the possibility of engaging in business are left with a huge financial loss? How much economic loss my council is reasonable? Is it e.g. OK that individual actors lose 1 million. Does the government have its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e240	I have responded to this matter quite many times in Stortinget. The compensation scheme for the destocking of fur animals is now based on two feet. One is that you have compensation in time. That means you can drive until 2025. In addition, a said book value has been recorded for those who have invested quite recently, cleaning up, those who are going away with retirement, and conversion. Then I got all the hearing answers to the regulation that was out at the hearing in the fall, and then we made a new model where we also scaled down to the value of use and future income, and we made a figure for it, as NIBIO was with us and calculated, which made others who had laid down and didn't have the same book value, also got the opportunity, which made very many come out much better than what was the starting point. It has been the case. So it's like shutting down an industry has been demanding for the Christian People's Party. I want to say it – it has been demanding for the Christian People's Party. But as a government we have thought that it would go and say one should cover everything – we can never guarantee that. We're going to cover what's lost for fur animals, but if people have other types of debt -- on a yard, on a house, on a cabin -- I can't guarantee it. But once we've gone in and made the devices we've done, a lot of people get out very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e247	I thank you for the answer, and I can promise that the Center Party will continue to deal with this matter until the majority realizes the immoral and indecent way one treats these. In November, when this regulation was presented, the Council of State boasted that one had a total frame of over 800 million. kr. What has emerged in retrospect, and as the Council of State doesn't mention a word, was that first the state gives a bad substitute, and then people have to pay taxes on the compensation they get. Then my question is, "A talk this day in November about something over 800 million." kr, but when the government has withdrawn its share of tax, how much is the scheme estimated to be on?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e252	The proposition that exists has even been in her possession by the representative Pollestad for many, many months. If the representative Pollestad had read on page 38, I think it was, he would have seen that it says just this. If he had read the entire proposition, it has been from day one. Because that's how we tax future income. We're taxing our income, and that's what the compensation scheme actually facilitates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e258	: Follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e263	I don't think it would have helped if everyone in the Center Party had read it, because we have voted against the ban on nutrition, and we have voted in favour of decent compensation. My question is whether it triggers tax liability. We have found that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture believe that it does, and that fur farmers can be sure that the government will come and take their taxes when they have received compensation that does not cover the financial loss. There is no doubt about it. But when the council and the majority decided to raise an amount of something over 800 million. When they were going to say what this system was like, one must expect that one has done calculations of how much of this money is going to go back. What is the size of the compensation scheme when the State has withdrawn the tax that the State believes should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e268	I can't stand here and say how large that sum is, because I don't have it in my head. What I can say is that it's also an estimated number -- that's 800 to 850 million. kr. We don't know exactly. It's an estimate. So either one won't know what's the top number in this calculation. And then you get to take the numbers that come with the tax calculation that's right there. But it has been in the proposition from day one, from the state council that presented it before Christmas in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e273	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e278	Norway is a country with no nutrition, and for many of us it is that in a country with no nutrition, it creates very difficult debates and very difficult conditions for those affected. At the end of November, the government chose to make a new offer – a new model – to the fur farmers. One of the reasons for that was that, based on book value, it gave some unreasonable and arbitrary results. But then it's also very strange that the new model only applies to the miners and not to the reindeer farmers, because those who have the lowest book values in the fur industry are the reindeer farmers. The fact that they were then completely translated into the new alternative model is very difficult to understand. Can the Council of State give a simple and illustrative explanation as to why a chosen person improves the model of miners, but not of the rehabs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e285	I have noticed that the representative Arnstad has stated that I should have done this because it was of the greatest importance to Rogaland, where I myself come from. I'm not like that as a state councillor. The starting point for this is that the profitability of the reef industry has been low for several years. From the point of view of value for use that the Ministry has seen in order to make the standard change that was made in November, the fox farmers fall outside, because it was not the same profitability there as in mining.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e290	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e295	I have not claimed that the Council of State has done one thing or another, but I have questioned what is the cause of this grossly unfair discrimination between the two groups of fur farmers. In my opinion, it is very difficult to understand, if it was the case that the new scheme was going to try to help correct some of the unreasonable results of one based on the book value, that one then chooses completely to ignore the group that has the lowest book value, and that with the government's original model might have got back as little as a tenth of the taxed value of the business they run. I believe that the Council of State did little to address it. Now she's done this, but at the same time: How will she deal with the unfairness that is now perceived to be between the two groups of fur-bonds, and which are very unfair on the part of fox-bonds after a new model has been introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e302	First of all, I want to tell the representative that I am very pleased with the question, because I think it is important to say why. The reason why we made a tispe supplement in addition to the book value was to make sure that even those who didn't have book value got a tispe supplement. It's much higher for reefs than for mink, just because one has a tispe supplement to try to keep it safe. I will follow this closely, because the decision of the Storting is also that if the injustices become great, we have to go in and look at it and change it. I've shown a willingness to change all the way, because I'm busy getting the best possible compensation and that it's going to feel as fair as possible. But there are different productions, and then there are also inequalities – that's what it is. That is why I must follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e309	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e314	The Labour Party has always been quite clear that the compensation scheme initially proposed and now proposed is an indecent solution for a demanding case. I had actually expected that the council had taken a greater responsibility to clean it up. There's not one number presented to the Stortinget, not one breeder. Nowhere is it referenced to numbers where one can define what is now the compensation scheme, as good, and which have been used by the Council of State in this answer. She says, "They're coming out very well, many." They don't. Not one number is presented to the Storting where one shows that one comes out well, or that one stands well in the settlement. That it is demanding for the Christian People's Party may be understandable, but it is more demanding for the peasants who are not now compensated for what they are actually losing. And my question is very simple: will the Council of State now contribute to the Storting getting a full overview of the consequences of what the government has implemented and proposed in terms of compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e322	I have submitted a regulation that, in sum, shows what you get by using the book value. The book value I don't have the number on, that's what the individual users have the number on. I've submitted a tispe supplement that one knows the sum of, I've submitted that everyone gets full coverage when cleaning up, and it's added 100 million. kr in means of conversion – as one model. In the second model, which is alternative compensation, $2,150 has been provided for the mink tips, just to secure the second model. And based on that, one of them has the numbers of operations that I've derived from this. This is clearly stated in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e329	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e334	I think it's worth starting from the fact that those who are now banned and feel that they are going to shut down their business, as the Labour Party voted in favour, feel the compensation scheme proposed is unreasonable, because it does not actually replace what is lost. And that's what's interesting. When you look at the tariff bases that have been made so far, they show significant losses for each farmer. That's the difference between a decent settlement and a less decent settlement, as the government suggests. My question is: will the Council of State, if she does not want to change the compensation scheme, actually show the Storting what lies in the real tariff values that are there, and what is the compensation scheme proposed with the different models by the government? Will she actually show these consequences to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e341	I believe that I have presented what it shows. That makes the different farmers figure out what the different things mean to them. I believe that the Storting can also find with the tariffs that are here. It was just supposed to be missing. I have nothing to hide about the numbers that we've derived from this calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e346	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e351	My question goes to the Minister for Development. The climate crisis is hitting the poorest in the world hardest, and it is a great injustice that those who have done the least to trigger the crisis are the ones who pay the highest price. Therefore, our development policy must be geared both towards helping poor countries to move beyond the fossil age in their economic development and towards adaptation, for example. in agriculture, which allows the development of an agriculture capable of feeding people in a situation where the climate changes. At the Madrid climate summit, there was little joy, but one thing many noticed was a positive initiative from 47 of the least developed countries in the world. They wanted to enter into a partnership where they took on commitments to the green development of their countries against rich countries committing themselves to ambitious cuts in their own climate emissions, while at the same time ambitious increases in climate aid and money for both climate action and adaptation in poor countries. Countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and others signed this initiative and with it an obligation to work with the poorest countries. Norway did not sign the name The Least Developed Countries Initiative for Effective Adaption and Resilience, and my question is simply why Norway has not signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e362	I don't think there should be any doubt in this Chamber that climate adaptation and the prevention of natural disasters, that being on track for the poorest and seeing poverty reduction precisely from the point of view of climate change affecting the most vulnerable, the poorest, who have not been involved and contributed to those consequences, has been one of the most important things since the Christian People's Party entered the government and is so clear in the platform. In addition, I was here and presented last year's development policy, where exactly what the representative here is asking about, was one of the things I spent the most time on in my presentation. Over the past year, I've spent a lot of time talking to and listening to the leaders of The Least Developed Countries, as the representative spoke about, whether it's small island states or whether it's the most marginalized, and we're spending a lot of our effort and a lot of our contributions, including the financial, just to meet the needs of those countries. We believe that the major challenges of poverty reduction are precisely in sub-Saharan Africa. The main challenges of climate change are found there. We find 33 of the 47 least developed countries there, and that's where we put our efforts. Then there are many different initiatives. The representative referred to one of them, who came up at the meeting in Madrid. I don't know the discussion there, but there's a lot of initiatives where we take leadership. Among other things, I'm invited to join Ban Ki-moon's management just for climate adaptation. We're going to have the first preparatory meeting this February. I'm going to be very engaged in that discussion right now. So the questioner is right: in our portfolio, climate adaptation has been about 7 pst. We have had enormous efforts to reduce emissions in development policy and internationally, and we are now working to achieve a better balance. There has been a direct order from Stortinget, and I will follow up everything I can in the year ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e375	I thank you for your answer and record that the Minister for Development is not aware of this concrete initiative. Then I would urge the Council of State to address it, because there are many people who have wondered that Norway, with the high profile we are going to have on this, has not joined this initiative. Once our youth has fought for climate action, they have not only fought for cutbacks in Norwegian emissions, but also for increased international efforts and more climate assistance. We must take our responsibility, both for financing green energy and for financing adaptation, so that for example. small farmers who are now hit very hard – it is the third year in a row that we have an increasing number of starving people in the world – are given the opportunity to change, for example. grow plants that are able to withstand climate change. Will the Minister for Development promise us that in the budget that will come later this year, we will have a strong increase in climate aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e384	It is quite clear that overall climate funding has been strengthened. We've put money back into the customization fund. There are several of the areas with a significant gain of more than 500 million. kr, just related to what I was about, with climate adaptation, the prevention of natural disasters and food security, where small-scale farmers are some of the most important ones to achieve in fact the climate goals we have set ourselves and to create the growth that is sustainable in the least developed countries. I would like to point out that I have said that it will be the most important field for me as Minister of Development and for the government related to development assistance. We've had an incredible amount to be proud of. Regardless of who has been in charge of development policy, we have taken international leadership — in education, in health, and not least in the humanitarian field. But what I think, and which I've also received very clear feedback from this room, is that if we don't do what's going to happen to the climate change that affects the poorest people today, people will die. Two-thirds of new refugees are driven away just because of climate change. So let's do that. It's a responsibility I take, and I'll follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e391	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e396	I record that it is not a promise to get severe escalation of climate assistance in the next budget, but I expect the Council of State will work for it. The Councils of State have a worldwide baggage from domestic Norwegian climate policy that reduces our credibility in precisely being able to play a leading role in climate aid and adaptation internationally. While a number of our neighbouring countries are cutting their emissions, Norway has not done the same. The Secretary-General of the Church's Emergency Aid, Dagfinn Højbräten, said in his comment on this year's budget that the 'passive climate policy' that the government is pursuing undermines the government's efforts to reduce poverty, and that it is necessary to increase our credibility internationally to do a much better job with cuts in its own emissions than the debilitated government does. Does the Council of State Ulstein agree with Dagfinn Høybråten?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e408	There is very much of what Dagfinn Højbråten has both done, stood for and thought that I very much agree with. The government is doing a lot for national climate policy. What is my responsibility, and which I have been called in here to answer, is what is being done internationally in development policy. And at least I can guarantee that we'll do everything in our power just to achieve the goals that this hall has set, that are embedded in our policies, in government policy. Then climate work is one of the most important things we can do in the time ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e415	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e420	One of the tools we have is the food safety action plan. As I was in, we have a negative development in which we now have three consecutive years of seeing an increase in the number of starving people in the world. The fight against hunger and the fight against the climate crisis are very closely linked. I recorded that in the autumn budget, there were several of the organisations that are most involved in the fight against this, which were disappointed by the efforts made in the action plan. Because while the number of people who starve is increasing, we don't get a stepping up of the means that go to this, to ensure food security for poor people, who are in line with the challenge. The communication from organisations such as the Caritas and the Development Fund in the context of the budget was that today, with the appropriations available there today, Norway is not doing its part of the job. Is there anything the Council of State will fix in the new year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e429	I want to correct what was said by the representative Lysbakken, because that is not true. In fact, through the action plan related to a sustainable food system, we are increasing funding for both food security and climate-friendly agriculture. There has been a significant increase in recent years. In the 2020 budget, the government is increasing by 100 million. kr to this field. We also see in the last few years that from 2017 the budget has increased by 350 million. kr. So it's going to be almost 1.2 billion in 2020. kr for food safety, fish and agriculture. In addition to that, there is money that is not included, for humanitarian aid for food aid, for support to Norwegian civil society organisations, who also work in the field, and for businesses and others who work with food and agriculture. So I want to correct what was said, because that's not true. More is provided for food security, sustainable agriculture, climate adaptation and a sustainable food system. What the government wants to do here is exactly what was said — getting more attention on small-scale food production. We know most food producers in some of these countries are small-scale farmers and fishermen. That's simply not what was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e438	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e443	My question goes to the Minister of Social Security and Security. Vik municipality with about 2,700 inhabitants was once again isolated from the surrounding New Year's Weekend with closed mountain and set holiday connection, for periods even without power – all due to weather conditions. Helicopter transport is not then possible either. The Vikavjellsvegen or ferry is Vik Municipality's transport year out to the outside world. This happens after a Rome Christmas with intimate settlements in Fresvik and in Arnafjord, which is in the same municipality. Riksveg 13 over the Vikabergellet, which passes through Vik Municipality, is the most connected highway with approx. 55 days of closure every year. The Vangsnes and Hella ferry link is also often closed due to unpairing or other conditions. When wind and power conditions make the ferry impossible to walk, then the building is completely isolated – one will not get to hospitals, one can't get help with accidents, fires or other disasters. It is the Council of State's responsibility that preparedness is acceptable to the people of the whole country. Tunnels under the Vikaberg would have solved exactly this challenge, and the tunnel was inside the previous NTP – and is promised in all election campaigns, especially from the government party. The Swedish National Council Party colleague Bård Hoksrud told the NRK that this road project would be advanced, and it would start as early as 2014, i.e. five years ago. Nevertheless, the government now took the tunnel out of NTP. Racial protection means are also too small, and then we still get connected routes because of race, which also often includes the power lines. At the same time, we know that the weather is getting wetter and more wilder in future shallow climate change. Does the Council of State believe that the emergency situation is acceptable to Vik Municipality, where the municipality is isolated repeatedly per year, or will the Council of State take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e456	The President just wants to remind us that road projects are probably not the constitutional responsibility of this Council of State, but I still leave it to the Council of State to assess how she will answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e461	That is quite right, road projects are the Ministry of Transport and the responsibility of the Minister of Transport, but what I would like to comment on is what falls within my responsibilities, precisely the crisis. This government has strengthened preparedness throughout the country since we joined our offices in 2013. One of the first things we did was order 16 new rescue helicopters. We have now also provided the big hole that the previous government put in the rescue base structure with six bases, where you have a big hole between Banak and Bodø, in Troms, which has not had the same rescue helicopter readiness as the rest of the country. We have now done that after just a few months with our own Minister of Social Security at the rudder. I believe for that reason that we are strengthening preparedness. I would also like to inform the representative that municipal emergency plans are for each municipality to be drawn up on the basis of ROS analyses, which are specific to the municipalities that produce their own analyses. These analyses shall ensure social security and not least predict the nature of the challenges to which municipalities are exposed in relation to natural events.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e470	The emergency situation was exactly what I was focusing on, but I also focused on what the solution could be. Rescue helicopters wouldn't have gone into the world we've had. A new message without concrete action will also not help the inhabitants of Vik municipality. They will still not get to hospitals and will still not be able to get help if fire or other disasters occur when the weather is bad. It's not the first time Vik Municipality is isolated, and it's probably not the last time either, but what's special here is that a tunnel would have helped, and he's drawn out. The spokesperson in Vik also called for the setting up of a national waste disposal facility to build a tunnel through the Vikaberg. But it's probably not the responsibility of the Council of State, either, because I understand correctly, the responsibility of the Council of State is just to follow up other Councils. I thought maybe it was for the Prime Minister. But is this something the Council of State will take responsibility for: having an acceptable emergency situation for the municipality of Vik?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e479	Building a waste disposal facility to get a tunnel on the roads in our country is actually not within my remit either. I think this whole room must agree with me. No, I don't just have a bag responsibility to other government councils. As Minister of Social Security, I have set out instructions on requirements for the ministry's work on social security and preparedness. We monitor compliance with these requirements and the supervisory reports will be public, and we also need to be as prepared as possible to deal with serious incidents. As Minister of Social Security, I am also responsible for contributing to the achievement of the objectives of prevention and preparedness in each sector. But once again, tunnels for the construction of waste landfills are not within my remit, and I do not deviate from my responsibility by answering the representative in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e488	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e494	Then it happened again – we get answers from a social security and preparedness minister about what she is not responsible for. We have got a lot of examples of this now – that the Minister of Social Security and Security is basically not responsible for so much in that area, so I have a very simple question: Earlier – when the Financial Newspaper pointed out that the Council of State is not responsible for so much – the Council of State has said that its responsibility is to see – look at the total preparedness as a whole. Does the Council of State believe that the responsibility of the Minister of Social Security and Security in Norway is only to look at the total preparedness, or does the Council of State think that it is to act, implement policies, be a driving force and do something about the preparedness challenges that are raised here in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e499	Thank you very much for a very good question. Here I can inform you. This Minister of Emergency Response has a responsibility, which is why I have just taken responsibility with, for example. to establish the seventh rescue base in Troms, where the government has received criticism that we are not following up the preparedness. The representative represents a party that has criticised the government for the lack of preparedness, and the representative represents the same party that did nothing to the mishap that was associated with rescue helicopters in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e504	: Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e509	I understand that the Council of State wants this to be about something else, but if one listens to the question from Ingrid Heggø about the situation in Vik and the specific examples she would have answered, we get the answer again that it is the municipalities that have responsibility, or then it is the other councils that have responsibility. Does this Council of State mean that the Minister of Social Security and Preparedness of the Government has an important role to play in emergency policy in Norway, or is this Council of State, as Ingrid Heggø pointed out, a Council of State to take care of the other Councils of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e514	I understand that the representative once again tries the same round, from my first question time on exactly the same thing. My sectoral responsibilities include, inter alia: responsibility for rescue and preparedness, fire and electrical safety, product safety, emergency networks, the acquisition of rescue helicopters – we have ordered 16 of the world's best rescue helicopters, I believe it is a great responsibility – crisis management and civil defence management. I am also responsible for the employment of Svalbard and for the subjects relating to the polar regions. Furthermore, I am responsible for the establishment management of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, the main rescue services, the Civil Clearing Authority and the National Safety Authority. Against this background, we have also received a national cybersecurity centre — the first in the country — where we have established an NC3 with the police on cooperation for preparedness and security across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e519	Ole André Myhrvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e524	It is a little unclear which responsibility lies where, but the Council of State said that she was responsible for following up prevention and planning, and that it kept goals in government. Climate change leads to race, as we have now seen. It's done the same thing before. The NVE has said that they have a priority list of 2.5 billion. kr for racial prevention measures. The Overwater Committee has proposed a number of measures to prevent racial and gliding. Municipalities have been given financial stranglehold to implement measures to prevent race and pace. Road services are now experiencing difficulties in following up their list of climate-adapting measures. Why does the Council of State not take responsibility for following up and coordinating this work across governments, so that we can in the future follow up on the position of trade unions in having climate prevention measures, which we absolutely need?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e529	I definitely do. I'm following up the individual state councils in these areas. The Boards of Trade Unions responsible for monitoring the effects of climate and nature events do so within their budgets. It is always a budgetary question of what types of measures you can take, or the amount of them. As Minister of Social Security, I follow up on the individual state councils and see the whole thing about it. Of course, me and the other specialist councils always want more money. We don't know where the next event is. We don't know where the next step is, or where the next flood is. It has been quite demanding and challenging. We had to have an exhaustive list if we were to manage – if it had been a wish – to step-by-step prevention and racial protection in every slope in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e534	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e539	My question goes to the Minister of Social Security. Before Christmas we debated the question of choosing a rescue helicopter base, following a proposal from the Center Party that was initially a proposal for a professional assessment of where it was most appropriate to lay the base. Before the proposal was discussed, the government of Tromsø. The majority of county councils, municipalities and regional councils have pointed to Bardufoss. Until that's the answer from the Council of State that there are statements she doesn't care about anything. Once again, we see that the government is overrun by local democracy in North Norway. The Council of State also said that the Central Party lifted Bardufoss as a purely employment measure. Neither I nor the Center Party have ever used jobs as an argument. I think these are good arguments that the base should be on Bardufoss. In this case, the complaint has not been submitted to any professional judgement as to where it is most appropriate to lay this base. So my question is, why hasn't the government made any professional assessments and an investigation into where new rescue helicopters in Troms are going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e550	I have to go to court with the representative of the Central Party, who refers to me not caring about the judgements or decisions taken in the District of Troms, or the politicians in the Municipality of Goals. I certainly have. I've listened to everyone, but I just didn't agree. I've been listening to rescue counsel from the 330s Quadron and the Main Rescue Center, coordinating all events. I have also obtained information about where it is the highest activity. There's the highest activity in Troms. Tromsø is closest to the coast, and we know that the highest activity on the sea is north of and northeast of Tromsø. We also know that Tromsø is closer to the sea, and you come to rescue faster. I also know that we have sent out a RIF, “Request for Information”, from the various alternative commercial, private rescue helicopters, and everyone has pointed to Tromsø. That's why I landed on Tromsø. When I joined as Minister of Social Security, one of the first things I got hold of was to get an overview of the helicopter capacity in our country, not least in the north. I also thought that Bardufoss was the best option, but I have landed on Tromsø one and alone because of rescue counsel and because it saves most lives, nothing else. I think it's sad to use a case as important as a seventh rescue base, which we've been working on and wanting for a terrible number of years, for a political game about the rescue capacity in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e562	This is a major investment to be made, and I will again ask the Council of State: What professional assessments have been made in this matter? The Storting has dealt with a matter without any professional judgement. Yes, perhaps individuals at the Main Rescue Center or at UNN, the University Hospital North Norway, have spoken, but there is no written evidence of what is the best base option. If you are concerned about the coast, why have not the Councils then assessed, for example: And Island as base, which is really the best option, if it's the coast you're occupied with? This thing that points out my concern in this case is that no written professional judgements have been made, and can the Council of State present it to the Stortinget? And then I want to ask the Council of State, what is the cost of this investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e571	We have professionally assessed the location of the future rescue helicopter base in line with the requirements of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. I have repeatedly answered here, on questions from the representative Borch, that it is the rescue professional advice we have used. We've also used numbers from the Main Rescue Center about where the activity is highest. Andøya is an interesting question. Again: Why would it be put there when we need tangible capacities in a rescue operation? We're totally dependent on coming to the hospital with patients. Most patients who are exposed to this type of event need hospital assistance, and the type of hospital is located in Tromsø, and not in Andy Island. We also need to be able to access tangible resources for mountain rescue, and so we have that kind of capacity in Tromsø, and not in Andeya. Again: this is not an employment measure; this is a measure for the rescue capacity in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e580	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e585	Ambulance helicopters have already been established in Tromsø and on Evenes. A rescue helicopter at Bardufoss will complement this standby. The number from the Main Rescue Center shows that over 60 pst. of the rescue helicopters missions in Bodø and Banak are ambulance missions, not rescue missions. There is no reason to assume that the rescue helicopter in Troms will have significantly fewer ambulance missions. However, if a rescue helicopter is located in Tromsø, there will be two helicopters carrying out ambulance missions, but there is still no one at Bardufoss. Can the Council of State make any professionally documented recommendations that support the argument of closeness to the hospital in Tromsø, and what recommendation has the University Hospital North Norway made?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e592	So once again, the highest activity is in Troms. When there's a high activity, there's also a higher probability that there are events. It is absolutely right that rescue helicopters carry out ambulance missions. We have also looked at the rescue operations in the county as a background to the decision. So from mid-2015 to mid-2018, the Tromsø base had approx. 220 SAR mission, Search and Rescue mission. 50 percent of these were in the Tromsø area, 25 pst. was in the northern part of Troms, that is, the Lyngen area, which I know well – I have lived there and climbed a lot in Lyngen – and 13 pst. in the inner part of Troms. The rest were elsewhere, as in West Finland, Finland and Sweden. Since that's where the highest activity is, it's also where we have to have the capacity for rescue operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e599	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e604	Once again we are going to discuss this, and once again we are going to discuss this without having to answer the questions that we are asking this minister. We had the same experience before Christmas. I would say that this matter is actually too important not to give political answers, because it deserves the Stortinget and it also deserves the people of North Norway. It's not like there's been a preparedness revolution since you got a Minister of Emergency — not at all. I guess you haven't noticed any big differences in that, but from the answers given, you should almost think it had happened. The Troms people have been working for the rescue helicopter base for a long, long time. I myself have been elected to Troms since 2007 and have also worked on this base for many years. Now we get a base, but there's a lot of uncertainties around that it's going to be in Tromsø. It's going to be fine, too, but the problem is that the professional investigation is not available. So my question is – I try again, as the others before me have done: Can the Storting see the professional investigation done?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e613	That the representative from the Workers' Party says that she has been working to get a seventh rescue base since 2007, is remarkable, because the base structure was laid in her party's reign. Then there were six bases that, with the Workers' Party at the rudder, were laid in Norway – none in Troms. I've taken that challenge seriously. I've been fixing it in a few months. Again: I have been to Stortinget on several occasions and told what background exists for the election of Tromsø and not Bardufoss. I have been informed that I have also seen Bardufoss. I thought Bardufoss was the most natural choice. The highest activity is in Troms. We have a hospital in Tromsø. We rely on hospitals to get those in need quickly to relief. And a hospital isn't a hospital; there's a difference between what kind of content it is in the hospital, what kind of competence it is there, and what kind of help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e620	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e625	I know Tromsø very well, I live there. So it's going to be fine. I also know the hospital very well. But that's how you need a hospital because you're going from where the accident has been to a hospital, and it's independent of where the rescue helicopter is. I'm trying again, and I'm going to make it very simple: can the Stortinge get to see the professional investigation? I'm not asking how many times the minister has told us these figures; I'm asking if the Stortinge can get the professional investigation that you've used when you've made this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e632	The seventh rescue base was briefed on in our budget proposal, which has been submitted to the Stortinget, and which has been decided here in this Chamber. After most events, you will usually end up in a hospital, to which the representative correctly refers. However, the challenge is – as the representative does not seem to take it inward – that a rescue helicopter must return quickly to the base to re-establish itself for the next mission. If the rescue base is to be located on Andøya, it will take some time from Tromsø to Andøya. It also takes time from Tromsø to Bardufoss if you want the base to be there. That time is also to deduct for the next rescue helicopter activity, and it saves lives. Time applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e638	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e652	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will show in that context the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative Arne Nävra. Question 5, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, will be taken up by the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e666	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative Arne Nävra.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e671	‘Last year, the Government held a maritime wind summit to discuss, inter alia, ‘the key considerations to be taken into account in the organisation of sea wind in Norway’. On 26 August, the Council of State, on the other hand, stated that windmills at sea ‘will contribute to the siphoning of our oats and we have very many other interests along the coast that we have to care for, namely both the petroleum industry and shipping’. Does this mean that the Council of State will not facilitate sea winds in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e678	Marine wind has become a major industry in Europe, and especially in the North Sea, large offshore wind turbines are being built. The costs have fallen rapidly, and we cannot ignore the fact that in the foreseeable future wind power at sea can be profitable, even at Norwegian power prices. At the same time, our starting point is different from that of our neighbouring countries around the North Sea. We already have a renewable and zero-emission power supply, which facilitates a surplus of power. Sea wind is primarily a business opportunity for Norway, and we are already well ahead. Equinor is a major project developer internationally and world leader in liquid wind power. The company also developed the world's largest floating wind power plant in the area of Tampen on a Norwegian base, among others. based on an aid of 2,3 billion. kr from Enova and over half a billion kroner from the NOx Fund. Norwegian suppliers are winning large contracts, and we are exporting for greater values in offshore wind power than in other renewable technologies. That's good, and the government is supporting Norwegian companies' international involvement through both Norwegian Energy Partners and the Minister of Industry. In addition, sea wind is a priority research area. The government's policy is to facilitate the development of wind power at sea by making land available and laying down rules for the use of power and land use at sea. My department concluded in the late autumn a consultation of a proposal to open sea areas to wind power and a proposal for a regulation of the Law on the Law on Marine Energy. Now we're going through the video. Many were opposed to the provision of wind power at sea in the hearing. Fisheries and seabirds are two important themes. It is therefore not conflict-free to establish wind power at sea either, but we must balance different considerations even when it comes to sea winds. Different interests must be able to live side by side. Building on the tradition we have of using nature in a sustainable way, we're going to find this balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e687	I thank you for your answer. However, there is reason to ask when the Council of State has such conflicting opinions, such as: in the press, on this matter. Neither is SV alone. Managing Director of the Shipowners' Association, Harald Solberg, went out just before Christmas and said: ‘Norway should have very clear ambitions to develop us as an energy nation. Oil and gas are not renewable resources, therefore Norway, as an energy nation, should also develop several legs to stand on. For me, it is a mystery that the authorities do not take this more seriously." So the marine industry is saying that this should be a new investment, and that the government has not done enough today. I would like to add that for SV, liquid sea winds are what we are particularly pointing to, as there is so little distance between the technologies of oil and gas and to this. How will the State Council work on this in the future to ensure that liquid sea winds can become a very important growth industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e699	Now there's been a consultation proposal to open up two areas, and there's also a chance of recording in a third area. It's obviously important. In addition, Enova has granted 2.3 billion. kr to Equinor, to the wind farm in the Tampen area. Clearly, it is important to develop this industry. Then I would say that I strongly disagree with the description that the government has not done anything to get more legs to stand on. On the contrary, it has been the main policy of industrial policy — to facilitate a tax system that makes it attractive to invest in Norway, to ensure that we do not tax Norwegian business owners harder than those from abroad. There we have at least reduced this somewhat. We have also provided more money for investment in research and development. And there are actually thousands of new jobs created in Norway in recent years, precisely because business is doing its job. So we're going to keep doing that, and then the oil and gas industries are also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e706	I thank you again for the answer. But if we're going to start with a tax debate, I think we need to have a significant and long debate – we can call it a stubble conversation, again, inside the guise with the Council of State. I'd like to do that. It'll be a long time. Onshore wind power is enormously controversial, not least because of overrun of local views and major damage to nature. I took note that in the debate on which the Council of State attended, today early, in the Political Quarter – it was from the NHO Conference – she announced a new and thorough review of the concession procedures. Will a new legislation take account not only of local views, but also require more thorough professional, scientific, evaluations, and that these should be given much greater emphasis? And what about the 18-20 projects where the concession has been granted, but where it has not yet begun to expand – will she contribute to new assessments of these too?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e713	Once concessions are given, it's hard to start rocking by the framework conditions that you've had in the past. But I am very concerned that we are going to take care of Norwegian nature, that we are going to have driving rules for the development of wind power on land, because we see that the voltage is very high in this area, and that there are many things to address. One of the questions is exactly what the representative points to when it comes to looking at natural values, and how we're going to look at each other in different ways. So I can promise that it's one of the questions we'll be looking at in the context of the review of this. It has been a strong desire of politicians to expand for many years. Many of the concessions that are now being implemented have been granted many years ago. That's one of the questions we have to look at, and we have to set some time limits on how long you can have a project lying before it realizes. So we'll get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e720	We're in the situation that the next question is not in the room, and the council that's going to answer the next question after that again, is not in the room, so I think we have to take a short break before we can continue. I'm sure it won't be that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e728	‘According to the new energy market package adopted by the EU in 2019, Statnett has to draw up every two years revised ten-year network development plans to be in line with EU network plans and regional network plans. In the event of a conflict, the Energy Regulatory Authority, RME, may request a change of plans. The NorthConnect cable is on the EU list of priority projects. Does the Council believe that new foreign tables will be a sovereign decision for Norwegian authorities if the new energy market package is accepted by Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e735	The Ministry of Oil and Energy is now reviewing the clean energy package of the EU, which was recently adopted by EU countries. We will have to clarify what is relevant for inclusion in the EEA Agreement, effects on the Norwegian energy sector and any need for adaptations. Just as when the third energy market package of the EU was dealt with, I want to ensure that constitutional and Norwegian interests are fully respected. I will also come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. It would be a sovereign decision for the Norwegian authorities to decide whether new foreign connections should be granted a concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e744	I thank you for the answer, but I have to say that I had expected a little more detail about the rather clear provisions contained in not least the revised electricity market directive, where one, for example. Article 59(1)(k) states that the regulatory authority can monitor the investment plans of transmission system operators and assess in its annual report the compatibility of these plans with the EU network development plan. This assessment may include recommendations for changes to those plans. It is exactly the same as referred to in Article 51, where Statnett is given responsibility for developing network development plans and revising them every two years, and where the regulatory authority is given responsibility for following up this and checking whether it is in line with EU plans and where it is clear from the legislation that a person can request a change in these plans. What about Norwegian sovereignty over the development of foreign relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e751	I believe that the most important thing is just to establish that it would be a sovereign decision for the Norwegian authorities to grant concession to new foreign connections. I think that must be good news. And of course, we're going to be involved in determining, and not just "participating", but we're going to decide whether to build new cables. Now there's a case that's being treated in the department, that very many people are concerned about, and it's about NorthConnect. It is now at the hearing and will be decided upon after the hearing has taken place. And then it is Norwegian politicians who have to decide on it, not the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e758	If it is true that one believes that there are Norwegian politicians who are fully required to take these decisions, it is a little strange that one from Norway has not ensured that the NorthConnect cable has been removed from the EU list of priority projects. In the context of the treatment of the third energy market package in Iceland, where Iceland made a declaration with the EU, one of the conditions for Icelanders to join was that their foreign table, Icelink, should be removed from the EU list of priority projects. It has happened in the new list that has arrived. On the other hand, the feedback from the Ministry of Oil and Energy has been from Norway, when one has been consulted on the new EU list, that one has no comments or comments or proposals for changes to the EU list. Why did one not ensure the removal of NorthConnect from the EU list of priority projects, when the fourth energy market package states that Norwegian policy should be in line with EU priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e765	It is that the EU draws up every two years a list of energy infrastructure projects of common European interest. Regulations not incorporated into the EEA Agreement have rules for drawing up the list and also impose certain requirements for the concession treatment of projects of common interest. However, the Regulation does not require a concession to be granted to projects on the list, and that is the most important thing, namely that Norwegian politicians are to decide on the NorthConnect case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e773	‘26. December were all ambulance aeroplanes in Finnmark out of service due to disease. When assessing the bid from Babcock, the HF Air ambulance service referred to it as follows: ‘The winning offer is ranked as No. Four on quality. This is mainly due to the fact that the offered standby is lowest with fewer pilots and fewer spare aircraft than competing offers. The price advantage more than outweighs the decrease in quality.’» Does the Council of State currently agree with this assessment that the price advantage has offset the decrease in quality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e780	As I said earlier, I am not satisfied that Babcock has not delivered under the contract. My responsibility in such a situation is to secure patients. That is why we have retained additional measures through Christmas, and we also need to continue additional preparedness during the winter, while, of course, we expect Babcock to deliver on the agreement. Babcock Scandinavian AirAmbulance is part of a large international group providing air ambulance services worldwide. Even before the contract was signed with Babcock, the HF Air ambulance service was the largest supplier of air ambulance services in the Nordic region. We have benefited from this when there are now challenges to preparedness, because they have been able to collect aviation resources from their operations in Sweden. Babcock has also previously provided services to the Air ambulance service through two winters with enhanced preparedness for Svalbard. It was therefore little that was to be told in advance that the company was not going to deliver the preparedness that they had undertaken to deliver. The acquisition project leading to the contract with Babcock was led by Hospital Purchases. In addition, the project and acquisition were externally quality assured by the law firm Wikborg Rein. In assessing the offers made by the companies involved in the acquisition project, the criteria were weighted by 60 pst and 60 pst respectively. and 40 pst. Air transport AS cut 10 out of 10 on quality, while Babcock cut 9,51. There were a total of 367 requirements on the basis of competition and the offers were ranked after 95 of them. The other 272 requirements were mandatory and requirements to be met during the contract period. The decisive thing was that air transport was significantly higher on price: 47 million. kr annually, or close to 300 mill. kr in the first six-year period of the contract. The event on Christmas 2 was due, among other things, to: a massive outbreak of disease at the two bases in Finnmark. Babcock immediately tried to find replacements for the sick pilots, but it turned out to be challenging. There were many pilots who had to be replaced at the same time. The 2nd Christmas day was also dependent on scheduled flights to the bases, which is less of the Christmas holidays than otherwise this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e795	I have listened to what the Council of State answers, but the Council of State does not answer my question. There's a reason I'm asking the question. For it is alarming that a government council once again defends the supply that has led the country into a crisis of preparedness, but at all events admits that there were some weaknesses in the supply or evaluation of the supply. When the head of the air ambulance service says about the offer that it is poorer on standby, but that ‘the price advantage more than outweighs the decrease in quality’, it is interesting to know today whether the government council agrees with that assessment: that the price advantage outweighs the decrease in quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e802	I did not see the representative’s question as a general question of evaluating the entire tendering process. I have also explained it in the Stortinget at an earlier time. What the representative asked for was the extent to which this tender had an impact on the management of the situation on the 2nd Christmas day, and I replied to that. Both Babcock and the Air Ambulance Service have plans for emergency situations. I have also checked with the HF Air ambulance service whether there would be different results from handling the situation on Christmas 2 if, for example. another operator had won the tender. The assessment is that it wouldn't be, because then a had extra pilots available in Alta and Kirkenes, who lived there, and were healthy. The challenge was that when one got such a massive outbreak of disease in those places, a fresh pilot had to be transported from elsewhere in Norway, and it was demanding in a situation of reduced flight offers, as it is at Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e815	If the competitor had been offered, there would be 15 more pilots in that offer, so there would be a little more to take off, and the council knows that. In the last question I would like to ask about what was stated at the company meeting on 3 January. The Health Minister then instructed the Health Region to strengthen the air ambulance service with an additional jet plane in Tromsø and an ambulance helicopter in Kirkenes over the winter, but that the additional costs associated with these additional measures should be allocated among regional health care providers. We know that the Finnish State Hospital will bring down 120 million. SEK to next year, Church Hospital 30 million. kr, e.g. by cutting intensive 2-preparation, as the Minister for Health has now said, will take the lead. Why won't the Council of State bring extra funds in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e826	To the representative's comment: I do not think the representative has got what has been the main point in both my answers, namely that in a situation where there was a massive outbreak of disease in the churches and Alta, in case a large part of these 15 pilots had to live in the churches and Alta in order for it to have an effect. There's little reason to think they did. Thus, the challenge was to get them up to Kirkenes and Alta on scheduled flights on Christmas 2nd, when there are reduced flight deals. I believe that the representative is also aware as a weekly commuter to Bergen that at Christmas there are fewer flights going. So to the representative's question: Yes, I am very concerned that we have now increased preparedness during the winter. Then I have said that it is not a bill Health North should take alone. In the first round we distribute it so that it is essentially Health South-East that takes the most part. So the government is going to come back to this in the revised budget, as we do with other issues. I expect that the representative does not believe that we should have waited for this measure to come to the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e836	‘Fafo has carried out on behalf of the Joint Organisation a major study on violence and threats in the health and social sector, ‘violence, threats and harassment in the health and social sector’, Fafo report 2019:32. The report identifies a serious scale of violence and threats to employees. 45 percent of those who work with children, young people and adults with special needs have experienced violence or threats at work in the last year. What new measures will the Council of State consider to ensure that everyone can be safe at work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e843	Let me start by saying good New Year and thank you for a good question about an important topic. The job should be a safe place, where we can develop professionally and humanly. For some people, however, working everyday is also about the danger of violence, threats and shenanigans. Employees of child protection, health and care professionals, teachers and police and prison staff know that we are particularly vulnerable. Authorities have, have and will continue to pay great attention to this issue. In 2017, we got a new code on violence and threats in the workplace. A self-director for violence and threats is located on the Labour Inspectorate's website. During the period 2016–2019, the Labour Inspectorate has had a number of activities aimed at vulnerable industries, where the main message is that violence and threats can be prevented, and that the employer has the overall responsibility. Through supervision, however, the Labour Inspectorate is aware that in many establishments there is a lack of knowledge about how violence and threats should and can be prevented. In the health and care sector, the Labour Inspectorate has imposed 85 pst. of the supervision. Three out of four inspections have shown that violence and threats are not adequately prevented. In half of the supervision, the employer has not assessed the risk of working alone, and in 45 pst. supervision has not provided the employer with the necessary training and training. The Labour Inspectorate has also conducted its own dialogue seminars and guidance meetings with municipalities and private providers of health and social services. These activities will continue in 2020. It still means extensive guidance and supervision. I believe that we have a good regulatory framework in this area. However, supervisory experience shows clearly that many establishments still have a way of implementing them. However, I believe that the continuing efforts of the Labour Inspectorate in this area will lead to a better knowledge of the requirements that apply to businesses and a greater awareness of what needs to be done to ensure good and safe jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e858	I thank you for your answer and use the opportunity to wish the Council of State a good new year – a new year with new opportunities to do more to ensure that we are all safe at work. Because, as the Council of State addressed in its reply, it is correct that we had new rules in place in 2017, but unfortunately, studies show, as the Council of State also mentioned, that the rules often – too often – are not being followed, and that not everyone is aware of what is in this legislation. The findings show that there are shortcomings in the systematic efforts to reduce the extent of violence and threats. The employees' organisations have inter alia: called for the setting-up of daily subsistence allowances, so that the Labour Inspectorate has an instrument to provide institutions and businesses which are not required to comply with laws and regulations. Is there anything the Council of State will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e865	I feel that there is a great deal of consensus about the need for attention around this, and also powerful measures to combat it. My point and what was important to us when we changed the legislation in 2017, was that the employer should be held responsible for identifying risk factors in the individual workplace. It is important to remember that different industries and different industries face different challenges. This means that individual employers need to identify the specific characteristics of their industry. In some industries, sexual harassment is a challenge; in other industries, violence is the challenge, and action must reflect it. We have been committed to improving the General Toolbox of the Labour Inspectorate in terms of sanctions against employers who do not properly care for their employees. I will be the first to assess new measures where necessary. However, I have also been concerned that the legislation we now have will work in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e874	Thank you for your answer. I think it is important, as the Council of State also points out, that the Labour Inspectorate has enough, good enough and powerful tools in its toolbox to defeat this. We're looking at surveys that the magnitude is alarming. However, crewing and competence are also important factors in the fight against violence at work. Preventing and being out early enough to avoid situations requires that you have enough people at work. In addition, employees find that they are often not safe enough in the situation. In the work against violence at work, it is important that we turn every stone to make sure that as much as possible is safe. I wonder: Will the Council of State take the initiative to set up a better knowledge platform on causes of violence at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e881	I think we really know a lot about violence and threats at work. There are several research reports showing both the challenges of the different industries and their scope. In particular, several Fafo reports have shown the extent and type of harassment. I think that one of the most important things we can do is prevent – that is perhaps the most important measure we can put in. Labour inspectorate plays an important role there. 300 municipalities have now been offered guidance or supervision. Making employers aware that employers and employees work together to identify the risk factors in each job may be the most important thing we can do. HMS work — health, environmental and safety work — is fresh, one should not believe that a guidance seminar itself is enough. This is something you have to work with continuously in the individual workplace. This is perhaps the most important measure we can put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e893	This question, from the representative Emilie Enger Mehl to the Minister for Justice and Immigration, will be raised by the representative Per Martin Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e898	‘The Court Commission proposes the merger of the Nord-Gudbrandsdal District, South-Gudbrandsdal District, North-Easterdal District, South-Easterdal District, Gjøvik District Court and Hedmark District Court. The Court Commission proposes that the main court should be added to Hamar, but, for reasons of availability and travel time, it is proposed to maintain a department at Tynset. Who does the Council of State consider that, where appropriate, it should have the competence to set up and close up such departments as are provided by the Court of Justice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e905	Thank you for the question. I have a great deal of understanding that there is a great deal of interest out there in order to get a clarification on this matter, but it is therefore the case that the Court Commission provided its investigation on structure on 1 October. The Commission's proposal is therefore not an expression of the government's policy, but a technical recommendation. The Government has not taken a decision on the follow-up to the Commission’s proposals, nor will the Government decide on the specific proposal until the investigation has been at a hearing. It is important that all those concerned by the proposals proposed in the investigation are given an opportunity to comment. This could be done, for example, by: be the legal environment around smaller district courts that want to make their views known. For this reason, the consultation here is now an important part of the investigation to be carried out by the Ministry, which will form part of the government’s decision-making base. I can therefore not respond at this point in time to where I imagine that the competence to set up or shut down departments in any new structure should lie. This will be part of the matter that we possibly from the government will promote to Stortinget. I just want to stress that here the government, if there's going to be any major changes, is going to promote a cause for the Storting. Although the formal competence to make changes lies with the government, it is common practice to promote it for the Storting as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e914	It is important that the environments affected are heard. The Court of Justice Commission points to the need for increased productivity, and it therefore partly justifies the Council’s decision to abolish and centralise property rights. The annual statistics of the Court of Justice for 2018 show that the processing time at the Nord-Osterdal and South-Osterdal districts is significantly lower than at e.g. Both the Oslo district, the Bergen district and the South-Trundellag district. In a joint opinion to the Court of Justice, the North-Easterdal and South-Easterdal District Courts have proposed a merger of the two jurisdictions while preserving both courts. Is this proposal, from two district courts which have been run with the greatest efficiency, a proposal the Council of State will look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e921	As also pointed out by the National Audit Office, it is often such that the smaller courts may have a high level of efficiency, but at the same time there is a mismatch between the availability of resources in the smaller courts versus for example. the major courts, which means that you have e.g.: many fewer issues per resource in the smaller ones. That's why there's a kind of a division of resources between the smaller and the larger. This doesn't necessarily mean that the only solution to this is to have to shut down the smaller courts. There may also be other types of solutions we think are relevant here that we are now considering, for example. to do something about the courts, so that you can transfer cases or move judges to help out in the major courts. This is one of the things that both the National Audit Office has pointed out is necessary and the Court Commission has also assessed in its proposal, and that it is important for us in the government to be able to go further into.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e928	In addition to pointing to the need for productivity, the Court of Justice also claims that fewer courts are needed to ensure, among other things, that there is no need for them. professionally sound decisions. In an interview with Rett24 just before Christmas, Jens Edvin A. Skoghöj, professor of law at the University of Tromsø and many years of Supreme Court: ‘It is not the case that the quality of the courts increases proportionally by size. In my time as a judge in the Supreme Court, I do not remember that the major district courts were particularly positive. I'd rather say, "Certainly contrary!" Does the Council share the view of the Court of Justice that major courts are necessary to ensure good professional judgement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e938	As a lawyer myself, I have been in both larger and smaller courts, and I have to say that smaller courts can show the highest quality of Zorenprinters. However, I am also familiar with the fact that some of the dishes in Norway have had a hard time getting them, for example. persons of good standing to become a judge. It is, of course, a paradox that in some jurisdictions in Norway today the requirement to become a judge is much lower than in other jurisdictions. It can challenge the quality. Another thing that can also challenge the quality is that you are now going into a situation where the jeez has become more complicated. The Nav case is a good example of that. It's clear that there's going to be benefits to a bigger environment, so you can learn from each other, but once again, it doesn't necessarily mean that you have to put down some courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e945	Case No. So 2 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-01-08.ana.ud303e959	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
