ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e88	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives of Hanne Dyveke Sweets and Solfrid Lerbrück, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e103	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Kari Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Kari Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents of the week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e116	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e134	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e150	Nobel's goal with the Peace Prize was to support and promote peace fighters and their efforts to promote what he called peace congresses, disarmament and the crime of nations. Unfortunately, it is clear today that the Storting does not follow up on the intention sufficiently. For while individuals who have consistently fought for disarmament and peace, as Nobel provided, have been ignored, a number of power politicians, who have faced the opposite of practical politics, have been premiered with the prize. One reason why the Peace Prize has moved so far away from Alfred Nobel’s intention is that the seats of the Nobel Committee have in practice been regarded as a party political exchange, as a thank you for the long and faithful service of the largest parties, and not a place that should be reserved for people who have both relevant expertise and also commitment to peace and disarmament. It has been warned against this from several teams and over a long time. The author Fredrik S. Heffermehl has written detailed books on this, and in 2017 Stortinget received a letter signed with 17 professors in law who recommended a change of current practice. They agreed with Red – it should not be the party-political meat weight that determines who will sit in the Committee in the future, and we believe that the Storting's lack of ability or willingness to listen to these objections is unfortunate. Red believes that the members of the Nobel Committee should and should be elected on the basis of both professional qualifications and personal suitability. Candidates should be evaluated on the basis of their knowledge of, and also of, peacemaking and disarmament, as defined by Alfred Nobel in his will, saying that the Committee should be made up of ‘the most qualified for the purpose of the Peace Prize’. It is not my words or my interpretation when I say that Nobel would support and promote peace fighters who would work for the cremation, reduction or abolition of standing armies and peace congresses of nations. But that's not what we get with the vote committee's attitude today, and that's just regretting. But there's another way, and that's to adopt Red's proposal, which I bring up with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e163	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e182	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e189	Let's reflect on the following: At a time when the country is in crisis, hit by a pandemic that affects us all, at a time when health workers work around the clock to save lives and health, where municipalities all over the country do everything they can to keep the infection under control, at a time when local communities by community can do nothing but see jobs that have always been there, disappear, where more and more people become unemployed and permitted, at a time when there are actually record low numbers of asylum arrivals to Norway because everyone has closed the borders, the case is Erna Solberg and her government believes must be dealt with urgently in the National Assembly, this proposal. At a time when the country is in crisis, Erna Solberg and her government believe that it is this proposal that requires urgent treatment. If this does not show how deeply the desire for power goes to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I don't know what it does. Not even a worldwide pandemic trumps the lust for power of Erna Solberg and her government. To me, it's clearer than ever before: Right, Christian People's Party and Left are doing everything they can to hold power, for power's sake. Why not urgently treat a guarantee for the 200,000 people who are unemployed or on leave in Norway, like Even, who have been on leave from their job at Quality Hotel for ten months, who live with uncertainty about whether he has a job to go to after 1 March, unless the Storting decides to change the permit rules? Why not urgently deal with a guarantee for employees in the Kongsberg industry, who now experience mass redundancies despite having long called for the help of the State to maintain industrial environments in Norway, a state that does not set up? Why not urgently deal with a solution for Thomas and Jan Ole and the many other fires in the outdoor industry that are afraid to lose their life's work, when the government is unable to set up businesses that have to shut down completely due to local infection prevention measures? These are a few of many examples, but for Erna Solberg and her government, these matters are not important enough. It's the desire for power, the desire for power, the desire for power that makes it $1 and 48 cents cheaper beer, and that this proposal is what is to be dealt with urgently in the national assembly, instead of proposals that actually make a difference for people who have had their lives turned down because of the pandemic. Once the government has decided that this is an urgent matter, we present our own proposals. The Labour Party's refugee policy is clear, and our solutions are known. The most important effort we can make for as many refugees as possible, to give many, instead of a few, a worthwhile life and hope for the future, is a committed effort in the neighbourhoods, a solidarity pot. Today's asylum policy is inhuman, unfair and unsustainable. We have to stop the way across the Mediterranean, run by human traffickers. We must give priority to UN quota refugees, families with children who are persecuted, regardless of faith, and we cannot accept more than we can actually integrate. We must succeed in integrating better than today's government has done. Allowances are to start learning about Norwegian democracy, equality, employment and the Norwegian language before coming to Norway. That is why we are promoting a number of proposals for a fair and predictable refugee policy: a legislative change that provides a clearer distinction between Convention status and subsidiary protection by limiting the right to family reunification and extending the use of temporary authorisations for subsidiary protection; a plan for Norway to combat irregular migration, including ensuring that today’s legal basis for referring asylum seekers to safe third countries outside the EU is actively used. [[asyl]] It requires cooperation agreements with third countries. We propose to strengthen the requirement for permanent residence and family start-up documentation, to strengthen the requirement to be able to support themselves through a strengthening of the maintenance requirement, as well as the connection requirement in family start-ups cases, to establish a solidarity spot for refugees over the development budget, to determine the total number of refugees Norway is to integrate over time. The number of asylum arrivals, quota refugees and family reunification with refugees shall be seen in the context and family reunification with quota refugees shall be completed before they arrive in Norway. Quota refugees shall undertake intensive courses in democracy, equality, Norwegian employment and Norwegian training before they arrive in Norway. In doing so, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e208	The representative Masud Gharahkhani has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e213	There was a powerful tiger from the previous speaker. This is a sensible development of the requirement for butide. We've discussed this before in this room, so there's nothing new about this. What is new is that we have a consensus with the Government Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in the Budget Agreements. It appreciates the right very much, because we've meant this for a long time, and finally we can do this. There are also many very positive ringing effects of increasing the demand for butide, so for me it is a pleasure to address this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e218	When we hear the contribution from the Workers' Party, it is quite clear that political action and effective work are far inside. Here they are horrified, it may seem, because the parties of government and the party of progress have come up with a proposal that is sensible and that is being implemented quickly. This is a well-founded proposal that has been discussed earlier in this Chamber. Unfortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party chose to break a signed agreement and voted against a proposal that had been negotiated earlier. It is such that a protection shall be temporary. You have to be protected for a limited period of time when you need it. It is a principle that most people agree on, but unfortunately Norway and a number of other European countries have put in place policies that give rights far beyond the Convention on Refugees. This has led to a situation that has given rise to a low-sustainable asylum and immigration policy. We have to realize that the amount of fraud in these matters is large. Three years to discover, control and deal with what has been discovered later has been on the wrong basis, is too short, and it is good that the Progress Party in this matter is also able to draw the majority in a more sensible direction. For too long, there has been a far too naive approach to these issues. When we're going to tighten up in this area, it's important that we do it the right way. We can, for example: see Denmark, which has taken the lead in these issues and introduced a more stringent policy, also for the number of years of temporary residence before permanent residence. There has been a move towards net emigration of refugees, and there is a situation that should be welcomed. It's good for Norway because the pressure on society is removed, it's good for the refugees to come home, and it's also good for the refugees' homeland to get back resources that can help build the country. I think it's strange that in a lot of such things that we're discussing in this room, it's considered to be a negative thing that refugees are going to get home. It's positive that refugees get home, and it has a number of side effects that are also positive. When we have schemes that make it attractive to risk life to reach asylum in Europe and Norway, there is a situation where everyone loses. We have seen that situation in the Mediterranean for far too many years, and we must realize that our policies in Europe and Norway have helped to lure people into suffering and distress. We have to take this seriously, and we can end it if it is political will, but then we need more action than we have seen so far. It is also strange when the Labour Party believes it is so problematic to deal quickly with such proposals, proposals that have already been examined, and they are promoting a number of proposals themselves in this matter, so they clearly believe that it is important enough. Several of those proposals are good. The Progress Party will support the proposals Nos.1 to 4, because it is good proposals that deserve a majority. But they have also made proposals that are not realistic and that are not good either. We are going to vote against the remaining proposals because they are not good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e231	There is reason for some of the criticisms that the Workers' Party made here instead, of the handling of the Corona situation, because there are many very acute things that this government is not dealing with at all. But I'm a little surprised by the Workers' Party, when in the same case they promote a whole series of proposals that look amazing to what the Progress Party and the Government have agreed on, and which are very poor integration policies and very bad family policies. I've heard more from the government parties talking about having a good family policy. Yes, it must be about allowing people to be together when they are family, not having to wait for years to be allowed to be family, or being allowed to be safe for their stay. I understand that there are some people who believe that there may not be any better integration, but that it does not hurt if people have to live in insecurity anymore. The SV believe that the best way to achieve good integration in Norway is to ensure that people are safe for their stay faster than today, that there are not so high demands, for example. to income, which means that you are not allowed to be with your family, all these things make it more difficult to integrate. We in SV believe that when people come here, we should welcome you here, but be safe – with us it is like this – and be very clear on the rules that apply in this country, on equality, on democracy, on all things that the government and the Progress Party and the Labour Party like to talk about. But then people must be allowed to be safe and be able to rot. If you're going to live with this insecurity year after year – yes, I've met some women who have lived with violence in their marriages, but have not dared to do anything about it until they've been given permanent residence. It's quite serious, and you can say that you can go to the police and get help. All of us who have been close to the crisis center movement know that this is not the life of people. The life for people is that one must know that one is safe before one can say from, and that is not least the case with these women. What's the situation for them now? Two more years? It's not worth it. This is just a symbolism policy to ‘please’ the Progress Party, and I am very surprised that the Left and Christian People's Party can participate in this. That the Right means it, yes, they've done that for a long time. That is reason, and SV agrees that we need to make clear demands for those who should be here, and they should have the basis for staying, but there is no reason why they should wait any longer. This is also one of the reasons why SV has promoted a proposal for a representative to end the Norwegian refugee policy, where the government and the majority practice it contrary to what the UN says is right. Here, then, Norway is on a slide that causes us to damage integration and damage the work of refugees in the world, and that is difficult. When the Progress Party speaks, it sounds as if there is no war and persecution or mismanagement or political torture or anything in the world. The only reason for this is that it is possible to flee and seek asylum. It's so outrageous to hear. It's not because it's possible to get asylum people flee. It's because they're persecuted, afraid of their lives, afraid of everything. And when they have lost everything and come here, we must treat them worse and worse. We believe that good integration policy is about allowing people to rot, that they are allowed to become Norwegian and not treated as if they can never become Norwegian, and that they are allowed to be with their family. It is the best integration policy, and it will be a plus for Norway, not a loss. The SV will vote against the draft representative, and we will vote against all the proposals that the Labour Party has made, except for No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e250	The requirement for permanent residence is proposed today, following a budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, raised from three to five years. This has consequences for refugees, for persons with a residence permit on a humanitarian basis and for persons who have been reunited with them. With this change, a person staying on this basis will have to be in Norway for five years before the residence permit becomes permanent, compared to three years today. It is important for me in this matter to clarify that this is not a change in the need for protection. If you need protection, you have a right to it, even if the requirement for living is raised from three to five years. For the Christian People's Party, the child's best has always been heavily weighted on immigration issues. We've fought for this and we've had more breakthroughs for it. Among other things, in 2014 the Stortinget intervened in the treatment of long-term children and in 2017 in the cases of lone minor asylum seekers. The practice of administration was at the time more stringent than that desired by the majority of population. Having become aware of the consequences of a lack of emphasis on the best interests of children in these cases, Stortinget considered it necessary to adjust management practices. So the majority of the population thought that the children were to remain in Norway at the time. When we are going to deal with this matter today, I believe it is important that we look at the Storting's intention for these matters. Although the requirement for living increases from three to five years, individual assessments should continue to be made. The best of the child and children with strong ties to the kingdom should continue to be taken into account, and the government has announced that in the spring of 2021 a bill is to be presented to the Children’s Best in Foreign Administration. It is not surprising for me to predict that more people will bring forward the enormous consequences of this amendment, and they are right. The Christian People's Party would never have proposed an increase in the requirement for living. We have too much knowledge of the consequences for the individual to do so. It is absolutely right that these are not changes Christian People's Party wanted. This was the wish of the Progress Party in the negotiations, and it is, as it is known, a great distance between the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party in immigration policy. The Christian People's Party has also previously voted against similar changes because we believe that such a change will be anti-integrative. So now the job to ensure a good integration with a good balance of trust and demands between the parties becomes even more important than before. The state budget is not just about individual matters, fortunately. That's what makes me stand with my back straight and remembering that the Christian People's Party is the party that ensures that the main lines of the international contribution and immigration policy remain firmly established. It has been irrelevant for the Christian People's Party to cut the number of quota refugees. This is about vulnerable people on the run. The Progress Party would have zero quota refugees, but the Christian People's Party has ensured that Norway will receive 3 000 quota refugees for another year in 2021. It's still stuck. The advance party wanted to cut aid sharply. Christian People's Party made sure that 1 pst. of Norway’s GNI continues to provide assistance. This will mean everything to those concerned, and would never have happened without the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has always worked to be clear and active in the important work that Norway is doing, by holding on to a high number of quota refugees and to the aid rate. With this budget, we keep what we promise. During the throne debate here in Stortinget on 5 October, the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party said that we should have looked at the political issues on which we have been elected. We've kept that promise. Now we get a majority for a budget with many good Christian People's Party breakthroughs. I'm glad, and I have to remind myself of that in a matter like this. We provide safe and good governance of the country. The Christian People's Party takes responsibility. We do that together with the rest of the government and the entire Norwegian people. We're in a crisis that we're going to get through. Now we have a government budget that is offensive, safe and well adapted to the crisis that our country is now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e265	Getting a permanent residence permit in Norway basically means a permanent right of residence, without any need for renewal. In this case, it is both reasonable and necessary to require association with Norway before such a permanent authorisation is granted. The Progress Party and the Government Parties have therefore agreed to increase the current residence requirement for permanent residence permits from three to five years for refugees, for non-residents with a residence permit on a humanitarian basis and for non-residents who have had family immigration with them. We believe that three years of residence provide a limited link with Norway. If conditions in the home Member State improve during this period, the basis for a permanent residence permit is not present. Then the initial basis has changed and one does not have the same protection requirement if the need falls away and the refugee can return to his home country and live safely there without danger of persecution or other forms of abuse. It is important for me to stress that in all cases an individual assessment is to be made of and whether there are other considerations that suggest that the person or family should become, for example: the best interests of the child and the relationship between the child and Norway. It is also important to ensure that those who have migrated to Norway and who experience domestic violence are able to feel safe and not become violent only in order to maintain the residence permit. It is therefore important to stress that those who have received a residence permit as a spouse or cohabitant are entitled, upon application, to continue to stay after a break in life if they have experienced abuse in society. There is no requirement for evidence of the abuse, and the general rule is that his explanation should be taken into account. In 2018, the so-called abuse provision was extended to include abuse by others other than the partner, i.e. other persons in the household or in the in-law family. It ensures protection for the victims of violence in the large family, and it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e281	Since we have the Minister of Immigration, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence here in the Chamber, I would like to ask the Norwegian Minister of Emergency to explain to the National Assembly: At a time when municipalities all over the country are working around the clock to save lives and health and to keep the infection under control, where local communities experience bankruptcy, mass redundancies, people who are unemployed and on leave, and where government action packages are not accurate, does the Minister of Emergency from the Right really believe that the matter that is urgent for the nation and the national assembly is exactly this proposal we are going to discuss today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e287	I believe that the most crucial thing, both in times of crisis and in normal times, is for the country to have a good budget. It sounds a little boring, but it's actually the most important tool we have in the nation to do priorities, just to be able to deal with the critical situation we're in. The fact that the Storting is negotiating a budget is important, and that's the most important tool we can offer our citizens at a time like this, because it's about prioritising.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e292	I'm just trying to understand what kind of management the Minister of Emergency Response and the Right in the government is adding up under the pandemic, which has hit all of Norway. For me and the Labour Party, it is not difficult to deal with this matter, we have the proposals clear, but when a government believes that something has to be dealt with urgently, it must be about the interests of the nation, that this matter is much more important than any other matter. That's why I ask the question again: why is this case much more important than all other issues for the Right and the other government parties? Is that a yearning for power?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e297	I have heard of this desire for power sometimes today from the representative, but I think I have to correct it. It's not the government that hastens the matter, it's the Storting that does, and if there's something the government doesn't do, it's meddling in how the Storting chooses to deal with its cases. Then there is no reason not to deal with this matter when you agree on the conclusion. It is a legal investigation that has been at the hearing, which has been discussed before, so this has been investigated and heard, and when this consensus is clear and is to be dealt with in the context of the budget, there is no reason not to deal with it. But it's up to the Storting to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e302	When one hears the previous reply, it may seem that the representative has not found out that the Storting has dealt with a number of matters at a rapid pace — in the context of the ongoing crisis. It has, of course, been very important and correct, but it has not been brought with it by the representative of the Workers' Party. But over to this case, which is a very good case. I'm very happy that it's coming into place now, after many years of fighting to get a sensible policy. This should have been introduced several years ago to remedy the situation when so many arrived in 2015, among other things, but it is also important to have such a mechanism for the future to remedy the fact that there are not too many coming to Norway. I have a question for the Council of State – whether she can say anything about how many will be affected by this new scheme from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e309	Only in the case of emergency treatment: I would like to confirm that I have delivered a record of urgent cases to Stortinget after 12 March, and that has been absolutely necessary, of course. It's hard for me to figure out how many of these things relate to. We have numbers on how many applicants have been here for less than three years; it was this year about 4,310. So it was 14,336 who applied for it over three years, but how much over three years we don't know, because we don't register it. But that's of course a significant number of people. Then the number is much lower this year than it is in normal years. That's because of the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e316	The Council of State is not the Minister for Integration, but I nevertheless expect that she has read some of the research reports that clearly conclude that raising the requirement for living is bad for integration. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the entire justice sector, including: the women who live with violence. This can apply not only to women who have been reunited with families, but also to some of those who have come here as refugees or asylum seekers. The Council of State refers to the delimitation of the family circle and who may be subjected to violence. What we know is that you can be subjected to violence by people other than those who live in your own household. Infirmary parents can be part of this. If the Council of State is to be able to promise that someone is safe, how can you limit that personality as much as you've done?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e323	I'm actually very concerned about violence in close relationships. I'm very concerned that we're fighting it no matter who this is about. But I believe that the representative is really wrong when she believes that we have limited this very much. This applies to everyone in a household, and that would include everyone outside of a household – the way in which you would define it, I don't know. We must have rules of law that are manageable and that can be practiced. Then I believe that the household is a very reasonable limitation. It will include those who live together daily, and those who experience physical and mental violence daily or very often.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e328	We've dealt with a lot of issues in the Biggest on negative social control. We're dealing with more people now, too. Could it really be the case that the Minister of Justice does not know that the negative social control, which sometimes includes violence, goes far beyond those who live in the same household? That means that many people can be terrified, even though they are not living in the same household, who are perpetrators of violence. So that restriction is not at all satisfactory if you're going to be concerned that these women should be granted a residence permit on their own basis, and that's what ensures security for breaking out. Doesn't the Minister of Justice see that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e333	That's not what I said. I said these rules must be practical. If you have been given a stay on the basis of e.g. family reunification, you should not be allowed to stay in a marriage or a life or a household if you experience this. It should not be the requirement for living that means that you do not dare to break out. What Andersen is talking about is something quite different. That's how we fight negative social control in general. And then there's a lot of ways to think about it. But imagining that the neighbor or the trimmer – yes, I don't know how the circuit should be delimited, but it might have SV a suggestion about it. I believe that we have made an extension that is very well justified, and then we say that it is the household that sets the framework for this rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e338	It's important to set the limit by actually being threatened with these things, with the rice behind the mirror that you only have a temporary residence permit: if you don't do as we say, we'll throw you out. That's what's the problem, and it looks like the state council hasn't gotten along. It's a very serious threat to many, to be returned after that kind of breach can be very dangerous to those involved. That is why this should be extended. The clearest advice is perhaps not to extend the residence requirement, because it is already very far today. I have an additional question, and it's about the representative, Engen-Helgheim. He said, "How many are affected?" Does the Council of State and the majority wish to hit people with this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e345	Now I really believe – with all due respect – that the representative Andersen is looking for arguments for something you are opposed to, and that is quite right. You might be against it, but starting to look at completely different reasons, I think it's wrong. We're not going to hit anyone, but it's about someone, and it's about people, and it's about people in a difficult situation. But you don't get thrown out. Each case shall be dealt with individually. That is very good, because then relations with the representative Andersen are part of that procedure. If the situation in the home country of a refugee has become good and peaceful, I would think that most people would want to go home again. You have fled because you are threatened or persecuted – because you have had to, not because you have wanted to. So here it's about looking at the state of the home country you're from, and the concrete situation you're in here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e353	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e360	It's always interesting to hear the representative Gharakhani, who is completely untrustworthy of these questions he's talking about, simply because he lacks support in his own party for the policy he's defending. And it's true that even though he sounds like a mitral Jöse from the pulpit, you don't hide the spagat Arbeiderpartiet. I understand that it is difficult when such proposals come up, because what you then reveal is that you are speaking very correctly, but you are voting against the proposals that are right to implement in order to tighten immigration policy further. I am very pleased that the Progress Party can collect another victory in immigration policy. Finally, we get an impact to raise the requirement for living from three to five years. We've been fighting for this for a lot of years. While the Progress Party steered asylum and immigration policy, we had more than 100 restrictions, but we did not get this proposal. That is why I am very pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party – which was opposed in 2016, which was opposed to the Jelaua and the Granavollen – is now in favour of voting through this proposal. Why is that important? Well, first of all, this gives the foreign agencies and the police better time to detect fraud, to reveal the false ID. Unfortunately, this is not the way the representative Karin Andersen is trying to say that all those who come to Norway are real refugees. Some are, they move from war and conflict, but there are also many who do not have protection needs, but who are trying to trick us into staying. Then it is also that you have better time to withdraw your residence permit, so that in that period that might be safe for someone to go home again, they may be involved in rebuilding their country again. And that should be a goal, both for us and for them and for the home country. Everyone wants to make a living. I'm also very happy that this is being hit hard. So it's family reunion with those who have refugee backgrounds, and it's all those who haven't been here for three years on December 1. In other words, if you are in that category, you do not have permanent residence in Norway until after five years at the earliest. Then we also have a short transitional period which lasts until 1 February 2021, for those who have not yet applied but who have been here for three years on 1 December. Anyway, this is a great victory. At least 3000 quota refugees would be in any case. The working party will have 3,500, SV will have 6,000. This is where all the parties run the surrender policy. The Progress Party would like to see it reduced considerably, but we are at least pleased that we are now further tightening up on immigration policy and making it less attractive to come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e373	I was tempted to call this a political circus. I will not, but I can say that it is a rather unorthodox political debate we have here today. So it started with the representative Trellevik, who comes up and has the word, but is not at all interested in going into an argument for what is on the table for treatment, which is a change in law. Then the representative, Engen-Helgheim, comes up and tells us that this is an important political victory, and accuses the Workers' Party of a lack of power, while Listhaug comes later and says that we have worked for many years to get it done, but not got it through. Yes, who was it that couldn't get through this when you were in government? The Left Government Party does not even present itself in the debate, the party that has been so concerned about profiling refugees. I have great respect for the representative Bransdal. She's at least in the debate, but I have to be allowed to say that the argument for what a majority is going to adopt here today is sylt thin. I understand that the representative Bransdal needs to explain all the other good things that are believed to be achieved in government cooperation and in this budget agreement, but there is no argument as to why the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal, in the representative's speeches here today. In recent years, we have seen quite a strange settlement in the chamber when we were going to have these budgetary comparisons with the government of Solberg, with varying constellations. It is enough to mention things such as luggage and air passenger charges, which are both examples of decisions taken on the basis of agreements that have been concluded in a situation where an agreement had to be put in place. None of the two decisions seemed to be a major success. The air passenger charge is e.g. now a direct threat to the possibility of having a sensible collective offer in the air in the districts. Now we have also come to the conclusion that we are no longer dealing only with the state budget issues, but as part of the budget resolution, we are introducing law decisions, law decisions that several of the representatives of the Progress Party have now been up and saying that are very important matters that they have fought for too long, but that they have not got through. Yeah, do you think why they haven't gone through with a majority? I bet you do. I really hope that those who intend to vote in favour of this amendment, who were adopted as part of a budget agreement, have thought carefully about what the consequences are, and whether this is a wise policy or not. Then I hear that the representative Listhaug is concerned about whether Gharahkhani has support in his own party. Well, I can assure you that all the representatives of the Labour Party are behind the proposal that has been put forward here today, and we are going to vote in favour of the proposals that the Labour Party has made. And there are no proposals for legislative texts; there are proposals for policy changes, but they need to be properly investigated before they are introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e388	This debate reminds me a little of the debate we have had over the past week on the proposal to give priority to Christian quota refugees. Then the Progress Party says that we should now give priority to Christian quota refugees, and then the Christian People's Party and the others say no, they should be given priority in line with the others, and that when you give priority, no one comes at the back. That proposal also applied to Jesuits, and I have a question on my desk that I asked Sylvi Listhaug when she was Minister of Justice. Then she refused to stay at the Jesidis and thought they were safe, so they returned Norway – they we returned to Syria. So this doesn't sound very common or reasonable. Research report on research reports shows that long uncertainties about residence permits give rise to poor integration, but it does no longer mean that those who live with such a threat over many years are destroying their health and their ability to root, to become a part of society – because they are never safe. So the council says she thinks that refugees would like to return to their homeland if it gets safe there. Yeah, I think so, too. This proposal has nothing to do with it – we have never refused to return home if they wish. On the contrary, I know many people who have returned home because they have had a residence permit in Norway, and then they are safe – then they dare take the chance, and many of them remain. Of course, if you haven’t been in Norway for many years, you’ll want to go back — if you’re safe. But what the government and the majority do is they say it's safe where it's not safe. Then they won't let people take these responsible, informed choices in their own lives, but they're putting the integration at risk, and it's hard enough as it is, if we're not going to make it worse. So this is a bad proposal for all of us who are concerned with good integration in Norway. We believe that when people are going to establish themselves here, it's a pretty heavy and big job for most people, and we want people to bet 100 pst. on it. But then it can't be that they have to wait many, many years before they can be sure that they can establish a future here and become a part of this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e403	Why are we standing here and debating this matter today with different starting points? Well, because there has been an agreement between four parties in relation to a budget. My rhetorical question is then: has the Labour Party never reached any agreement in relation to a budget, in which they disagree? I tried as best I could explain the Christian People's Party's view of this matter and be honest with it, so there should be no doubt. But we have entered into a budgetary agreement, and a budgetary agreement is still in place – that is how simple it is. Then I hear the Workers' Party talk about everything other than what is really going on. Is it to misrepresent, or is it because the Labour Party in this case is so close to the Advance Party that they will not reveal their point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e412	What strikes me in such a debate is: Why are so many of the parties that are not going to vote against? There are very few who have gone into it. The only representative who has tabled a statement of reasons is Mr Andersen. The main argument for voting against has been people who are subjected to violence and threats, but there the Stortinget has in the past strengthened the legislation so that they have extended rights and can stay on an independent basis. So they're not being hit by this proposal. So there's been a lot of claims here that we want to hit someone, that we want to make life difficult, that we don't believe that people are fleeing. The Progress Party has a very realistic picture of today's situation. If you look at who travels the most dangerous route in the Mediterranean, it is quite clear that most of those who travel the most dangerous route come from a completely safe and peaceful country. That's something we have to take over. Then it is largely the arrangements and, to a large extent, the stay that tempts more than the need hunts. It puts people in danger. That's why we have to tighten up so that it doesn't get so attractive. And this is such an intrusion. Then it is also nice to hear the representative Sivertsen who goes up and thinks the debate is strange. He doesn't even discuss, he wasn't even on the topic of the debate. He talked about the fare and the bag tax and he thought that the other parties should tighten up and discuss the matter. I find it strange that you don't even agree to defend your own proposals – because you probably aren't so excited about them – or that you don't argue against them well, because the Labour Party is not clear. The point in this case is that if you still need protection in Norway, you will not be hit. Then you still have to stay in Norway. And if, after three years, information has not been found that people cheated or have provided incorrect information, they will continue to stay in Norway. This case and this change have only concerns, by removing the stay in Norway if it is no longer necessary. And who really can be against it? That seems to me to have been very bad in this debate. I miss that you don't just vote against sensible proposals to mark it, you should argue well for it in a proper way, when this case so clearly removes the stay from those who don't need it, and still allows stays for those who need it – it's not harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e423	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e440	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e447	This case is part of replacing taxis' tariffs with a more modern equipment. It is important that the use of alternatives to taximeters does not reverse the positive tax developments in the taxi industry we have seen in recent years. In this context, there is a need to change the basis for third party reporting to the tax authorities in the field of passenger transport. The purpose of the amendment to the Professional Transport Act is to facilitate the supervision of inspection equipment other than taximeters and the financing of supervision by market operators. The purpose of the amendment to the Tax Administration Act is to facilitate third party reporting to the tax bill also for rightsholders who do not use taximeters and are associated with taxi centres. Overall, the changes shall counteract irregularities in the taxi industry and ensure adequate control of the new schemes. The requirement of new Section 48 of the Professional Transport Regulation is that taxis are to be fitted with approved taximeters, and will apply to all persons engaged in the carriage of passengers who are subject to the obligation of professional transport law § 9. It entered into force on 1 November. The requirement for taximeters limits the devices that can be used to ensure the correct calculation of the price and registration of the placing on the market. The acquisition and use of taximeters represents a cost to the taxi operator and could constitute a barrier to the establishment of taxis. It is important that a new technological solution ensures the central consideration of the oversight of several control authorities. This is the cross-political agreement. We have experienced that it has not always been like this. In 2008, all taxis in Norway had to install new taximeters to meet requirements that would put a final stop to cheating and cheating in the taxi industry, as it was at the time. Not everyone was able to follow this up. In an interview in the VG on 21 March 2012, Atle Hagtun, Head of Communications of the Norwegian Taxi Federation, said that: ‘ the investment in a new taximeter costs the individual taxi owner a place between 80,000 and 100,000 kroner. [[...]] – There is a significant amount that includes new equipment, workshop stays, lost income, and the Adjustervesen fee that was set up 40 percent from NOK 2160 to NOK 2800 before Christmas, an increase we found unreasonable.” Since the introduction of the taximeter regulation in 2010, the authorities have experienced positive developments in the taxi industry. If the legislation is to open up to the use of new control equipment, it is necessary to ensure that the new solutions adequately take account of the requirements of taximeters. At the same time, it is important that the requirements are proportionate to the real needs, so that unfair claims are not imposed on the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e467	It should not come as a bomb in this Chamber, nor in the Norwegian public, that the Workers' Party is very sceptical and disagrees with the right-wing government and the Progress Party in amending the taxi legislation, which has now been adopted and implemented from 1 November. We have largely voted against all proposals for amendments, and the result of the changes that have been made leads to a breakdown of an industry. So now the government will make it possible to remove another barrier to get rid of actors who will use a technology that will make control of this industry more difficult. It is likely that the government will not, for too long, facilitate the removal of taximeters in the taxis and facilitate application-driven calculation and reporting of travel prices and the number of passenger kilometres travelled in each taxi. This is the Workers' Party against. We're against it because this is the last barrier to controlling the economy in this business. The behind-the-back applications and software will be based on large international companies with no address in Norway, and probably without address in Europe. Norwegian Eco-Forum is among those who are skeptical about removing the taximeter. It is an organisation that has members from offices and organisations working against both financial crime and the exploitation of human labour and performance. Like the Workers' Party, they ask questions about how to create a barrier to manipulation and lack of control over these applications. We also know that the data collected through the applications can be used – and used – for completely different purposes than the original. That is why the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, has proposed in the case that the government continue the requirement for installed taximeters in taxis. The taximeter has been built into good safety and security for both authorities and customers over decades, as the rapporteur also explained. I address the proposal that we, together with the Senterpartiet and SV, have promoted in the matter. I also have an explanation of vote. Our proposal probably does not get a majority, and then it would not be right to vote against the changes that have the intention to counteract irregularities in this industry. As the President has probably registered, we are sceptical about whether this is possible, but if our proposal is not adopted, which is reason to fear, we will vote subsidiaryly for the government's attempt to gain control of these applications. Now the last scan stands for fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e484	The representative Langholm Hansen then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e489	The majority of the population have adopted major changes in taxi regulation. I want to make it clear that the center part is not part of this bulk mass. We voted against this change, because if we ignore companies like Bolt and Uber, everyone else remains as losers – taxi owners, drivers, patients and ordinary customers. It would not have been necessary to amend the Professional Transport Act, for the Norwegian taxi regulation that we had before 1 November, with the need test and the obligation to be connected to a taxi centre, is not contrary to EEA legislation. The drossies are – or were – considered as part of the public transport service, as stated in the NTP for 2018-2029. Restrictions on the right of freedom of establishment under Article 31 of the EEA Agreement are legal if justified by reasons of general interest, but the changes made by the majority of the population were based on the wish of the right-wing government to complete liberalisation and release. Finland and Sweden have carried out similar liberalisation, and drivers are literally fighting about their customers. For Finnish drivers, wages fell by up to 80 pst. Today, Stortinget deals with a change in the law that allows holders to use control equipment other than taximeters. The case concerns the supervision of inspection equipment and third party reporting to the tax authorities in the taxi industry. The centre part goes in to keep the taximeter. The centre party also adheres to the explanation of vote held by the representative Langholm Hansen. Norwegian Eco-Forum warns against a black industry and writes in the hearing opinion: “This proposed liberalisation will largely reverse and put the industry back where they were with a black and uncontrollable industry.” A report from the Swedish Tax Agency in October 2016 states that only 2 pst. has declared income from Uber. In Denmark it is approx. 1 pst. of the 2000 drivers who have declared the revenue. In Norway, it was 90 pst. of those with a turnover above the VAT ceiling of DKK 50000, who did not declare revenue for the years 2015 and 2016. With the introduction of control equipment, tax authorities will have a more difficult task of controlling taxi operations. Not only does the government introduce the labour society and social dumping — it will also create an innumerable new bureaucracy in the tax system and in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e504	There is no doubt that there are clear dividing lines between the parties here, and I have to say between the blocks. It's obvious. We've had a lot of debates here in the Chamber on the taxi industry, and the dividing lines are so obvious that I'm not going to go that far into it. So what we're discussing today is the last piece to make it easier to get a freeway in the taxi industry. There's no doubt about it. The last thing that could possibly put a couple of screws in the wheels for this smooth, smooth introduction of this release is the taximeter, and that's what's going on right now. We have our own proposal, to which the Langholm Hansen representative referred, and we mainly support it, but we will also support it subsidiaryly because we are trying to control these software applications. We have now received some warnings from a professional team that it may be difficult to control tax matters here, and we should have listened – at least we should have listened – to the professional objections that have come from, among other things. Eco-Forum. And we should have listened to the experiences of other countries that have carried out such a release. So we've seen the experiences of Uber and others. But that's okay, these are things the government is obviously aware of, and they're doing it despite it. Then we have to say that there are clear ideological leaders to push this through. They want it like that, and then they get it like that. The majority here in the Chamber point that out, but I have to say that we have worked what we can, against this release, this liberalisation in the Commercial Transport Act, and we think it is very sad that it has gone this way. What you want to notice in the field among people is enough that the taxi profession, as we know, will disappear. There are quite other actors who are now coming in. We'll see it quite quickly in the evenings. There will come actors about as it crawls flies out of cracks in the wall when it gets hot, in the evening, because then there is money to earn, while we, among other things, are. Get a worse offer in the districts. That's it. It's an entire profession that's kind of threatened and a little bit of a fall in this case, and this is the last nail in the coffin, we can almost say, for a profession and an industry as we know it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e519	The fact that someone is opposed to the new system in the taxi industry can be understood, both in principle in terms of political stance and in terms of the fear of change. But now that you're trying to develop a system to actually replace taximeters, I don't understand. The world is moving forward, and technology is moving forward. We have so many payment systems. Maybe that's what we consumers notice most of all -- the payment systems, how simple it has become, how nice and customer-friendly these different payment systems have become. I hear that the Labour Party is skeptical about this, but what about road pricing, about which they have spoken very well? Because the left has been concerned about this, is actually privacy. The privacy needs to be protected, and it is clear that I do not believe the government will yield until you know that there is a privacy around this. What about other payment systems, e.g. The current meter? It's pretty automatically now. You can always see how you use the current hour by hour, and you can calculate it at price. There is also the contradiction that such things are introduced. I don't understand that the taximeter should be what's kind of the last bastion, as Arne Nävra said. I think Arne Nävra was really very honest when he was standing up here. It was like straw not to carry out the reforms you have in the taxi industry. The last straw was to continue with the taximeter. Actually, it should have come first. That is what should have been done first – getting information simpler to the tax authorities and to the customer. Not least, the payment systems would have become much easier to handle if we had actually implemented this quite smoothly and easily. I don't think that's very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e528	I think the representative Jon Gunnes' speech sums up this debate very well. I'm also happy with the signals that have come from the opposition already right now, that they will vote subsidiaryly for the proposition that lies here. When we know that evolution is happening, it's very important that we get good control. That's what's behind this, that regardless of what system we have in our taxis, we're going to have a good control. We've gained some experience. We know that this industry has had challenges in both cheating and manipulation, and that it has been more widespread in this industry than in other industries. That is why important work was done 10–12 years back in time. It was the red-green government that did it. It has been shown to be successful. We want to build further in line with just this. We know that the Adjustervesen has been responsible for following up on the control of the taximeter. When we now assess new control devices in the taxis, we also consider that the Adjustervesen should have the same responsibility. Then that's what goes on the tax side. We know we've had third party information. This has been a very good experience, and we must continue to do so. The basic idea here is that we have to have the same control with a new code, we have to achieve the same effects. I also hope that the Stortinget has come to realize that it is not like this that we are going through changes now. We want control. We want privacy control, we want control of non-tax challenges, we want good control before we actually implement this. We have now heard the proposal, the proposal for amendments to the regulation with a framework for new control equipment has been being heard. The hearing has clearly identified a number of problem settings such as the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with other departments and in close cooperation with other departments, now working to clarify. The requirement for taximeters will be continued until a new framework is in place for alternative control equipment that can take the same care as the taximeter currently takes. I naturally encourage the size to support this bill proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e550	In my post on the pulpit, I concluded with a sentence that the last scan for control in the taxi industry is now on the decline. We'll deal with Nok.no this time. On 31 October of this year, the day before the taxis were released, we read the following: «Hareide also points out that the requirement to have a taximeter makes it easier to obtain control so that taxes and taxes are paid correctly.» What is the reason why the Council of State will weaken the ability to control an industry that we know has worked hard to clean up economic challenges? Would it not be better to await the development of the industry after liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e561	I agree with the representative from Langholm Hansen that we must have good control of this industry, and a significant work has been done, among other things. tax. On the other hand, we have seen that this has been an industry that if we go back a few years in time, had more juxtaposition than other industries. There has been a positive development. I'm very concerned that when we get this new regulation, it's not going to go beyond the control we have. I believe that the work currently being done is possible for both new control equipment in the cars and to have a good control over it. That's why we deliberately don't have this work. Now there's a good job, and as I also say, it's not like we're proposing to remove the taximeter until we know that we can also take care of the central concerns that the taximeter has today. But there I am optimistic, I think there are good solutions to keep it going – so the taximeter becomes until we have good alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e566	Thanks for the answer. On Dagsnytt 18 on 30 November, the Council of State has a passion with the programme manager about what has happened to him and around him since 2018. The passion is called in the media for a new version of Hareide. In the context of the substance of the policies of the state councils at the time and now, the Council of State, inter alia, states:If I had won in 2018, it might not have been the same regulation for the taxis. It's a bit cryptic, and now that we have the council of state in the main hall, it's tempting to ask what would have been his preferred solution to the challenges that the taxi industry is facing – from his point of view, with the political choice in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e575	It was Kjetil Alstadheim who had made his assessments in the light of spontaneous questioning, where he thought the signatures were very enthusiastic for many of the changes I am now responsible for in the department. And yes, I'm enthusiastic about the changes we're making, among other things. look at the railway, I think it's very good. But I also replied honestly and said that if I had won the election, it is not certain that the taxi regulation was what had been changed in 2018, also because it is a matter to which the Christian People's Party has a rather relaxed relationship. But the Christian People's Party does not have a relaxed relationship with the fact that we get good control of this industry, that we just ensure that the positive changes that have been associated with cheating and manipulation in this industry have become better, which I also think we can last. But I share very well the perspective that Jon Gunnes' representative gives, that I think it would be very strange to see that it was just taxed that we saw as the big ugly wolf in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e580	Thanks for the answer. Last night when I went to the airport, taxi number L 706 picked me up to drive me. He sighed and said that now you are actually running free taxi in Kristiansand. The company Ridel has now purchased and received 20 white Teslas, and they have now offered free driving up to two trips per seven days per person, that is, during a period when the entire industry is on the brink. They have now ordered taximeters a little cheaper than the representative Jon Gunnes talked about at NOK 80 000 – NOK 100 000, for approx. $50,000 per item. What would the Council say to my taxi driver in L 706?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e589	I've had a good meeting with the entire taxi industry in the last few weeks. They naturally experience different experiences, but I also want to say that very much of the feedback I have received from the industry has been quite positive in this very early period. But it's important that we follow developments closely. What everyone is all about is that it's important that we now have a lot of and good control of the industry, and I think that's important. Then it is also important that we use the political space that is really here. We know that two states are already working on the one-rights model, and I think that is important for the taxi offer to be good in the whole country. What I can say is that we want an industry that operates with good transport, but where there is just to be control. That's what we decide today, that we guarantee a good check regardless of the type of control unit in the cars. It will be important against privacy and tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e596	The Estonian company Bolt has received 56 million. euro in start-up loans from the European Investment Bank. Bolt is ready to move into the Norwegian taxi market. And so does Uber. You can't be for companies like Bolt and Uber and for the unemployed. These companies have the unemployee society as their business concept. What is adopted today will make it easier for these companies. What the right-wing government and the Advance Party want to come to, is a business model that is banned in Uber's home state, California, because of social dumping. Does the Council of State really want the labour society back in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e603	What we are adopting today is a good control of the regulation that we have adopted before. So I also thought it was good when I heard the representative Siv Mossleth from the pulpit saying that the second will go for what is here. I think that's what's at stake here, that we should have a good control of the new regulation that we get here. So I think we're going to follow and see the development of this industry. There are many opportunities for innovation and innovation that can provide a better supply, better adapt the market situation as well. This has also been an industry – I did not say that in my post, but as I also felt it was important to underline – where innovation and innovation have not been the biggest. This legal regulation can get more out of the way. Then we have to follow it closely and make sure that we get the best transition possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e610	The French Supreme Court called the model: those who do the job must take the costs as if they were self-employed without having any real independence. What we are opening for now is not for self-employed people. It's a middle ground where people are not employed, and they're not self-employed – they're freelance workers. However, in terms of security to be checked: Even now in a criminal procedure if data are to be collected from abroad, it may take two to three years to get an answer at all as to whether these data can be accessed. So how can the government be sure that the control authorities will have control of applications owned, operated and operated by foreign corporations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e617	It's some of the work we're looking at right now. That is also why my birthright is that the taximeter will be continued until we have a new framework that ensures that the alternative control equipment can also take care of the key concerns that the taximeter is currently carrying out. So I'm probably not in agreement that this adds up to an unemployed worker society. There are different industries that have competition, for which it also has a meaning that is not necessarily negative. We have seen that this industry has not worked optimally, as it has been to this day. I look forward to seeing the real consequences of this regulation, but I think we have to follow it closely, and we have to ensure good control. That's why I'm very much in favour of what we're presenting today. It will be a better control, regardless of the control equipment in the cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e624	I'm not in doubt that we're moving towards a layman's society. I think I have noticed it on many transport matters. There is one word that has been absent from all the government councils that have been in this government and former governments since 2013, and it's the employees, it's the employees. It has been absent. There has been a red-listed word here in the Chamber from these government representatives. Passengers, perhaps travellers, have been occupied with providing better service – yes. But the employees have almost never been mentioned. But I'm going to go further – because I have a final question: Around a quarter of those who have travelled by taxi have felt unsafe according to the results that the Consumer Council has achieved in the past. Will this new scheme make passengers feel safer? Would it be important to put the impact on it as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e631	Yes, just the control equipment we get should be the ones that the taximeter has given us today. The taximeter gives a very good guide to what travels you have, we have a good log. It's that kind of leadership, and it's been working on it now. Then I want to say, link them to add: I think it is good for them to add that there is a development within the industry. If the industry doesn't have a development, it also affects them. That is why I believe that innovation and innovation will also benefit them. But I can assure the representative that just checking and the wholeness of this is what does not mean that we have now removed the requirement for taximeters. We want to be sure that they will be taken care of – I have repeated that several times. We don't remove the taximeter until we have the necessary control, and that's what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e641	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e648	When a law is introduced and it is such that we have to sit and discuss new remedies to the law or new laws to make it easier to make the law that is introduced work, I start to become a little skeptical. There is no doubt that these things that we are now discussing have been in the debate before the law was introduced, and it is clear that when we need to have a further legal basis to ensure the supervision of new control equipment and third-party reporting to the tax authorities, something is going on. It has also been an objective of the amendment to the Tax Administration Act to facilitate third party reporting. What is a third party reporting to the tax bill? In addition, when you have an Eco-Forum that was skeptical before the law that has led to this was introduced, and is it also, after all, when we discuss this, this is not about the fact that taximeters are old-fashioned or whether they are consumer-friendly and such things, it is about how to have control and supervision in an industry that has been demanding over many, many years. That's what this is all about. Of course, control and supervision of laws and regulations and taxes are also concerned with the fact that there is a sector in which ordinary workers, who may have had employment, had contracts with their employer, were linked to a taxi centre. So now we have an industry where this disappears. It is clear that when we now have to deal with a law to do this, and even the state council itself says that we keep the old until we are sure to put the new one in place, I think like that: maybe that taximeter system was a good system for controlling an industry. In fact, the market economy has evolved from a blight to a leading business in tax evasion and black economy, and it is clear that when we now get some new players with no fixed connection to taxi centres, it is easy to be fooled into this with both tax evasion and tax evasion. How we can be sure that the financial and security controls of the applications owned, operated and operated by non-resident enterprises are highly unclear. The Government's intention is that the changes introduced in this case should counteract irregularities in the taxi industry and ensure control of the new taxi industries as well as the actors responsible for financing such controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e661	First of all, I want to say that what has happened so far is that we have tightened up with the other new players in the taxi industry, because now something has been introduced that has not been done before, namely that everyone who transports people should have taximeters. It's a new group. This means that Uber's drivers must also have tax collectors, as the scheme is today. That's the way it is. Once we've agreed to this, the reform is so far a side of it, but it's also a requirement that we've met many times from taxi drivers, because of the unreasonable cost they have of having taximeters, not least with the annual adjustments they need from Adjustervessen. The 2009 figures do not apply only to the purchase of taximeters. There is the maintenance of taximeters, and there is the adjustment of taximeters. There has been a wish in the taxi industry as well. It's just that now this has come up, not as a project of its own, but it's kind of become a barrier that someone is trying to hide behind. On 28 February 2019, a report was submitted from a sample in which Adjustervesenet, the tax administration and other authorities were involved. They set up a list of what they can imagine needs to be arranged through the new system. The report states that ‘a digital control equipment shall: Could be used for all types of taxi trips, whether ordered in advance or not Ensure a safe calculation of the price offer for the taxi trip from the indicated destination, so that the total price is agreed before the taxi trip starts Display information about the copyright holder, driver, position, agreed price, etc. en-route Produce a sales receipt for completed journey Could also be used in cash payments Have secure login and identification of driver, permissions, driver’s ticket and car Could store and transfer relevant transaction data so that tax information can be provided by the operator and be available to the operator and the owner in a standardised format High data quality and data integrity by not easily tampering with control equipment or data stored in control equipment It would be possible to monitor: Implement general provisions on privacy, universal design and non-discrimination’ These are requirements to be met by the new instrument before being approved. It's not negative that you actually take this exercise before removing the taximeter, instead of doing it afterwards. Someone compares to what you had with Uber in other countries, where there are individuals running. Here even the car that is being used should be marked with a license number. There's a tightening up that we've done in the new law. That's the background.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e707	It has been interesting to hear both the Council of State and the representatives of Gunnes and Igstad. Had even been the starting point for a desired better control mechanism, there could have been something in what they say, but that is not the starting point for the debate. I'm going to quote a statement from the proposition, and it says like this: ‘It has been an objective to avoid unnecessary barriers to establishment, including: by abolishing the numbering of rights and by adjusting the requirements of the rightholder.’;» That's the starting point. The government parties and the Progress Party want everyone who wants to start driving a cab. That's the starting point. Only one has normal habits, one can actually start driving taxis. That is the starting point for the whole debate. In June, the majority removed the requirement for links with the taxi centre. The next one wants to remove, is taxed. The representative Igstad now confirmed that it is going to be removed. What's on the table now is a change in the law — a last spasm — to try to control the new mechanisms that are coming. Of course – to Gunnes and others – we are going to vote in favour of it subsidiaryly, because it is better than nothing, but the best thing would have been to keep the taximeter on. That's the starting point. I also ask the question: who really wants to get through this? Tax authorities are warning against what is now happening. Those who work against the crime of working life warn. Employee organisations warn. Employers’ organisations warn. Disability organisations warn. They warn against liberalising the taxi policy. Who's getting through this? We hear from the change of lines with the representative Langholm Hansen that the Hareide Council is not cheering for this. The Progress Party has not yet spoken in the debate. What does the Progress Party think? Earlier when a truck was driven, there were a number of taxi owners and taxi drivers who were convinced Progress Party voters. Now there is no taxi driver a meeting in the taxi, who says they will vote the Progress Party. They're furious at the Progress Party, which is involved in destroying an entire industry. Who is it that is really for the changes that have taken place since 1 November, and that are gradually further liberalised when the taximeter requirement is removed? With this government's policy, the reality is that what we used to call piracy is now becoming legal in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e723	Thank you, President, and congratulations! It is a bit funny that the representative Myrli took my script, because this is exactly what I had also noticed: there is no one from the Progress Party who has taken the word so far. They are not even on the list of speakers in the future – and so they are the pure and ranked right-wing librarians, with their two government councils from the past, who have made this proposal on the release of dross. I have – just like the representative Myrli – recorded that there has been a case in the taxi industry of voting in the Progress Party. They're absent. So I understand why the Progress Party is silent and trying to sit still in the boat, so that their defense of the release that has been proposed and that is to be carried out is not to be noticed. I'm not going to spend too long on this, but in the end, what I want to hear about is the cost of this. Has the Ministry calculated the costs of implementing this system? I don't even dare think about what the health service is working on. That is a name I would like to mention in this connection: Akson. It's quite expensive, I've heard. There's less involved here, I understand, but has the Council of State estimated the costs of implementing this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e732	We get a new discussion about taxi regulation when we discuss this, too, even though the matter is somewhat more limited than applying to the entire legislation and the entire taxi regulation. I have to say I react when the representative Myrli claims that the new taxi regulation opens up the possibility that pirate taxis become legal. In this way, the representative of Myrli should have managed to get involved in the new taxi regulation that he knows that it requires permission, that it requires a driver's ticket, and that it should take legal form. Norwegian laws and regulations still apply, pirate taxis are just as illegal now as they were before November. I must say that I am strongly responding to the presentation of this type of rhetoric from this pulpit. So until that matter is really about. Is it such that I am sure that taximeters are the one final technology, the solution that gives us the best security, best control and best follow-up of this industry in the future? I don't feel sure about it. I think it's okay that we open up new technology in the taxi industry too, but it has to be done in a way that makes it verifiable. It has to be done in such a way that we can actually make sure that we can control the industry in a good way. It is precisely that supervision, the follow-up mechanism, contained in this legislative amendment. I have to say that taximeters are a good system to control the industry, but it may be that tomorrow, or in a year or two or three years, there is another kind of technology that surpasses today's taximeter technology, which makes it both cheaper and better and provides better control than we have today. Do we want to rule out that possibility? I think it's a strange debate, that we're going to be so far behind on new technology, that we're not going to be able to see that there can be another kind of technology in the future that can actually give us better solutions and better control, not the opposite. We've been very clear all along: it's not about giving up the duty obligation until there's a system that is technologically and controlly at least as good. And then I think it's kind of emotive that we're going to be in the back of this room so that we can't see that there can be new technology, another kind of technology, that can actually give us better solutions in the future. I think it's a strange debate, and I think we should be a little more technological offensive in what we're doing, but at the same time, of course, in order and proper conditions and with good control and supervision of an industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e745	At least there is no doubt that this is a debate that is about something quite different and far more far-reaching than the matter is really about. It's really about, it's about control and we're going to make sure you have cleanliness and a system. I'm not very surprised that the Center Party is stabbing its head in the sand, hoping it's going over, and wants everything to be like it has been, or really like it was 20 years ago. But that the Workers' Party, which I often experience talking very much about using new technology, seeing new opportunities, doing things in a slightly different way, also stabs my head in the sand and just thinks that it should continue to be just as it has been for many, many years, surprises me a little more. With SV it is not so strange either, because the representative Arne Nävra is very much that things should preferably be like they have been, and that we should not do anything else. But it gets to be a little bit like this in a lot of ways that you want to get the whole debate over again. I believe that what this debate is about is ensuring control, supervision, etc. In fact, there are also quite a number of requirements to be allowed to drive a taxi in the future. It sounds like everyone's against you. But if everyone had been against, no one would have done this. It's just to google and look at the challenges of taxis, you see a lot of suggestions that show that you actually need to make some changes. Because it hasn't worked well. The second largest actor thinks it is very good that there are changes. And there are other, new actors who want something to happen. And the funny thing -- for those who think this works so well -- is that at home in my county, Telemark, or in the districts, it's someone who's been doing tour activities that's been trying to get taxi tickets for many, many years, but it's been cool impossible because it's been about that it's inherited. You have not had the opportunity to drive in a serious and proper way by taxi, because the authorities have said no, no, no. He was at least very happy to see that someone thinks a little differently and does things another way. And there are very, very many others who are satisfied. I think it's a little special that every time we have this, and every time there's something about this little bit, we get the whole debate again. That debate we've had so many times in the hall here that I didn't see any need to participate in it. But what we're experiencing today is that we have two or three parties that really stick their heads in the sand, which hope it goes over, and that won't see new opportunities, while some of us others are optimists and see the technology as an opportunity that can actually do things even better. I believe and feel that there are both owners and drivers who are very satisfied, and many cheers still at the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e760	When I was the leader of the transport committee, I can remember that the presidency called me in to get better control when the transport committee had meetings in Stortinget. Then it is good to see that there is something that has not been changed in ten years. I want to say, and I thought the representative Nils Aage Igstad said it very clearly: it is the way we have now done on the taximeter front, not a liberalisation so far – it is the opposite. What goes on with the driver and demands on the driver is not a liberalisation; it has our clear demands, although the general regulation of the law is a liberalisation. This is about that we want to have the best solutions. We'll explore it and look at it, and then we won't change anything until we have a better solution. As the committee leader said, let the taximeter be until we have at least the same solution. So for the reason that I took the word, and that's it at cost, as the representative Nävra took up. It's probably not the cost part that's the most decisive element, because there'll probably be other control equipment anyway. But for example, we think that the Adjusters should be in control of the taximeters and other control equipment. It'll be a cost that's in the industry anyway. The challenges with the options we are currently working with include: on that with control, which we must know is safe, and it goes on tax, and as I also said in my first post – third-party tax reporting will be grounded anyway, as it is today, also with the new control equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e773	I noticed that the committee leader thought it was dry, what I said about piracy, but that's actually quite true. I said that what we used to call pirate thrush, now becomes legal. The pirates who once stood around the corner with the lights turned off in order for them not to be seen, don't have to do it now. Now they can stand in the regular taxi queue, because they run and drive for a few hours on Friday night or Saturday night, now become legal. So there is no longer any requirement for connection to taxi centres. There is no requirement for light on the roof – it adopted the majority in June. So the next one is that the taximeter requirement is going to go away. What really is a taxi? That is what is the whole policy of the government parties and the Progress Party – that everyone who wants should be allowed to drive taxis. If you have an EU-approved car and normal habits, yes, you are granted a permit. Then you can drive a cab. That's the whole point. I am surprised that the majority does not argue for what is their policy. It's in the proposition. They want everyone who wants to drive a cab. That's the starting point. The starting point is not that they should improve the control mechanisms in the industry. Everyone sees that taximeters are a good idea, but it violates the idea of the four majority parties that there should no longer be any restrictions on establishing themselves to drive taxis, so they also have to remove the tax rate. And then the proposal we now have to deal with, one last straw straw to have some control mechanisms left. We're voting for it, of course, because it's better than nothing. But the best thing would of course have been to continue the taximeter. This government is systematic, it should have, in making it more difficult for workers. Today is the day of the cleaners. We know how this government has balded and chosen with the cleaners in the defense, the cleaners on the railway and other workers. Now it is the taxi industry that stands for strike. Now the government wants to go away from the fact that it should be possible to have a job to live on, which is difficult enough today. I've met a taxi driver who says it's been three to four hours since the last time they had a trip, and so now the majority wants even more people to go into that industry, that even more people are going to drive taxis, and that it's going to be a lot easier to establish themselves. No, this is not credible. I understand that we have to threaten the Progress Party up on the pulpit. They have not yet defended the taxi policy. There will be some cryptic statements that this will be good, and that there are opportunities to do this well, but the big discussion is that they are now in the process of destroying an entire industry. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e788	I should have waited to draw myself for the second time when I now see that even the Advance Party is drawing itself again, because there are some people who stick their heads in the sand here, so it's the Advance Party, who have to be whipped up on the pulpit. It was said that the Workers' Party sticks its head in the sand, but then we are not alone in doing so. There are many, many cases where full liberalisation has been warned of and the consequences of removing tax incentives. So to Gunnes' representative, I think Gunnes' representative has better expertise in the energy industry than he does in the taxi industry when he has to refer to a current meter to show how great it is with an application on a tablet or a phone to record journeys and passenger kilometres. I really don't understand why it's urgent to go to these changes now, when we hear that this might be one, two or three years ahead. Then I don't understand why you're going to change this now. To the statements that can be seen as the drier industry is sloppy and slightly forward - facing: Last week the taximeter service was down in Rogaland. Then I got paid with Vipps. I was sent a claim to pay with Vipps three hours after I left the taxi. And they also have an application where you can order. I order a taxi to arrive in good time before my plane leaves the Sun. The dross comes, and I get a fixed price offer – yes, I get everything I need. I went to Ridel in my reply with the Council of State. Ridel in Kristiansand is one of these new, amazing companies that are going to run now. I looked at their application. It's cliché-like Taxifix, which is very common in Norway, so evolution hasn't been so great on the application front. There's a lack of control over foreign software owners we're very anxious about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e802	The party of progress gives the Center a lot of pes, and we have to live with that. The party fights against the party's turnaround and argues with a broken foot after constantly falling in the ladder. One criticism is that the Center Party will want everything to be the way it has always been. But in my opinion, it is very positive to be for an orderly working life and the old term ‘taxi — everywhere, always’. During the previous election campaign, all the taxis on Senja drove with the Central Party logo on the car. In the next election, I believe that a majority of the taxi owners and drivers will vote at the Center Party. With regard to requirements for drivers, they must now be as low as possible in order to get the most into the profession. We'll get another taxi industry, which will be characterized by a lot of temporaryity. In a way, government parties say that there should be some requirements for permission, but there is one situation now where you do not need these requirements at all, and that is if a cab owner operates a company in the EU. Then they can get directly into Norway and drive a taxi here as well. I think these individual taxis that cross the border and run will help destroy the market in the same way that Uber and Bolt do. I also look at what is almost like a vacuum in the situation we get into now. Should it be taximeters? No, there should not be taximeters, but there should be schemes, and no one knows when taximeters should be introduced. All of this helps to create a very high degree of uncertainty for the taxi industry, for serious business owners and for drivers, and after today I haven't been reassured for the future for the taxis and the future for people who depend on taxis – both people who need taxis sometimes, and people who need taxis as part of the health situation they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e813	That's absolutely right -- I didn't mean to take the word. I really thought this was a fantastic case for parties that are traditionally very for injunctions, bans, regulations and control activities that are far, far beyond what the Progress Party could actually imagine. When the Workers' Party, SV and now the Centre's party are against a better control, a further tightening of control than today's, it's quite incredible. One stands and defends an industry where the prices for each km driven have increased considerably year after year and the profitability of the industry has decreased, which means that the revenues for the taxi owner and the taxi driver have fallen. I actually thought the Workers' Party was also for the employees, but it's now over. The representative Sverre Myrli is standing here claiming that now pirate taxis become legal. It is frightening that one of the Workers' Party can stand here without having read the matter and cannot have the new regulation. No one can drive a taxi without the car being marked. Nor can one drive if the car is not approved. Something that has improved with the new Regulation is that there are also stricter requirements for the driver. One tries to discuss again, where there are, in fact, requirements for the competence of the driver who has not been before. For the Progress Party, this is actually good. I'm not surprised at the Center Party. They have doubts about an old solution, the traditional taximeter, that it can only last forever, and they seem to be taxis like before. We got the answer: the center party doesn't care about people. Most people think it's incredibly expensive. One should doubt that everything should be like before, the time it was like that. It's always nice to think like that, but when all the other industries move on and facilitate new technology, the Progress Party cheers on it. So this doesn't mean less control, but actually more control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e824	The debate starts to take a little off when you start talking about the clean-up staff on the railway, or what it was about. What we're talking about is, of course, this is to make a law change that makes it possible to control this with taximeters and driving. They're using applications today. It is not that often I take a taxi, but being able to order a taxi via a mobile phone is very nice. It would have been very nice if the taxi driver could also use that application to report my trip and also avoid taximeters. It could be that he would think it was very nice not to travel and have this taximeter adjusted annually to ensure that the customer gets the right price. It could also happen that the customer would be satisfied with some of the taxi drivers that are in the area today, and that people who drive a taxi are insecure, could be hatched. I have had many enquiries from taxi drivers who have complained that they got in again drivers who could have been convicted or had a fine because they had behaved improperly against the customer in the car, but they could never throw them out of the central bank, because they had the legal right to be attached to a central bank. So there are many things that this case concerns, that also go at the customers' woe and well, and I don't think that it is that we are concerned about the customers' woe and well, is a uterus. In fact, when we have public services, I think that the welfare of customers is important. It is not going to be such that anyone can start taxiing in Norway. One thing is that you get permission easily, but you have to have a driver's license, you have to have a number on the car – that you are approved in the system – which is readable, and at last we have the customer. If the customer enters a car that does not show in any way that it is a taxi, the customer has a responsibility. You take a chance, but it is quite possible to still see that a taxi is a taxi, even if the sign is not on the roof. So I think maybe when the taxi operators now have more freedom to choose who is going to drive for them, the better quality of the taxi industry in general. And maybe there won't be so many queues because there are too many taxis in certain parts of the country, and maybe – I'm pretty sure – there will also be another offer for those who live in the districts, that they can use someone who works part-time, and not one who works full-time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e833	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e838	I assumed that when the representative Stordalen took the floor, I had to go up again, unfortunately. When he accuses the taxis of becoming more expensive and getting a worse profit, I think the Progress Party and Stordalen should be involved in taking part of the blame for it through increased car charges and other charges. Then the representative Igstad came up and talked about it being okay if you could also pay and register the trip through the apps we have. As far as I know, Taxifix, for example, which is very widespread, is integrated with the taxi, so that there is control over what is fixed price. It is precisely the customers and drivers we have in mind in the Workers' Party. It is possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, namely the drivers' well-being and the customers' well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e847	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e852	The centre party obviously cares about people, and people know that, no matter what the Progress Party might think about that matter. It is said that the debate will end when talking about cleaners. But cleaners, taxi drivers and trailer drivers, the underpaid employees of Wizz Air – all this is a piece of the same thing. It's a policy that goes in the wrong direction. We get a downward spiral that facilitates social dumping and the unemployment society. The development of a society in which we are going back to the fact that an increasingly large part is standing – not with lua at hand, but with the telephone at hand – and having difficulty in being in the labour market, we do not want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e859	I am not going to use my entire speaking time, but there are limits to how much this is out of some representatives of claims that are completely, completely wrong. I think everyone here, at least those who have been present in Stortinget in the last three years, and even in the near seven years, knows that the car charges have gone down enormously. It is thanks to the Progress Party and the other government parties: Right, Christian People's Party and Left. This has helped to make cars safer and safer. That means that the cars that are going to drive here are getting even better, and that also means that the industries here are getting better. What we've been concerned about in this matter in terms of the principle, which some people are trying to draw up in this debate, is to make the industry more profitable. For those who want to keep up with today's system: it's a fact, not something I claim, that the profitability of the entire taxi industry has fallen significantly over many, many years. Earnings are lower, and it becomes more expensive and expensive and disproportionately expensive to take a taxi ride. When the Center Party thinks it is very nice to do so, the Centre Party clearly represents a completely different selection from the one the Progress Party is doing. For the FrPs, and at least for the most people, it feels incredibly expensive, as something that is crude for most people, to take a taxi. But if the Center Party wants to do it in the future, along with the Workers' Party, I want them to take a good turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e868	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen is right that I have never been a taxi driver. But I've been a bus driver. I am sure that the bus drivers today do a much better job than what they did when I drove. Then we ran with money collection, and then there was quite a lot of work and interference and really a lot back and forth with it. Today, the bus driver is a driver. He looks after his safety, he looks after his passengers. I think that element should also be included in this. Even if it's not the main argument, you have to bring it with you. So until the taxi policy and the deregulation we have now implemented: what surprises me now is that the exclusive model is not being used anymore. That was a strong requirement, and I think it is also a legitimate requirement that we have to have exclusive rights in many district municipalities. Many regions should have exclusive rights – that they should not enter into this competition and that they should be adapted to it. Yes, one has to have over 20,000 inhabitants and a certain density of settlement before it becomes a requirement to release a slightly more liberal taxi industry. In fact, the county council is allowed to exercise exclusive rights. Where is that going to be? I think it'll be a need. It's quite a long time since we discussed this. This is not something we adopted yesterday. But who cares? The county authorities shall do so. I hope that those of you who have a lot of communication with the majority in the different county councils also ask that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e877	The representative Sverre Myrli has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e882	After hearing the article from Hoksrud, I wondered if the Progress Party had really settled into what the matter we are discussing today, is about, and after hearing the first article in Stordalen, I no longer wondered about it. He actually claims that the minority, which is opposed to removing the taximeter, is against better control. That it's going to work! The thing is, the majority of the parties want to liberalize the taxi industry. Then they want to remove the taximeter, and then the good control mechanism that was there disappears. And now they come with a code to have a certain control. That's the truth. So the majority want to continue the taximeter – and now I say it again – because that is the very best system and the very best way to keep it under control. And then I can ask one question, and it keeps getting one answer, and it can the Progress Party answer: Who thinks it's going to be better control by removing the taximeter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e890	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e895	In contrast to Gunnes' representative, I have been a taxi driver, one day, and had a passenger in the Upper Eiker countryside, and he had a Norwegian glass with a home burn between his legs. And then I was the driver who was insecure, and not the passenger. My point here is, of course, that this system that is now being proposed might be good. She can do that. I'm very happy that they're holding on to the taximeter until they find something, but that's how, as the representative Myrli says, there's going to be a dividing line here. It is clear that the discussion we now have here can bear the mark of change, but there is a strong need for us in the opposition to say what we think about this liberalisation of the taxi industry. It is such a big thing, so it is no wonder that we say what we think about it, and we have said so many times now that this was the last opportunity to say something about the way this carries. I guess it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e902	Well, I guess we in the Center Party don't understand our own best, we don't understand the best of others, and we stick our head in the sand. Well, what this really is all about – and that's what I was a little bit into in my previous post – is that here you have created a law in the start-up phase that doesn't cover up what are the issues that almost everyone, from both the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV, notified about. It's exclusive. Why do we have that? Well, that's because that law isn't adapted to the terrain that's out in the Kingdom of Norway. It is no longer such that there are taxis that stand ready and wait because there may be one, two or three people who need it during that night. There are no taxis standing and waiting when someone is going to the hospital or down to a playtime in the morning. So there are companies that don't want to go into this with exclusive rights, because it's so strict that they're afraid of the performance they need to be able to operate in the industry. Then you ask why the exclusive right is not being used. Yeah, why doesn't it? It's because people don't trust a law that makes so few demands on those in the industry that you have problems getting into the exclusive model. Why, when you're talking about exclusive, is there something that's adapted to the praie market? Why? Then you don't say that the exclusive right applies to those who are going to drive the kids at school, or to those who are on the road to health, who are also on the market. What you do is you remove all of the points of view of the taxi that is out in the small municipality, which means it doesn't take the chance of entering into such an exclusive model -- actually. That's a little bit of a reason. When you get back to what's happening in town, there's no doubt that the professional pride of the professional driver that the taxi driver really was is gone. You can imagine that there should be other systems that make this easier for the customer, easier for the user, easier to pay. It may be that it is experienced in the future, but today there is no doubt that the person who sits and is taxi driver and has had his pride around that job is gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e913	This became a bit of a debate. Two months ago, I met with the taxi industry in Trondheim. Their message to us was that if the demand for taximeters disappears, then the last seriousness of the industry disappears. When it is said that it is cheaper, that prices have increased on taxi trips: this has been tried out in other countries, and prices have become worse – there is greater uncertainty for both passengers and drivers. Then we agree that you have to do what you can with the law. But in terms of this exclusive right to safety for taxis in the district, the challenge is that the exclusive right must be published in tender, and there is no guarantee that the winner of that offer is the same as having the school kiss or the patient kiss, so it can be even less to live off for those in the district. The county councils have therefore waited because they are insecure about how this will turn out. The technology to make things easier is clear, and there is no connection between free slip and using a technology to get better solutions for both taxi drivers and travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e926	In conclusion, I have just a few comments in the debate. It is clear that there will be a debate here on the entire regulation of taxis, when we also discuss that part of the control mechanism related to any new technology in this sector. To the representative of Fasteraune: the exclusive right model is part of the overall regulation of taxis that was presented and dealt with and adopted here in the United Kingdom in the past, precisely to compensate for the fact that there are not all places in the country where competition necessarily works and that is a basis for competition. That's why we've established an exclusive right model to deal with this area. It's not because we don't see the challenges around the whole country. It's the opposite: it's because we just saw that there was no basis for competition across the country, and that someone needed other mechanisms in those parts of the country. I even come from a place that probably – it can be her – ends up with an exclusive model. But for the time being, the municipality of More and Romsdal have proposed to open up in line with regulation, and then they look at the situation and see how this develops, and then they might consider tightening up later and using the exclusive model where necessary. I think it's a sensible approach to a change in regulation. And when you mix school kisses and patient kisses into this: Patient kisses are something that health companies have previously also handled through their own offers and that they continue to deal with through their own offers. For example, whether the county councils will take into account: an initiative now, within the framework given here, to try to coordinate this, is also possible. But there is nothing about the old regulation that suggests that these tenders were collated. No, it wasn't. But that possibility might be there that there might be a basis for a greater degree of interconnection. So in the end, the taximeter has earned the industry well – that's not what it's about. It's a technology that's been good and useful until now, and maybe even longer. It's not about removing the tax liability. It's about opening up new technologies, given that the new technology provides at least as good a control and supervision regime, we're going to call it what the taximeter does. It's not about removing the tax liability until we know there's another safe technology in place. And as for what develops in the market: I think it might be a bit smart here, from my perspective at least, to be a little technology-optimist and see that yes, evolution happens. It happens at full speed also in other parts of society. I think it makes sense to be able to apply new technologies where new technologies provide us with better solutions and security and security to control industry, as is needed in this case. I want to welcome new technology, but it must be at least as good as the one we have today, before we replace the old taximeters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e943	It was a little wonderful when the representative Langholm Hansen came to the pulpit and talked about fees. Then I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has an alternative budget proposal now, which means that there are increased charges on cars and on fuels, for example. Or if there are many who are going to drive a taxi by electric car, for example, it might be the expensive cars you have to have, and there the Workers' Party has also proposed to introduce increased VAT, which also means something, or plug-in hybrid, where the government had proposed an increase which meant that there were very few models that could continue to have a tax reduction, but I have not registered that the Workers' Party has proposed to lower it. So that means that there's someone who's happy to increase people's taxes within the car, that's the Workers' Party. It's okay to bring it too. Then I want to say, because it's kind of funny to listen to those parties that are so incredibly busy that we're going back to where we were before: they're sitting and running the vast majority of county municipalities around the country. There is great opening and possibility of imposing exclusive rights if you want. But the vast majority of county councils have chosen not to do so. The centre party has many rapporteurs, the Labour Party has several rapporteurs. They run the store all the way, so if you really wanted to, you could do it. But you didn't choose to do that, as the local representative also said here from the pulpit. We are concerned – and I believe it is important – with ensuring and ensuring and being positive to those who want to see opportunities. When I've listened to representatives from the red-green parties, there's almost no one who's been positive, it sounds like, who's operating within this industry. There's no fact. It's actors that are very positive. The second largest actor has welcomed this. It was not the liberalisation debate we were going to have today, but it was. As the representative Nävra said, this may have been the last time he had the opportunity to do this, so he would also do it. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring that there is control, and that we have good control capabilities, but we are committed to using new technologies and opportunities. And when it sounds like it works very well, go in, as I said, and Google a little bit on both controls and other things and how to get checked and controlled. As it has been today, it has not been the best solution either. That's why we believe that new technology can actually find even better solutions to ensure and care for society's important things in relation to taxes and controls, etc. I'm looking forward to new technology. We're optimists, we're forward-looking, and we're looking positively at new, good opportunities and we're not hanging out again in the old, which we feel some of the other parties are very concerned about in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e956	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e973	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e980	Today, the vehicle can only be detained to ensure payment of penalties imposed on the driver of the car. An overall committee is behind Recommendation A on an adjustment to the legislation allowing authorities to withdraw registration plates and registration certificates or to take the vehicle into custody. Now the authorities have much more authority to stop and withhold vehicles that break Norwegian law, including breaches of cabotage rules. Access to detention may be essential to ensure payment of penalties imposed, as cross-border recovery has proved to be challenging. The extension of detention will have a much better preventative effect. The Labour Party is pleased that the government is finally making proposals for this absolutely necessary legislative change, which we have long wanted. The unprofessional operators are thus clearly informed that Norwegian authorities are not going to include silk gloves on those who deliberately violate the rules and are not allowed to settle separately. Nevertheless, we believe that there are still gaps in the law that are not covered by these changes in the law. This applies to measures relating to the liability of the carrier and to the liability of the carrier. In addition, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Advance Party, wish to ask the Government to draw up legislative proposals allowing Norwegian authorities to withhold vehicles that are due to tolls. The same majority asks the government to prepare and submit proposals to limit foreign truck transport in Norway in line with decisions taken following the examination of the EU Mobility Package. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are promoting two proposals, asking that the information and passport requirement be included in the Road Traffic Act, and that infringements of generalisation provisions be included as part of the risk classification system. I have thus addressed the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e993	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e998	It is an important legislative change in the Road Traffic Act and the Professional Transport Act that we are dealing with today, and hopefully will lead to a fairer transport sector. The situation today is that neither the police nor the state road service have the possibility of holding back driving gear in order to ensure that sanctions imposed for infringements of the Professional Transport Act are actually paid. The amendments to the Road Traffic Act provide for an adjustment of the current rules on the right to hold back carriage where necessary to ensure the payment of penalties imposed on infringements of road traffic legislation. These changes mean that a vehicle can be held back in order to ensure payment of fines and infringement charges where the penalty is imposed on the owner or the person who disposes of the vehicle, typically the transport undertaking. However, the legislative changes alone will not have the necessary effect to ensure satisfactory recovery. In addition, the owner of the vehicle must in fact be held responsible for the payment of the fine or the infringement fee in cases where it is natural, either jointly and severally liable with the driver, or on his own grounds. Today, the vehicle can only be held back to ensure payment of penalties imposed on the driver. This amendment could lead to increased road safety, non-discrimination and fairer competition between operators in the transport sector. We also note that the proposal has been being heard, and that the hearing bodies are essentially in favour of the proposal and believe that the changes can have a preventive effect and ensure better enforcement of the legislation. The bill therefore proposes that it be possible to withhold vehicles where necessary to ensure payment of fines or infringement fees. The vehicle shall only be capable of being held back where necessary to ensure payment of penalties imposed for a breach of legislation. Where there are other possibilities to ensure that the requirement can be recovered later, the vehicle will not be held back. It must also be proportionate. The right of withdrawal shall also apply only to running goods, and not to the load, and only until the penalty has been paid, or the requirement is guaranteed. When it comes to cabotage rules, it is part of European legislation. There is now a process of implementing the EU Mobility Package in Norway. The mobility package was adopted in the EU in July 2020, and once the legislative changes have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement, the government will start work on the implementation of Norwegian legislation. We think it's natural for the Storting to come back to these questions in connection with this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1013	This is an amazingly important cause of happiness, for which there is a great deal of agreement in the hall and out among the people most. It is a pleasure for the transport industry, it is a joy for the NLF, the Norwegian Lastebilgeier-Verbund, who has worked long and hard to get better and more equal conditions of competition. It is also a pleasure for everyone who wants it to be as equal as possible to those who are engaged in the transport industry in Norway. In fact, it is also a matter of satisfaction for road safety, that we are getting a little tougher with many of the actors who are foreign and who are not as good at wintering when it comes to chains, for example, and who do not have exactly the same procedures, rules and attitudes in terms of road safety and standard on vehicles that Norwegian operators are concerned about. We agree on the width. What's especially important here, is maybe the very thing about holding back the vehicle. I am very pleased that the Storting today gathers about a majority in order to adopt it: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a legal framework allowing the Norwegian authorities to withhold toll-toll vehicles and to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ It may sound a little strange to the Progress Party is concerned about taking those who do not pay tolls, but in this case it is very simple. Unfortunately, it cannot continue as it has been, that several of the foreign actors simply run away from the bill, which leads to a sharp distortion of competition against the Norwegian players, and with which we obviously have to do something. It seems like this is a problem that has been going on for many years without us really being able to do anything about it, and then you have to have strong tools. The most powerful means of operation is simply to restrain the vehicle. If it is implemented, enforced and followed, that we get cleaned up in it, it is a big step in the right direction, both for better competition conditions and for better road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1025	The proposition we are dealing with today represents an adjustment to current provisions on vehicle detention, where this is necessary to ensure payment of penalties imposed for infringements of road traffic legislation. Today, vehicles can only be detained to ensure payment of penalties imposed on the driver, with the exception of in the Nordic countries, where there is an agreement. The amendment allows vehicles to be detained in order to ensure the payment of penalties, including imposed on the owner or person who disposes of the vehicle. In addition, the owner of the vehicle must be held responsible for the payment of the fine or the infringement fee. That piece is very important. This applies to the vehicle and not to the load. The financial costs resulting from the delay in the load can be easily offset by paying what is required, there and then. This is the point – stop the vehicle and pay the fine that is required, there and then, as is being done abroad to a large extent, and as Norwegian drivers are used to living with when driving abroad. This will also happen in Norway. The scale of cabotage operations should be reduced and the new rules contained in the mobility package include: the driver shall return home every four weeks and the vehicle shall return home every eight weeks. Establishments shall pay for the driver’s accommodation when the driver is required to complete a week’s rest outside the vehicle. The rules applicable to mailboxes shall also be tightened. Today’s cabotage rules are tightened by the introduction of a four-day quarantine period for non-resident vehicles used in cabotage operations and their enforcement possibilities are extended. In addition to this, we would like to make a separate proposal to reduce cabotage. The centre party has called for the amendments proposed for several years and wishes to welcome the proposals that are being promoted. They're very good, the suggestions that are being promoted here. That leads to that we're on the right track. But there are still obvious gaps in the law that are not covered by this proposition's proposal. In particular, this measure concerns the liability and liability of the carrier, which the government is also aware of, but which has not been specifically followed up here. That is why we are also promoting proposals on what is going on regarding the disclosure, information and passport obligations, outstanding fees and other defaults. The Committee's recommendation is positive, but still there is a job to do to get into port with this complex issue. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1044	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1049	Finally, I guess we could say, there are some tools that I've been asking for here from the pulpit, I think it has to be in approx. three and a half years. We're talking about 3,000 – 4000 – perhaps 4,500 – foreign car trains on Norwegian roads every day. We have not quite known what they have done, when they have come, when they have traveled again, when they have loaded, when they have unloaded. I'll say that a little bit about afterwards, if I get the time. So it has been that with regard to the debt they may have had, we have sent claims by letter – down to Eastern Europe by letter. We never got a response to these letters. At the same time, there was no way of stopping them, holding them back. I asked for it many times before changing state councils, if you couldn't "clamp" them, stop those who were indebted to us, or those who broke Norwegian law. No, it wasn't possible. Then we referred to other countries in Europe, which actually did this. Germany has been strict about it. But now we're going to get it. I think this is fantastic. And then it's very nice that we get a twist that doesn't right the back for the blacksmith here. That they very often paid drivers would sit with their private credit card and pay, it would have been almost meaningless, and it would have been very unreasonable. So it's the owner who's being held responsible is very good. We have received a mobility package in Europe that also looks pretty good – very good work, especially by the organisations, but also in cooperation with the government. I am very pleased that it was this Western Alliance – we must almost call it – as in some way triumph in those negotiations. It contains quite a lot of good, among other things. in the case of cabotage operations. This also applies to third country driving, which has been a very serious problem. Third country driving has been the second largest market – it has actually not been cabotage – and it is now under better control. What we are now going to demand is the verification of this legislation that will eventually come into place. Checks have to come, otherwise there is no point in having a code in order to be able to hold back, or that we have a good EU legislation to be implemented at the end of the day. I have long wanted – and finally we got a hole in that city – a digital transport register, which the government is going to produce. It is also important that tolls, tolls and tolls are paid. It is completely pointless that after a vehicle combination, a wagon combination has returned without paying any debt. So it's nice that the mass mass now goes in that direction, that we also get it into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1060	I'm happy for the broad connection this proposition gets. It is also a censure that has been out on the ears, where it also has a broad connection. The fact that a vehicle can be held back, ensures payment through fines and a fee for a breach. If this is not possible, we may hold back where the penalties are imposed on the owner and the transport operator. I'm happy about that. That has been a good debate. I don't have that much to add. I would like to comment on point B of the recommendation, which gets multiple numbers today. One is to prepare and submit proposals for the delimitation of international lorry transport in Norway, in line with decisions taken on the treatment of the EU mobility package. We know that the rules on cabotage and market access, running and sleeping time and social conditions for drivers are just part of this work. On 15 July 2020, the EU adopted three acts amending that legislation. We're on it. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has begun to integrate these acts into the EEA Agreement. The need for legislative and regulatory changes has been identified in Norwegian law to implement the new rules. Departments and agencies are now preparing the necessary legislative changes. These will be sent on a general basis, and proposals for changes of promise will, of course, be presented to the Stortinget in the usual way and as quickly as possible. So to the proposal that goes on tolls. That, I would stress, is something more problematic. It's because today we have a system, and that system is such that toll collection from contract customers according to the legislation we have today is a task that has been added to printing companies to issue claims. It is clear that they take over the risk of missing payment from their customers. These printing activities are not authority bodies, and that's why it's going to be a very fundamental issue. Should not authority bodies be able to stop required running? It is at least an important issue that the Storting must be aware of. So we know that the change with the AutoPASS chip being required has proved to be very important. Just because foreign vehicle combinations have that requirement, we also feel that the payment is working. There is such that if a breach of that agreement, we have the possibility to charge the vehicle combination. That's why I'm probably not sure about the effect of the recommendation point B that's lying here, but we want to go inside and look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1071	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1077	In these corona times I drive a lot from Trøndelag to Oslo, and then I drive rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox I have tried to count on the number of non-resident wagon trains. In one hour there may be 120 non-resident car combinations running over there. The last one was two car trains lying in the ditch. It is quite demanding to meet car combinations on our roads. Now we're going to change the law, but that's not enough. The big discussion over the last few years has been whether there are enough checks out there. The working party has set aside 50 million. kr extra for this in our alternative state budget. Can the Council say anything about its considerations on how this can work together, so that we get rid of those who are not roadworthy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1084	I think it's a good question, and it's very important that we get good control of it. I have had several meetings with the control unit in the State Road Administration, which is working very well on this. They have given me a clear overview of the control work they have. I am also concerned that they have said that there are not resources in themselves that are their critical factors, that is to have that job done, but they also think they are doing it in a good way. I think it's important that we get it done. I'm about to visit the control unit not only through digital meetings, as it has been so far, I also want to meet them to see that this work works. Of the reports I have received, I see that this work is done in a good way. As the representative of Leirtrø just pointed out, we have a great deal of activity with foreign vehicle trains. That's why we have to check it out. That activity – we can only look at the recording of the activity – is great, and it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1091	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We have been involved in the matter – that was also the Council of State – the mobility package. International cooperation is incredibly important in order to achieve a more serious transport sector. Then we have special challenges in Norway. Now, the mobility package has been exposed very many times, and in Europe too, the struggle between East and West has been the subject of discussion. The Council of State says that it is now working to integrate this into the EEA Agreement. When can we expect this to be part of Norwegian law? Can the Council of State say anything about when this can be part of Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1100	The representative Nävra also took it up in his post. What I want to say is that it's important that we just get ahead of ourselves in this work. We are now working too fully with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, with which we have many common interests in this particular work. It was adopted on 20 July 2020, so we've been using this cottage to work on it. We really hope to have a bill, a proposal actually seen on the table, that we can send out on the phone if not too much time. I don't have a date here on my feet. It does not come until Christmas, but I hope that this is something that can come during the winter or spring, so that we get it on the phone. Of course, the hearing will be decisive for how fast this will come to the Storting, but it should be so that during 2021 we can have a hearing – and have a decision on this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1107	Norwegian and non-resident carriers shall compete on equal terms. It's not like that today, and a lot of the debate so far has really been about it. It is further reinforced in the current situation, and in particular in the case of international transport — the term ‘international transport and cabotage’. Will the Government and the Government actively work to further limit the number of cabotage operations in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1112	I have registered the proposal from the Center Party. The challenge with that proposal is that it is now a part of the internal market for transport in the EEA, and it would be a breach of the EEA Agreement. In these days we should be aware that it is the EEA Agreement that helps to secure the vaccine, probably in the first half of 2021. There are some challenges in being part of the EEA Agreement, but I believe, when we look at the upswing of the Norwegian people, that a good thing about having a relationship with the EU is that we have a greater cooperation. Then there are some challenges. This means that when these rules apply, Norway cannot make national adjustments. It's not a possibility I see.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1117	Then I will try to turn the problem around, even if it does not deal with exactly the same thing. The state company Bring has chosen to establish itself, among others. in Poland, to drive international transport and cabotage — that is what happens — with foreign drivers, obviously to save money on, among others. wages and salaries. These cars are largely in-house in Norway and the Nordic countries. With reference to what the Council of State said on cabotage operations in general, does the Council of State think this is in line with how state companies in Norway should operate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1122	There is another councillor who is the owner of the Post and their work, and then that councillor will be allowed to comment on it. I think that it is important that we use the space we have within the EEA Agreement to ensure the best possible working conditions. But we also have to stick to the legislation that is there, and if it is such that Norwegian transport companies have a freedom of action, they must be able to benefit from it as others do. There are possibilities for us to make demands and leads about just working conditions, whether they are in aviation, or whether they are in the transport industry. I want to use the space we have to ensure good, decent working conditions, but we also need to respect the fact that Norwegian transport companies use the space for action they have and that the EEA Agreement really gives them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1127	I requested in the post I just had, this with a digital transport register, which has been a great need, and which we here in the room not too long ago got a majority to ask the government to work with. So my question to the government council is simply: how valuable does he think this is, and what is the progress of that government work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1132	Now the representative also said in his post from the pulpit that the government is working on this, and that is quite right. That gives us some possibilities. I also found that the whole state road system is working very well digitally. It is one of the things that has impressed me after I came in as a new state council, to see how the state road authorities use new technology and new possibilities. I also have a expectation about it, but I have nothing more to report than that we are working on it. We've been given a clear assignment from Stortinget to do that. We'll do that, of course, and when we're done, we'll get to the Storting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1137	I thank you for your answer. I do not see that there is any concrete progress, but I will make sure that we at least demand it if it goes too far. The red-green opposition here in the Chamber has a proposal in this case, which is as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide a basis for the inclusion in the Road Traffic Act of provisions of the Public Procurement Act, such as the obligation to provide information to contracting entities, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Can the Council of State comment on it and say what he thinks about that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1150	I can do that. But I would like to comment first that when the government is dealing with a matter, it is progress. So there is nothing in my answer that there is no progress in the matter. I'm just busy being precise when we get back to that matter. So to the general interest. What I want to say there is that they are already in debt to Norwegian and foreign employers operating domestic road transport in Norway. I cannot therefore see the need for a change in road traffic laws. So this is actually done as it is today. Then I want to point out that the State Road Service has an organisational device that is designed to carry out checks along the road. Overseeing the public sector in general is a very comprehensive task that is significantly different from the other tasks of the State Road Service today. But the most important thing is that I can't really see that this will lead to a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1159	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1178	Now I have promised the committee leader Helge Orten that I will not start a big and strong debate, but I think the matter is actually so important that I choose to link a few words to it. We have had a temporary law on ticketing as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. It has worked very well, and this is really just a continuation of it for another year. Since I am the rapporteur on the matter, it is important to point out that the department is working on a permanent change. That works well. I come from a region that has had attempts at a ferry service for AutoPASS, and where payment for passengers was removed, and only paid for a car. It makes it much more efficient and safer, but it also does something about the costs per car. My message to the Council of State is that when that review is carried out, and a proposal for the Stortinget is a permanent scheme, the tariff level of the individual ticket is part of that investigation. We hear from all over Coast Norway that this is a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1187	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1204	Today, we have to deal with changes in the Port and Water Law, which was adopted in June 2019 and launched on 1 January 2020, so changes are being made after a relatively short period of time. The changes relate to experience with the new law and are of a minor nature. The Ministry proposes ‘reintroducing access to carry out simplified navigational inspections at sea’. Experience in the summer of 2020 shows the need for this. As we all know, the traffic on the sea increased this coronary summer we have behind us. The next item is the preparation of the basis for state supervision of the collection of the water tax by municipalities. The last one is that the department will be allowed to lay down rules on the removal of debris. I come from a fishing community where I know that sometimes there is a need for wreckage and that the problem associated with it is quite difficult and demanding for the municipalities and ports that have it. The Committee has no comments on these amendments and recommends them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1219	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1236	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1243	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. There is a joint committee behind the vote. This road serves both as a local road and as a main road link between the region and Gardermoen, the Oslofjord area and beyond to Europe. The project involves the development of Rv. 4 from the municipal border between Gran and Lunner to Jaren is passed south from today's connection at the municipal border to Roa. Rehabilitation of the route northwards will provide approximately 26 km by new/repaired road, of which 4.1 km will provide a four-field road with a mid-rail and a speed limit of 100 km/h. Together with the extension of the Lunner border-Jaren route, the construction of a four-field route from Roa to Jaren is now 13.5 km in length. The route is for pedestrian and cycle routes, and the route Jaren-Amundrud covers the improvement and extension of approximately 3,8 km of existing road. The road width will be 14,25 metres with pass-by fields and mid-drawing works. The speed limit is 80 km/h. The General Delete to Lying Hill section covers the repair and extension of approximately 5 km of existing road. The new road width is 8.5 meters, and the speed limit is 80 km/h. Bridges shall be built for crossing existing rv. 4 over the river Vigga. Furthermore, a planar crossing of E16 at Roa shall be built. The development is provided for financed by State resources, representing approximately 34 p.m. and tolls with a collection period of 15 years. Upland counties provide a guarantee for the toll loan, and the toll scheme has been dealt with politically in the municipalities concerned. It is added to plant start in the spring of 2021. The project is expected to be completed by 2024. There are regulatory plans adopted for the development and external quality assurance for the development has been implemented. The governance framework is set at $1,980 billion. NOK, with a cost framework of SEK 2,180 billion. kr. The distance rv. 4 Roa-Gran boundary is part of the project rv. 4 Roa – Lying stage 2, consisting of the distance rv. 4 Years – Amundrud and to Lygna. So far, about 250 million have been used. kr on stage 2. These are costs of land acquisition, preparatory work, such as conversion of wires and cables, design and construction organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1268	This case is extremely long-term, and there has been a bit of a look in the media about the road project that we are about to deal with. For example, it has been said that ‘here the highway stops in the middle of an earth one hour north of Oslo’, or ‘before the workers stuck, they were able to set up a toll station. To a great extent irritation to the local population, who do not need the motorway dome in the middle of an earth’. So it's a lengthy story that finally gets its solution. In the Committee's comments, the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party point out that many residents in the vicinity of toll stations are subject to an unreasonable burden and pay a proportionate amount of toll compared to their actual use of the road. We therefore believe that remedial measures should be introduced for the local population in such cases. We should be able to get a much fairer system where you pay by the number of kilometers of road. This room is probably not unknown that we have suggested road pricing, and the whole purpose is that we get a greater justice in the toll burden, especially when there is a local road that is used to get to and from school, leisure activities and such. We point out that the Stortinget has actually asked the government to promote a case in which the state assumes the guarantee liability for toll loans on its own roads, both for current and future projects. In fact, the Government Declaration of the Pre-Progress Party went out of government, agreed on a division between state and state of fifty-fifty. The level of guarantee burden imposed on large road projects by county councils is now so high that both the interest conditions they receive and the possibility of taking up loans on their own roads. We're glad to see you. 4 now becomes a priority. This project builds both west and east and north and south much better together, but it also has an impact on local traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1279	This is a matter where there is broad consensus, for today's rv. 4 does not have a satisfactory curve or visibility. There are many different widths, there are different speeds, and the ÅDT that vary from 11,800 at Roa to 5,400 vehicle at Lygna. The proportion of heavy-duty vehicles has been around 11 pst. After toll collection on the line Lunner border – Jaren and Lygna south started in July 2017, ÅDT is through the bomb section at Lunner boundary 8 510, and the heavy car share is 8 pst. There's actually been a discussion about what was mentioned here by the representative Leirtrø, about the load from new toll stations, and it's real. On the other hand, two of the toll stations standing there are set up in 2017. So they have been involved in financing the distance that is already open, and there was no special discussion at the time about whether to look at the load for those who got the road, I think – I think they were very happy to get the road. Now a new toll station comes, but it comes somewhere else and does not affect those who have already received these toll stations, so that there is a relatively small extra load. There is some price increase, because two projects are now to be merged into one. Another thing that I think can be a problem is that you actually have toll stations sideways here. One of the toll stations is on old rv. 4th@item: inlistbox It's been there since 2017, and that's something we can essentially think of. At the same time, these roads run so parallel that it seems to make sense to have a toll station also on the side road in this case. The last thing I intend to say is that which is also mentioned earlier, about warranty. This path goes according to the old guarantee scheme, and the guarantee for the road project has been provided in 2017. As was said here, the decision taken in Stortinget during the throne debate is a request decision. Then I expect that the Council of State may be able to explain the progress that this matter has. Here, in many ways, there are two things running parallel to each other. One is that part of it, and the other is what the Workers' Party mentions, this with road pricing. It is also a matter to be investigated and running. But in this case, the most important thing is to get the project started. It's a very long-awaited project that is involved in doing Rv. 4 even better, but there are still sections that require new road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1294	As many people have pointed out before me today, this is a matter of pleasure. It is a road that the local population in particular have been waiting for a long time. Of course, the few say no to getting a new way, most want it, it makes sense, but this is a pleasure with a bismach, I'll allow myself to remind the assembly about it. Here's a big bismach, because the project we're now adopting is a typical old-fashioned way of building a road. That's the typical way that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV unfortunately love to build roads. They build piece by piece and piece, they build completely, they build a little bit of two fields, they build a little bit of two and three fields, and they build a little bit of four fields. Fortunately, that's not the way today's government wants to build a road. Fortunately, this is not the way the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party together have built the country. We're building continuous and completely, we're building the four-field highway at a speed limit of 110 km/h. We're moving in traffic, and not a patchwork like what we're now adopting here today. But the Progress Party will vote in favour. The project is longed for locally, as we talked about. Of course, it's a wish, but we're in favour of a big bismach, because it's 2.2 billion. kr which is currently in use and SEK 1,3 billion. kr of the costs to be borne by the drivers. The solution The working party sketches, is not a solution: just to trick and call it something else, and then start introducing taximeters in all cars. I know that the Workers' Party is very happy with taximeters, based on the debate we've had about taxis earlier today, but that they're going to start forcing everyone to introduce taximeters into their own car to pay tolls for every kilometer they drive, I'm strongly opposed. Then it is much better that the representative Igstad was inside instead. He mentioned that, for example: stands a bomb on a side road that would never stand there, but it remains there pending the construction of a new road. I hope that we can also bring with us the Right, Left and Christian People's Party when the way opens, and that we can then remove that bomb on the side road, because then there is absolutely no need for it, even for those who think it should stand there. As far as further progress is concerned, it is important to remind the assembly that the Progress Party is a little skeptical. That's because we know that all the municipalities really, primarily, want a normal four-field highway, as today's government usually builds, along with the Progress Party. They want four fields from Oslo to Biri, they want 110 km/h all the way, they don't want a little bit 80 and a little bit 110, which it's now going to be on the road to be built. Of the project now being built, it is actually only the last four kilometres to the south, at Roa, which is needed in a future perspective, which is needed in a longer perspective, when we are to build a real four-field from Oslo to Biri – as the rapporteurs wish, as the Stor-Oslo Nord wants, as the Latterbileier Association wants, and so fortunately both the State Road Administration and New Veier want. I look forward to the next debate that will follow, when we're going to build a real four-field all the way, right up to Biri. Finally, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1309	Then the representative Tor André Johnsen mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1314	I welcome the majority of the Committee and would like to thank the Committee for the work it has done. I am also pleased that the setting for the development of Rv. 4 is in line with the proposal put forward by the Government. I thought the case spokesperson Constanteraune presented this case so well that I have nothing to add to it. I believe the word extension is something that describes this matter, not least locally. I would like to comment on something that will be included in the configuration from the Committee. The toll scheme is in line with the current tariff and discount structure and decisions taken by the county council and the municipalities in question, including the extension of a side-by-side bomb. The bombing station on fv. 2300 will be considered as a prerequisite for the realisation of the project. If the toll station is not continued, a traffic refusal of about 70 pst is expected. In addition to weakening the economy of the project, traffic rejection will lead to a reduction in road safety. Alternative measures to limit traffic denial have been considered to have limited power. The range from the toll station, e.g. In the period 2008–2018, 2300 and through the Gran Centre and its immediate behalf had a total of 29 road accidents involving personal injury. In these accidents, four people were seriously injured and 34 people were more likely to be injured. Road 2,300 now serves as a local road, with many walking and cycling. If a large part of the traffic is returned on the old road network, it is likely that the accident frequency will correspond to what he was before the development. The level of interest, referred to in the proposition, is in line with the interest rate calculated. It's only when the toll loan is taken up, that one knows the actual interest rate. So until what was also taken up by the representative Igstad, attached to the guarantee scheme: We work with the guarantee liability. A clear decision has been made in Stortinget. My plan is to put forward a bill in the state budget for 2022 that is in line with the leadership that Stortinget gave. But there's a lot of work to do with this, and for me, it's important that we don't delay work, for example. on this type of extension project. I do not think that was the intention or intention of the bulk of the money when they asked us to work out a state guarantee liability.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1329	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1334	Now I may be a little overarched in this matter, but the Progress Party has its own proposal that this should be built without tolls. The toll debate we've had many times in Stortinget, and we'll probably get it back. We are in front of the work on the national transport plan, where tolling is also likely to be an important part. In 2013, there were 170 toll stations in Norway. In 2019 there are 334 toll stations. The residual debt is at 284 billion. kr. It has to be removed before you start building a new road, if you're against tolls. How much did the Progress Party have to spend on next year's government budget to realize Rv. The 4 project now under consideration here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1344	We expect to start in the spring of 2021. The major costs of this project will not be incurred until 2022, 2023 and in the end year, 2024. But if a well to have the fight against tolls as its most important battle, get a built smaller infrastructure. We have to be honest with that. I found it natural that even those who use the roads are involved in paying for them. I think we all got a warning that we shouldn't let the tolls get too high. We must have legitimacy behind it, and I believe that the uprising we experienced, among other things. in the north of the Jären, and so far also in the mountains, we ought to learn from it. For me, it is more important to get the infrastructure in place to get a name and transport solution that binds the country together. It's more important to me than delimiting the tolls. But the challenge is that the tolls have to be at a level that makes them legitimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1353	In terms of road costs and tolls, there is an eternity discussion, most likely. But there's something you can do with pretty fast. In the case of a request decision taken in Stortinget, Decision 2 for 2020-2021: «The government is asking the Government to bring proceedings against the Stortinget, where the State assumes responsibility for the guarantee of national toll loans, both on current and future projects.» The Contracting Party expects the decision on State guarantee liability for toll loans to be implemented and assumes that the decision on State toll guarantee will be retroactive and will also apply to that project. How does the Council of State address itself to the request decision, and when can we expect this to be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1365	This is an important decision and a major matter. We're doing a great job. With such large amounts and obligations as will be mentioned here, it naturally involves several departments. I have proposed that we answer this and give the Storting a solution in the budget for 2022. It's because it's a huge job. With a State guarantee – which is clearly requested in the decision – it is important for me that there is also a local and regional anchoring of the projects. The county guarantees have a connection so far. So I'm too full to follow up the decision to grow up, but I want to make sure that there is a regional and local anchoring also for the toll project in the future, so that it's not a government payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1372	I thank you for your answer. Over to something a little bit different, but something that's also about looking forward in time: Rv. 4, the route Roa–Gran border, including the year, has been a road development that has gone over a few stages. You call it stage 1 and stage 2. You might be talking about stage three, which is a new rv. 4 from Biri to Oslo, which the Inland has as its highest priority input into the work of the National Transport Plan. The Council of State sees some leadership that this project can provide for further work on Rv. Four against Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1381	That's a good question. It's not just the interior that thought this was an attractive stretch. It seemed to be both the State Road Service and New Vegar. They have, in so far as they have their concept, attached to it. We see that this is an important distance. If we ask the Raufoss industry, we know how important this is. This helps to provide export-industrial jobs, which are very important, and there is a lot of traffic there today. I thought there was an exciting concept from both the State Road Administration and New Roads here. This is a question of course that we answer in connection with the national transport plan, but we are well aware of those plans. I do not have a clearer message today than to say that it is in the national transport plan that we are presenting the further progress of this project. But we know, of course, that there are many projects, and we also need to make important priorities in the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1388	This is a road project supported by SV. All projects in which the Council of State makes proposals in which it intends to build far and safe, not wide and expensive, shall receive the support of the SV. It's clear that we've put in a four-field parcel note, which we're having a little bit of trouble with, but it's now that when the proposition comes to the Stortinget, it's kind of finished fabric. We've said what we mean locally, and when it comes here, it's about «take it or leave it» – this is the system. But what disappointed me a little bit was something I saw on the website government. It was the signals that came from the Hareide Council on two- and three-field roads in relation to four-field roads, narrow four-field roads. There is this example to a great extent. Have not the Council of State entered into, dared to enter into, or wanted to enter into, the discussion of how much speed means for the models of socio-economic benefit, for example. walking from 90 km/h to 110 km/h?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1397	What the government has done today, when we look at road normals, is to have flexibility. I also think it might be good to have that flexibility. It is our professionals in the Road Directorate who have made a recommendation – a recommendation that I fully follow. I don't make my own assessments of what should be road normal, I follow the professionals in the Road Directorate when it comes to it. So that gives us more flexibility. This means that there will be two and three-field roads that are normal, but one can have flexibility. What reasons could there be for that? Well, if, for example, has a four-field path, gets a shorter two- and three-field path, and then gets a new four-field path. Then you get a different road normal at quite a short distance. Then there is a possibility, for example, of a narrow four-field path there. And then it's also that one gets the possibility to get along with narrow four-field paths. The kind of new road width that New Roads have used a little, now also allows the Road Directorate to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1402	I thank you for your answer. Now we're dealing with something interesting, and then we come up with an aspect that goes into what's in the socio-economic analyses, those models. I had sincerely hoped that the relatively new council had dared to go into those model calculations and have been a little – what to say – damn lawyer to their offices at just that with how much speed means in those models. We still know that speed kills, we still know that we use a lot more energy to go from 90 km/h to 110 km/h. The parcels also have to be much better when you're driving at 110 km/h, so you take a lot more space. With regard to these issues of environmental impact, emissions and this with the use of energy – whether we have fossil cars or electric cars, there will be a struggle for energy, and it will increase violently from 90 to 110 – is it not important for a council to bring such aspects and ask some critical questions to the agencies about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1411	Well, so absolutely, but in this context, it's the road normals themselves, and then different road normals will have a meaning for what speed you're good at. What I mean is a natural consequence. But I also think in a way that having common, equal development has meaning, and I think that a patchwork of different road normals is also not good. Now you get a really normal road that has more flexibility. But that means that, for example, from 6,000 to 12,000, two and three-field roads will lie as the natural guide – if there are not very special reasons for it. And then also makes it possible to build a little bit narrower quadrangular paths. I think we should be honest about the fact that the narrower four-field roads have had very good numbers when it comes to traffic safety, and we see that precisely this flexibility allows you to build it yourself with a slightly lower number. So this has been a wish from the State Road Administration. It's New Roads that have developed some of the narrower four-field roads, and there's also good experience with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1418	I thank you for your answer. This will be a more and more exciting debate. Now I am talking about incredibly important decisions that the Committee must take in the future, with assessments of both land use, energy use and emissions. These are absolutely crucial considerations, and I had met that the Council of State went into those modelling calculations. I understand what the Council of State says, and I understand that there may be a need for flexibility, but it's now such that very often declared truths from the etas are a little inheritance, and then there's a bit of tough government council to be able to ask a little critical questions about it. I have seen that in several countries, the ÅDT has a total of 17 000 to 18 000 on two- and three-field roads, and so now you lefle with about 8 000 as a limit for a four-field road. It is clear that this is something New Roads have come along to sell the four-field road map. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1427	I would like to say that the socio-economic models are not what we have decided on in this case. What I think is really something we should go into, because there is a lot of substance in the socio-economic models. But now it's just the technical things on the road standard side. For example, at ÅDT 8 000 it is very likely that there will be two and three-field roads that will be built in Norway, if there are not very special reasons for it – expect traffic to increase in a very short time, or that there are pairs of narrow quadruple roads that are right in the vicinity. So this is the technical guidance on what road construction, what road standards we're going to have, not the socio-economic models. But it's related, because the socio-economic models will point to the results of them, which we're actually going to build. That's absolutely something we're looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1433	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1440	When I got into the municipal council in Gran in 1983, the work was to repair Rv. 4 already high on the political agenda. AL Upland Road was a concept that all politicians should learn in order to achieve a holistic development of Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox In 2013, 30 years later, the first allocation was given to expand the first stage, between Jaren and Roa. Many have asked me, especially because I was rapporteur in the period we planned this way: why do you have to build a four-field road on the ground, in the countryside of Hadeland? There was no demand from the political life of neither Gran nor Lunner for a four-field road. It was the state's road system's road standards set up against the annual traffic that was, and was expected, which meant that we ended up with a four-field road. There is still a lot of transit traffic on the road, and there was a lot of transit traffic on the road then. There was a road that had 60 zones, 50 zones and 40 zones, and there were three times as many accidents on that road as on comparable roads. That was the argument that we needed a new way. It came into place, fortunately, at the beginning of 2013, and now, 37 years later, the last stage, almost at any rate, is fully funded. That's good, because we had to get rid of the accidents. It is good that it will come into place now, after the road has ended in a rock smog on an earth, where 28 families had to move already in 2017–2018 because there was to be a new road. It's been quiet for quite a few years, so I'm glad you're getting on the road now. But it's important not to stop this. Riksvei 4 is an important route between Lillehammer, Gudbrandsdalen and Oslo. It's the shortest road in kilometers, so there should still be work to put in place a complete development of RV. 4th@item: inlistbox It's the route north of what we're talking about here, and it's not least the route towards Oslo, which has become a new bottleneck through Nittedal and into Oslo. I know that way, because I've been commuting there for years. There were great expectations when representatives from the Progress Party were in Gran and told them that bombing routes could be removed on the side roads. It was with a little wonder I read it, because even with a new road, the side road would be quite attractive to drive if you were to avoid paying the toll bill. But we record that it was in good words – there has been no prioritisation of removing the bombing routes on Rv. 4 in the negotiations between the Government and the Advance Party. So there was so far no solution, as many thought when you went out so strongly to remove the boom on the side way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1455	I am the rapporteur on the matter, and I am also a representative from Uppland. There is no doubt that this is a very long-term project, as several have said. There is a project that has been lying there and – in the correct sense of the word – waiting to be triggered. So when we decide what we're doing, hopefully during today's day, I think there's a lot of people going to be satisfied. However, I would like to point out what I so far had to do with the line change: a continuous expansion, and then like to use the new road standards, in relation to the ÅDT, I will not take a stand here and now, but there is no doubt that the longest north, from Biri and in towards Gjøvik, and of course the longest south, towards Oslo, must do something. It is very important, and now that stage 2 has been launched on this project, I believe that it is also important for the NTP work to be done. I commented on this with state guarantees and county guarantees in the reply. It is very important, and it is more important than you think, because many of the county councils are starting to get as many guarantees as they have signed that it can go beyond the services they are going to have for the other inhabitants of their county. So we also have to do something about that. There is an overall committee which is in favour of this matter, because it is an extension of the road. The representative Kirsti Leirtrø himself was involved in this: how much does it cost to say no tolls when you have started as many transportation projects as this government has done? It's basically the exact same thing that's happening now; it's a proposal that says this is going to be government-funded. Now it may well be, as the Council of State said, not necessarily in next year's budget it's being charged, but it's done similar in one case before, which costs even more, and it's E18 towards Asker and Bærum, where also the Progress Party, although they didn't fully agree with that project, said it should be publicly funded. What happens is that they argue for state funding, they propose the same, but they agree to cancel tolls, and they argue for expensive solutions and do not put more money into the budget. That's the conclusion, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1466	The representative Bengt Fasterale has presented the central party's position in this matter in an excellent way, so I don't have to add anything there. But the representative Johnsen unfortunately said something that made me draw in this debate. The representative says that the government is building a continuous road, not a piece and a split road. The representative from the Progress Party said that all municipalities wanted the four-field motorway. No, the municipality of Saltdal wants to complete 22 kilometres on the E6, the route Sorelva-Borkemo, a bottleneck between two roads that the government should have built at the same time as a new tunnel on Rv. 77 was built. Grane Municipality wants to complete the E6 Helgeland South, including the two Parcels farthest south towards the Throne Borders of just under 10 kilometers, taken out of the project by the Minister of Transport of the Progress Party. The municipalities south of Hamarøy want a new road that makes all the dangerous tunnels on the E6 north of Fauske redundant. They do not mention the four-field motorway. So it's not true that all municipalities want the four-field highway. I would like to remind the representative Johnsen that when the transport committee visited Nordland, he did not speak for four fields and 110 km/h once. The road sections that I have just taken up are important national sections of the main roadway through the country, E6, and after listening to the representative Johnsen in this matter, I understand that the Progress Party is not a party for the whole country. This is an article intended for reflection. I don't need an answer, and I can be the last speaker in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1477	The President would say that we are discussing the route Roa-Gran today, not road sections in Northern Ireland, so we have to try to stick a little bit to the issue here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1482	Thank you for an important clarification. All municipalities along Rv. 4-traseen – Nittedal, Lunner, Gran, Vestre Toten, Gjøvik – all the municipalities that have rv. 4 through it, wants 4 fields rv. 4th@item: inlistbox It's okay just to clarify it. I also had a challenge about this with bombs and tolls. I guess it was Aasrud from the Workers' Party who talked a little bit about it. I don't know if I'm going to take responsibility on my own because it took some time before that proposition came to treatment in Stortinget, but we in the Progress Party were at least very clear when we were in government, at that roads, like Rv. 4 in the proposition we're now adopting is going to be treated without a bomb on the side roads. It is possible and it could have been possible, and it was our intention. Then one had to do a little recalculation, which was part of the summer 2019 toll agreement, when one would look at the toll financing on new motorways. It is then a logic that would allow it to take a little longer, but then one would get a proposition without a bomb on the side roads. Unfortunately, we have not received that today. The Progress Party has its own proposal where we do not want to finance the bomb, but if you look at page 7 of the proposal, if I add the credit, I can understand that the Labour Party, the Government, the Centre Party, the SV and the other parties in this Chamber want to block this project. For as it is now, there is a roundabout where the new road starts and the old road stops, and right after the roundabout it is a bomb if one continues on the old road. But when the new road is opened, it goes at least 5 miles south, and then there are the few that bother to drive long turns over miles to save a few dollars. I thought it was interesting to listen to the representative Igstad. As I perceived the wording – perhaps I interpret it a little too positively; I hope not – I actually perceived the representative I used to be a bit helpful to look at the possibility of getting something done with that bomb on the side road when the new road opens. I hope the Minister will also look at that challenge, so that we can get back to that matter. Because when one gets 100 km/h, maybe 110 km/h, on the new road, and one has 60 km/h and 70 km/h and pretty bad standard on the old road, it's the few that want to drive long rounds to save a few dollars in tolls, and then we can remove the boom on the old road. At least that is our goal in the Progress Party. That goal is still firm, and I hope we can bring more people into the hall, at least the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1495	I think basically the representative Johnsen is going to add the kindness to more often. It could be pretty good. I think this is a happy day. Rv. 4 is an important tribal road that on large parts has too poor a standard. The Hadeland, Toten and Gjøvik areas are strongly linked to Rome and Oslo, and thus are Rv. 4 a very important link for the whole region, for the whole of Western Oppland. It has been working for a long time to improve the road, and with what is now adopted, there will be a new road between Roa and Lygna. Two parcels are built, as we've heard from several speakers, and now three new ones are adopted, so that we get a new way on the whole route, that is between Roa and Lygna. I don't think we should be sub-communicating it. It's very good, and as I said – this is a happy day. But it's taken too long. In 2018, the necessary decisions were taken in the relevant municipalities and in the county municipality. A whole branch got their houses triggered and had to move, and I've been there visiting with Rigmor Aasrud. So the question is, why have the Ministers of Transport of the Progress Party been so guilty about this matter? It has been literally a year and a day in the department. That's what the speakers of the Progress Party should be reasoning a little bit about today, and maybe think a little bit about before someone puts outside the jumping edge. But who would count the lost battles on the winner's day? I also agree with Rigmor Aasrud. Now we have to look forward. Now we have to move on. There is a great need for better roads north of Lyga and south on Rv. 4, and rv. 4 through Nittedal, e.g., from Gülleråsen and northwards, has a heavy traffic load. Part of the day is the big queue problem, and unfortunately it's too many accidents. The Minister of Transport can get a tip from me, and that is that in the national transport plan, as if not for too long to be treated, he is re-entering the Hagan tunnel on Rv. 4 in Nittedal. That could be a good start. The new tunnel was part of the national transport plan in 2013, but the Progress Party took it out of the national transport plan in 2017. It should be built. One should start further development of both the Hagan tunnel and other sections on Rv. 4, so that we can get better access to a very important domestic link.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1508	The representative Tor André Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1513	I just have to allow myself to comment a little bit about the claims, or the accusations, from the representative Myrli that the Progress Party spends a long time getting cases through the system and dealing with the Stortinget. Then I just want to remind Stortinget that when E6 was to be built, for example. through the Inland and Hedmark, which we have done now, thanks to today's government and the Progress Party, the regulatory plans were about to go out on date. That is, they could be over ten years old. Then we're talking about training. Then we talk about things taking a long time before they get to Stortinget. Just choosing a travesty for E6 through Akersvika by Hamar used the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV four and a half years to make a decision on a travesty. So to criticize us for that rv. The 4th proposition has taken a long time, is quite special.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1520	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1537	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1544	In this case, where we are going to deal with a number of proposals from various representatives of the Progress Party, there is a great deal that can be agreed in the first place. A total of nine proposals are both practical and economic in nature. These include charges to the State in the form of a change in the one-off charge, the national regulation on ferries and a few amendments to the AutoPASS regulation on ferry tariffs. These amendments concern not only the State but also the counties and even individual municipalities. Some other proposals concern changes to the driving licence rules and approval of a rule applicable in Denmark. Other proposals concern technical proposals such as: variations arising on type-approval and increase in total weight. The Council of State has informed the Committee that it is not negative to changes to the system of mobile homes, and that this work is ongoing, which several of the lots join, inter alia. The working party. However, some of the proposals cannot be implemented without breaching international rules. A good example is the proposal to extend category B driving licences from 3,5 tonnes to 4,25 tonnes. This is something the motor vehicle industry and the motorists, including the undersigned, have been busy for many years, but the standard response has been that this violates the EU driving licence directive. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that the European Commission has launched an evaluation of this Directive, but that both scope and timeline are uncertain. The right way to deal with this must therefore be to follow closely what is happening in this evaluation of the Driving Licence Directive. With regard to the Labour Party's position on these issues, we are part of the majority who are positive in assessing the framework conditions for mobile homes in Norway. We assume that the Department proposes simplifications that will be carried out when it comes to it, and that it will be well organised for residential tourism through, among other things. a number of roadside emptying systems, usually combined with well-positioned residential car parks or so-called car-stations. I, the undersigned, am not afraid that the housing industry and stakeholder organisations will ensure that we politicians are made aware of the challenges that their members are facing. I myself have experience with this. This, of course, is important for us politicians to listen to and to take care to treat in a serious and balanced way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1555	There are more and more people who buy a mobile home, who choose it for travel and holiday purposes, and it is great. It's a nice way for many to go on holiday, not least in their own country. We agree with the proposers that we must constantly look for simplifications and contribute to a simpler everyday life for people. In the context of the review of the revised national budget 2020, the proposal for a request was adopted by 785. This means that the government is already assessing the problem that the number of seating positions cannot exceed the number of bed places. It seems to me that an illogical regulation with which it should absolutely be possible to do something. The Government has announced that it will come back with a proposal for amendments at the latest in the revised national budget 2021. In addition, a decision was taken in budgetary negotiations on Thursday last week to review the legislation with a view to automatic approval of European type-approval vehicles in Norway. It also seems to be a sensible measure that should be assessed, while also allowing some capacity to be released at the traffic stations. A Joint Committee has agreed to the proposal to put in place several waste water disposal facilities. It was also the case-rapporteur. The government has already asked the State Road Service to develop a strategy for the construction of rest areas, where these types of facilities will be part of the concept. In the case of ferry tariffs, I also refer to the case we dealt with on Friday last week, where we asked the government to consider a reduction in the advance amounts in the AutoPASS system, and then not only for passenger cars, but also for other tariff groups, such as. for mobile homes. I would like to thank the proposers for a good initiative, and then I look forward to further work on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1570	As one of the proposers, I would like to thank the Committee for at least dealing fairly well with the matter, despite the fact that it is of course disappointing that there is a tendency to see problems and challenges instead of looking at the solutions. I am nevertheless pleased that it triggers a discussion, and that there are at least several things coming back to Stortinget. I just want to mention that proposal No. 2 was already recorded during Thursday's meeting, so it is not promoted here today. It's a part that seems a little strange in terms of a mobile home. It is quite right that there have been very many mobile homes sold, because this is a holiday form that the Norwegian people in all walks of life have chosen more and more. So to be able to make it easier and fairer, we're too. A mobile home is also not something you drive a lot of miles with in a year, so when you problemise the costs of the ferries and the incomes and are more focused on it than putting it right, I put a question mark on it. As far as I am aware, it is such that you can drive a passenger car with a trailer to the cabin and pay a passenger car tax. You can drive a passenger car with a caravan, which is a car train, and pay a passenger car fare, precisely because the Progress Party made it possible for it to be a leisure drive, and it was not that many kilometers in a year. So that's the way it is with a trailer, but I welcome this back on a later occasion. Besides, it's also been a strange form, so I'm glad that the majority that's now behind it, today's government party and the Progress Party, form a majority and can clean this up with beds and seats. It is strange if a family of children travels to a camper and trailer dealer and finds a mobile home with seats and seat belts for maybe five people, and then you are referred to because it may only have beds for three people. It was a rule that was introduced under the red-green government, because then you were afraid that someone would use that car for a completely different type of driving, and not use it for what it was meant to. It seems illogical that the state should interfere in how to sleep in that van. When you see a mobile home traveling on the roads, you don't think this is something you spend the year around and in the cities – across the street. As I said, I am pleased that this will at least come back to Stortinget, and that one might also clean it up with single approval and type-approval. So you have to show that car physically every time at the traffic station, is a bureaucracy, and you spend a lot of time. It was also seen during the covid-19 outbreak, that it was not registered, and that the money was not received when you sold the car, because it had to be displayed physically every time. This is probably a simplification that I welcome back to Stortinget. Then I take up the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals we are promoting together with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1585	The representative of Morten Stordalen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1590	The Council of State statement that he is positive in assessing the framework conditions for this type of vehicle is very good, because it can feel a little half-caotic, maybe almost at the limit of helical, sometimes. We in the Centre Party are concerned that it is well organised for residential tourism, and that there is sufficient drainage facilities along the roads. We see that the State Road Service has developed a strategy on this, which is very good, and we see that it becomes a higher standard. We warmly welcome all of this. At the same time, a request decision relating to the revised national budget in 2020, on which several have been concerned, states: ‘The size requires the government to present changes to legislation on motor caravans which allows the number of seating positions to exceed the number of berths. The other criteria shall be adjusted as necessary.’;» It must be one of the things that I think it is very important to be able to find a solution, and perhaps where you have a lack of understanding of a rigid code. What's important is that you don't necessarily have to change the charging. It can in principle be maintained the way it is, but it is therefore important to clear up in unclear legislation. For the consumer it seems almost incomprehensible that it is not allowed to sit in original fixed seats with seat belts from the car manufacturer when the car comes to Norway – this is only because, according to Norwegian regulations, it is assumed that there must be as many bed places as there are seats in the van. The centre party points out that the government of Solberg's sub-financing of counties with great responsibility for boat and ferry services has pushed the economy in relation to the boat and ferry services quite significantly in some counties. We had a long debate on that last week. The State appropriations for the county have not been in proportion to the costs incurred by boat and ferry companies in the years since 2013. This has led to unreasonable prices for ferries and boats, and we fear that if the ferry prices are set down for cars, the bill must be taken by the residents who use a car and who depend daily on ferries to get to work, school and leisure activities. Many people are already paying too much for ferry tickets today, and I cannot support proposals that will increase them further. Today's government, together with the Progress Party, has made the economic situation of the ferries difficult, and it doesn't seem that they have any desire to change it in the future. In addition, I would like to support the proposals that have been made, where we are part of what concerns a one-off fee, type-approval, total weight and driving licence category B.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1614	I think it has been said very well about this proposal in Stortinget. The fact that we contribute to simplification, that we do something about the framework conditions, and that we make it more attractive to be able to use cars, is something I feel that there are many people who support them. And so, as I've already signaled in the letter, we're working on this. An example of that is that when we work with the rest area strategy, we also think about cars into it. Then I want to be honest that there are also some challenges, for example, for heavy transport, that have their places. There's not necessarily a good combination here, because it's often a challenge for heavy transport to have that kind of restrooms and parking spaces. I would like to comment on some of these suggestions. The first proposal actually falls under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. But I want to say that in connection with RNB 2020 – and then I'm thinking about proposal No. 1 – asked the Stortinget government to come back to proposals for changes to the rules that open up so that the number of seats could exceed the number of camper sites. As part of the follow-up to the call for proposals, the Ministry of Finance has asked the Directorate of Taxation to review the technical definition of motor caravans, including the question of whether the definition of motor caravans can be closely linked to the running technical code. I thought we should wait until we conclude. Then to some of the parts that go into the ferry fare code. We made a decision there to see this in a sanity. What I experience as an intention here is the possibility of looking at a non-discrimination between, for example, cars with caravans and buses. So for changes when it comes to getting M1 group into prepayment class 1: making changes there is probably technically possible, but it would also have a cost that we so far haven't found room for. So to look at the type-approval, I'm in favour of the idea of continuing to work on it, precisely because the sellers of buses are going to let go, for example, of bringing all their vehicles to the traffic stations. It would be a remedy. But I would like to say that just that type of approval is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1641	I can see that the Council of State is very busy with mobile homes. It sounds like he's getting a lot of recordings, and so do I. I want to ask a question, which I will ask on the basis that I have received some feedback from my mobile home friends from my time as a homeowner. In the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, reference is made to proposal No. 7, on the emptying of caravans and caravans. There, the Council of State refers to the State Road Service’s strategy for the construction of rest areas. As this is written, my roommates say, it can be interpreted as that the State Road Service will facilitate the emptying of nearly all the rest areas that are being built in the future. This is very positive in case. Can the Council of State say anything about this leading to correctness, and whether the State Road Administration is doing this in line with such an understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1648	I thank you for the question. I want to say, at least, that we want to have a greater expansion of this supply. But I also mentioned in my post that, for example, we are advised to combine this with daily rest places for heavy transport. I feel that this is a good professional advice, also because heavy transport actually takes precedence. It's important goods that we need. So combining it with daily rest places is something we've been advised to do, and that call is going to follow. But when we come up with our rest area strategy, it should be a greater expansion of this supply. We see there is a deficiency today. I feel that the motor vehicle people want to be environmentally friendly in a proper way, and then we have to fix it. In these corona times, it is one of the most effective holiday offers and safest during 2020. I feel that there are many good intentions in the proposals that are here, and I want to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1657	Thanks for the answer. As I mentioned from the pulpit, I have been concerned with the conditions of the bobilists for several years, although, as I said, I am without a mobile home now. But one of the proposals is to extend driving licences to be able to drive a car up to 4.25 tonnes with a normal certificate. Many of the cars that are now registered as so-called light cars are actually cars that are registered down by weight from larger weight classes, so they have not changed very much before the downtime registration. The evaluation in the European Union, to which the Council of State refers, on these driving licence rules, has referred us to mobile homes even before I became a bigotry policy. I wonder if the Council of State can say something more concrete about what this evaluation is, or anything at all, about the time aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1664	I would like to say that the representative Langholm Hansen in his first post responded to some of the issues here. It violates EU legislation. And then we know that there will be work on it now also within the EU. So it's always hard for us to say something about the time perspective there. We're not on the inside and we're following the work. We have also repeatedly referred to this issue as trying to clarify with the EU Commission the space for action here. I don't have any clearer answers to that right now. The proposals on the table are contrary to EEA legislation in this area, and I do not have real room for action to meet it, although I am also aware of some of the challenges that many people experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1671	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1678	I very much appreciate the fact that the government is positive – it says ‘assess’ here, I really thought I read errors and that it would say ‘change’ – at least to assess the framework conditions for cars. Then I want to hope, perceive and interpret it again as changing the rules, not just evaluating them, because it is very much illogical that applies today in the housing code. Fortunately, representatives of all parties have pointed out this. I have to say that it is not always I agree more with the Labour Party than with the EU, but in this case, when it comes to the weight of cars and what kind of cars you can drive with which driving licence, I am more credited to the Workers' Party than I am to the EU. It makes no sense, to put it in a little unparliamentary words, that many of the cars sold and used today are down-registered. That is, the weight might be 3,3 tons, formally speaking, and then you can only load 200 kilograms to run so legally, within 3.5 tons. But those cars are produced for a higher weight, and they can withstand a higher weight. Technically, they're built to withstand it. It's just a legal and technical subtlety that they're so-called down-registered. It's clear that when you can only bring a couple of hundreds of pounds, maybe a maximum of 300 pounds -- now I'm not going to start talking about the wife and that, I don't know if I'm going to go into it. [[muttering in the hall]] I am also very pleased that the representative Place is making two important points. One of them is that if you have EU type-approval, you must, of course, have type-approval in Norway. There is no logic in that you have to drive to the traffic station and physically show every single van. Everyone understands that it's heavy, and everyone understands that it's expensive, and if you're busy with empty driving and pollution, there's no good environmental accounting either. But in the case of the seats and bed places that the representative of the town was fortunately also in: I also very much appreciate that the government is willing to clean up. It's so strange today that the standard seats are 1.9 meters long and 50 centimeters wide, but you're even allowed to go down to 1.4 meters long and 45 centimeters wide. It's not as big a person as you can bring with you – you can bring a baby, and it's nice. But then it keeps inserting an extra cushion to bring an extra passenger, even if you have seats with safety belts that are not approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1706	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1713	The establishment of shore-side electricity is an important field of activity for both current and future ports. Alternative fuels have come to be, and the opportunities they provide are both exciting and important. Good grant schemes offered by Enova today allow shore-side electricity to be provided in ports on both shore and ship sides. Enova has repeatedly proved to be an important tool for those who want to focus more on environmentally sound solutions. They are there for individuals wishing to set up solar cells on their own roof, or for ports wishing to deploy their own alternative fuel infrastructure. According to Enova, 7 pst is coming. of the greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport while the vessels are at rest in port. A large cruise ship at berth for 8 hours emits as much NO x as the annual emissions from about 700 passenger cars. In other words, with green solutions, we have a lot to pick up on what the ports do. The Government Parties and the Advance Party want the development of alternative fuel infrastructure to take place primarily on commercial terms, where ports themselves plan how they will do so. Locally, they know the best where the shoe prints and what possibilities they have. There have been many good examples of this all over the country. The Law on Ports and Waterways also facilitates the self-incentive of ports to use shore-side electricity through environmental differentiation of fees and charges. Actions have already been initiated and grant schemes have been established and otherwise there are processes in place in all the areas in which proposals are being made in the case. The majority, consisting of the Right, Left and Advance Party, therefore consider it not appropriate to go under any of the proposals, but look forward very much to the outcome of the processes we are already involved in. At least there is no doubt that alternative fuels will be important for today's and future ports, which I am sure everyone in the committee can agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1731	The Workers' Party has delivered this Document 8 proposal, which is under consideration today, and it is intended to develop a comprehensive infrastructure for shore-side electricity and alternative fuels in larger ports. The Labour Party is the coastal party, but also technology optimists, and we want to support the innovation and innovation we have seen in maritime Norway in recent years. There has been a raging development in the development of all-electric, or electricity in combination with other fuels, both ferries and boats serving our long-range coast. Our first electric ferry, MF «Ampere», was built in 2014 and serves the E39 Sognefjord, Lavik–Oppedal. An autonomous vessel, ‘Yara Birkeland’, has been developed. These are just a few examples of the raging development in the maritime nation of Norway. Against this background, the Labour Party sees the need for the State to contribute to the organisation of environmentally friendly and alternative fuels in all major ports. We know that electricity, or a combination of electricity and other fuels, is gradually being expanded to a greater extent. An example of this is the new offer in the coastal route requiring more environmentally friendly fuels. In order to succeed, even beyond the access points of the coastal route, and to be preferred by the maritime industry, there must be provision of shore-side electricity in many ports. Tests are also carried out on hydrogen and ammonia, and these tests must also be followed up. The working party is concerned that the government parties and the Progress Party seem to be very satisfied with the situation and insist that this proposal should not be adopted. It's a little forward-looking, it doesn't strengthen the maritime industry and the yard industry, and it doesn't contribute to the increased use of alternative fuels. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV. We are asking that our 32 core networks be able to provide shore-side electricity by 2025. Furthermore, we are asking for different renewable energy sources to be provided, as well as for progress in the development of land and cargo electricity standards, and to facilitate the liberalisation of tariffs. We need to move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1744	Then the representative, Ingelill Olsen, addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1749	The government will require low-emission solutions for all ferries tenders by 2023 and all tenders for speedboats by 2025. It's the first news released from the government's climate plan, which comes during the year. So more and more of the maritime transport is going to be without emissions. It is very good to have big targets for the country's climate budget, the yard industry and the green shift. Not least by creating zero-emission solutions at sea, we'll be able to extract a very big power overall. I want to give a little example. To Narvik harbour it comes about. 400 bulk ships and 30 cruise ships per year. Traffic is increasing, at least before the coronary virus came. Large traffic is evidence of great activity, and there is no doubt that this is a very high potential for a large environmental benefit. A Capesize ore ship actually contains between 5 and 8 million litres of heavy oil. Due to air quality, marine diesel shall be used in the port. I look forward with optimism to the fact that much less diesel and heavy oil can be used, that zero emissions are common. It will be very good for the climate, and it will be a less general pollution hazard. In order to speed up the green shift and move in the right direction, it is very important to expand and adapt the port structure to this green shift. There I might think it's, what to say, a missing link, because the government says this should be built on a commercial basis. But we know that it's harder to build out all over the country, especially on a commercial basis. We are looking at broadband development, and we are looking at the lack of charging points in the districts. I think here we need a much bigger bet. It is necessary to explore how ports can also provide shore-side electricity for large ships and to develop shore-side electricity and charging standards for all groups of vessels. The centre party is involved in all the proposals made by the representative of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1760	This is a topic that SV has been working on for many years, to get charging current and to set requirements for ships on calls for environmental emissions. What is the big question here is not only whether we have a charge supply, but also what the ship has of facilities on board to connect to. That's the other side of this case. And then the big question is what kind of demands ports can put to the approaching ships. We had this up in June 2019. Then we had a debate here on new port and water laws, and then SV and the entire red-green opposition had a proposal that the government should promote a change of law that allowed municipal authorities to set requirements for shore-side power connections on ships. It was then dismayed. Then there have been some uncertainties – I can say to the Council of State as well – about what kind of tools local ports have to set requirements for ship connection options if you have shore-side power offers. I know that's different practice, and there's a lot of smart around in the local ports to get this done under the law. What we have seen is, among other things, Trondheim has been quite nice, the local port company there. They use what is called the EPA, the Environmental Port Index, to bill higher those who call and who have higher emissions. That means that you can distinguish a little here between friends and enemies, I kept saying, between those who are good at emissions, and those who are stuttering, so that they can taste it on the invoice. What I want to ask the Council of State, and I hope he can respond to, is whether he can say a little about what opportunities local ports have to impose conditions within the current legislation. As far as I have understood, according to the treatment, inter alia: by the Law on Ports and Waters, it is now possible to impose requirements only if local emissions are too high, i.e. some of the same things that we can often talk about here with the rush time charges you have for cars. It would be all right to get an answer to that. If not, I may be able to ask the question in the reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1769	Green shipping is clearly the future, both within the green shift and, not least, for a zero-emission society. It was mentioned that we have already made demands through the climate plan. There are demands now that we hope the Storting is on, in terms of speedboats and ferries. There has also been a long discussion about port connectivity. Ten years ago, I think, I was elected to the Trondheim Havn Parliament and then I sat there as the municipal council. There wasn't anything very willing to start electrifying, for what would you do with that? There was actually no ship that had access to this stream of land. But then the green started shifting. There has been a fantastic development among shipowners, there have been state contributions through Enova, the ports have come up with a completely different way of thinking, and also the network companies. The companies have now been given access to the fact that the Rolls Royce solution does not need to be built. You can build something weaker. That's what's been the big bend, because it's been so expensive to add a whole new network structure, infrastructure, into the ports. Now you can build something simpler, to put it like that, because you make agreements about untenable tariffs in some periods, when the load gets too high. And then we're going to get a lot easier on the solution. It's also so that it actually gets a lot cheaper. Construction contributions are not going to be so high, and both the port services, the customers and everyone involved are moving faster towards the goal. I think the work done on this in recent years is very good. It's nice that the opposition is impatient when it comes to making concrete proposals, even about ammonia, which I don't know the technical solution to how to produce hydrogen from yet, but I'd like to do for me. We're going to be very offensive in this, but it's not all the solutions that have been invented yet, to say it like that, and then I think the contributions that have been through the system now, and that are on the steps of the government, are very good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1780	I think we can say that when it comes to electrification of the maritime sector, Norway has come the longest in the world. That's why I thought it was exciting with the four suggestions that lie here. Two of them are actually within the responsibility that I have, two of them belong to the oil and energy minister. But just because we've come this far, I'm going to say that with standards and leaders, we should take a leadership on and follow it up really. I am thinking of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Then I would like to say to what the representative Mossleth said: on holiday offers, we now come to demand low or zero emissions from 2023. For speedboats, we do it from 2025. It shows the offensive hold we must have and have in these kinds of questions. The representative Nävra also addressed what the new port and water law actually provides. It is precisely the means by which port owners are now given – that they are given the opportunity to manage fees and charges in line with environmental indices. This means local emissions, and climate change must certainly also be possible. To the first proposal from the Labour Party, having an offensive attitude to this is very important. Enova has benefited from support schemes and has only allocated 629 million since 2014. kr to more than 83 shore-side electricity projects. And shore-side electricity is in operation or under construction in over 60 ports. In January of this year, Enova launched a new set of shore-side electricity support schemes, which also includes project support, such as: provides actors with a better basis of decision. It is important that we continue this, and the government wants the development of alternative fuel infrastructure to take place on commercial terms and at the earliest possible stage in order to achieve it. Ports are municipal or private owned, and they themselves need plans to invest in alternative fuel infrastructure. That is why what Mr Nävra refers to is so important, because then they also have a real opportunity to follow up. Then I will also refer to what is added to proposal No. 2, that Stortinget asks the government to facilitate electrification of port infrastructure combined with other development. It is the oil and energy minister who is responsible here. The government supports the electrification of port infrastructure through Enova. We have also seen the project Elnett21 in Stavanger, with among others. Forus Nueringspark and Risavika Port, has received 40 million. NOK to this. I should have said more, but the time passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1797	It's allowed to take the word several times, if you want. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1804	The quotation ‘Everything is related to everything’ is well known, also in this area. In the case of zero or low-emission ships, it is closely related to port availability and also to strengthening its development. It's an example of everything being related to everything. How will the Council of State ensure that the development in this area is accompanied by the expansion and conversion of ships with this technology, and not just by the fact that the ports are municipally owned? Can the Council of State imagine that we are going to get even better reward schemes to the ports in order to get this development speeded up?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1812	I think the experience you have in this type of area is that you have to pay to choose the environmentally friendly solutions. I believe that the freedom granted by port and water laws, which allows owners to charge for the environmental cost, is a good tool. I think we have enjoyed quite well, government and flooding in common, when we now see that we have got 60 ports where they build facilities related to the land-use project in Norway. What I want to make sure is that we continue this development, that we are simply happy with it. We also see that technology not only becomes the shore-stream technology; we see autonomous boats. It's going to be a huge development, and we have to make sure that Norway is in the front. So far, we're happy with that. As I said, before electrification of the maritime sector, I believe Norway has come the longest in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1819	The Labour Party fully agrees that this should happen on commercial terms, but we have spent a significant number of millions on investment, and then it turned out – at least that was the way we wrote the proposal – that there are 32 tribal networks, and 18 of them had no infrastructure connected to charging infrastructure. Among the others, it was a little unclear which technology they had, so that it was not given that short sea shipping could put it into use. Some of the challenge is that it is the municipalities that own a large proportion of the ports and have local maritime councils. How are we going to get that effect out of it? It is okay that shipping companies invest, but when they cannot use it, they do not get the necessary advantage, given that climate-friendly solutions have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1832	I share the description with the representative Grung. It's important that we succeed in this, but I didn't think the picture was clearly negative when we see that there are 83 projects going on, and there are 60 ports that have this. It's very good, because when there's so many ports, they see the ports that don't have it, that they have a real challenge in competition. I think I'm positive, because then it becomes a competitive advantage to be environmentally friendly. We often use the electric car as an example, and I think it's a good example here too, because it shows that when we see that it's both environmentally friendly, climate-friendly and attractive, and we're good at getting a price mechanism, it's often the best way to do it. So I'm glad that also the Labour Party is quite a few in that we're going to use commercial terms. Then I think we'll get the fastest expansion as well, and that's good for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1839	But within this industry it is actually the carrier who has to take the cost, not just the owner. When we have rv. 1, with short sea shipping along the coast, and so few ports have arranged infrastructure, it turns out to be challenging. Once again, is it possible to see if we can create a standardisation link to the municipalities? I have an additional question, and it concerns the private ports. For example, the company Utkilen has invested in some of the most environmentally friendly boats, but the private ports have – despite the fact that there are large state companies they transport, such as Equinor, Yara, etc. – not invested in it at all. So a little bit back to what the Council of State said in its statement, that the public has to make demands. Now we do that with regard to ferries, etc., but could it also be relevant to make demands where we are a big player, i.e. according to state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1846	It's an exciting thinking how we as a public actor can make demands. I don't want to reject it, but I don't want to take it right over the table. I understand that the carrier takes part of the cost, but it is also possible to charge the cost on, among other things. owners of goods and final stage users. I also think that what is in proposal No. 3, with standardisation, is important, also because Norway is the most advanced. In fact, I believe that we can contribute not only to Norwegian ports and the Norwegian maritime sector, but also to the European and international sectors in this area, as well as to the world, because we are the most advanced. I think it is important that we continue our standardisation work, because it is very important that we do not have many different standards. It would be very demanding for the maritime sector to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1853	The government lacks a very fundamental premise in the requirement for low-emission solutions for ferries and high-speed craft, namely the premise that the cost of this part of the green shift should not be passed on to the coastal population. Neither can the government add the bill to the county councils, because then they have to cut the number of routes and departures, and the cost cannot be put directly on the user through increased ticket prices. How will the government finance the green shift when low emissions are required at sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1858	I want to be honest about it and say that the huge investment we have had in the climate of the national road ferry connection has cost me a bit. But we also see that going to zero-driving also has a hunching cost, i.e. that it is expensive when we make the investments, and then the operating costs are lower. On the connection on Sognefjord, they say that the operating costs of this connection are a coffee cup and a porridge. It's important that we follow up. We gave 100 million. In 2018, which is still in the frame, we gave 150 million. kr i revised, and we're going to have 100 million. kr in the budget for 2021. I'm busy following up on the commitment we have. We are forced to deliver on climate and environment, and it should not lead to poorer supply and expensive ferry tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1867	The centre party would like to be a green spearhead in the conversion to sea, but when the government wants the development of alternative fuel infrastructure to take place on commercial terms and at the earliest possible stage without support, the Minister knows that commercial development is difficult to reach anywhere. Storing and government needs those who are going to contribute to the green shift in the blue sea to join the team, and then the government has to give the climate a real opportunity by facilitating charging power and other green energy carriers. I would like to ask: what does the Minister really think that the proposals in this case are minority proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1874	The most important thing for me is that we have an offensive approach to this. As I have said before, having 83 charging power projects and 60 ports in Norway shows that we are far ahead – yes, there is no nation in the world that is further ahead than Norway. I think we can be a few if we want to be the most important thing. I also believe that when it comes to technology and technology choices, we should be careful to make policy decisions. There, I think those who have the real knowledge are the best ones to make just those choices. But we need to ensure and facilitate that it becomes profitable to make environmentally friendly, climate-friendly choices, and I think that I have now managed to create a political wholeness around – that we are happy with it. So in this area, I'm optimistic. I also think that developments have been very positive in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1881	I am very pleased that the Council of State places such emphasis on this with the electrification of the coast as he does. I think most people here in the hall, maybe a little bit with the exception of the Advancement Party, are very preconceived and see the combination of transport and economic development together. As SV sees it, we've been betting on what we call green new deal, which is one of the projects where we can point to winners in future economic development in Norway in the green shift. Then maybe the maritime industry is one of the most important things, among other things. electric ferries and electrical technology are export goods. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether, with current legislation, we have the opportunity to say no to calls for ships that cannot be connected to shore-side electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1889	We don't have that legislation today, by today's date, either because we don't make a complete offer to say no. But I think that the representative here is referring to how important it is to be offensive. For example, the representative Nävra shows that we have very climate-friendly ferries that go to Norway and that have also created Norwegian jobs. I think we need to see the same possibility in the quick boat market. And the fast boat market has an even greater chance of becoming an export industry for Norway, because in the future we will need more and more just zero speedboats. So here there are good, climate-friendly solutions in Norway, but also opportunities to create jobs in total. And as I have said several times: the maritime sector in Norway is the largest in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1894	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1901	When we promoted this proposal, it was precisely because of what the Council of State said, that the maritime sector is actually one of the areas where we have the greatest potential to create new jobs and increase value creation in Norway. This applies not least to the municipality of the state council, where at least Eidesvik and Wärtsilä are well ahead to develop future technologies needed in low-emission ships. But we also need a home market. What has been a little bit of frustration for short sea shipping in particular is – as I was about the question to the Council of State – that they don't see that they get a win along the way by the fact that there are so few places that have it installed, at least the main ports they use. I also have to say that there was a very positive response I got to whether it is possible to roll more of the costs over to the owner of the goods and to the end user, because it will also be included in the calculation in the future. Then, with standards, it's absolutely crucial. Brothers Aa, who have also been far ahead – it is in another part of Western Europe – say that every time they get a new ship, new standards have come. It makes it very expensive to build low emissions. Standards apply to ships when they are built, but also when ships in close proximity are to be added, it appears that ports have installed the charging infrastructure one place while they have to unload and load elsewhere. It also makes it more expensive to use the ports. So that with the standards of the technology to be used, but also that they become more neutral, plus looking at how to set it up in the ports, is incredibly important in the future. It is also about getting more goods by sea, and it is also positive that maritime transport is becoming as environmentally friendly as possible. The development of the domestic market is absolutely crucial, so we look forward to further output from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1912	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1929	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1947	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1954	The Committee has examined these two proposals for representatives together. There is an overall committee that shares a concern about the situation in reception camps in several parts of the world, including in the Greek camps. The infectious situation associated with the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated an already demanding situation in camps that houses far more asylum seekers than there is real capacity to do. These are camps with poor sanitary conditions and a long procedure for applications for protection. The Committee considers that there is a need for better long-term solutions in the European asylum system and notes the recent start of work on the European migration and asylum system in the EU. An overall committee is also clear that the responsibility for finding solutions in cooperation with other European countries lies with the government. This also includes the handling of any requests to contribute to the relocalisation of asylum seekers from Greek clays. Furthermore, I assume that the other parties explain their views on the matter. The Central Party considers that the UN ETS should be prioritised in front of other relocation solutions. The responsibility for the management of the situation in Greek clays lies primarily with the Greek authorities. However, with the precarious situation associated with the covid-19 outbreak and the overcrowded capacity of the camps, it is necessary in this situation that a wide range of European countries assume joint responsibility. Norway should contribute to this. The current low arrival rate for asylum seekers in Norway suggests that sufficient capacity should be provided in the reception system, while ensuring the protection of the disease. In order to safeguard asylum seekers as well as the Norwegian population, the necessary infective measures must be ensured on arrival. The situation in Greek camps is, like in other camps, very serious. Congestion and miserable sanitary conditions make it very difficult to maintain a good level of infection protection in the face of a covid-19 outbreak. The situation of overcrowded camps hampers the task of ensuring safety, especially for vulnerable children. The children who are in the camps without care are most vulnerable, and the situation is worse the younger they are. The centre party therefore considers that Norway should contribute to the reception of some of the lone minors under the age of 15 without caregivers. Girls are particularly vulnerable to sexual abuse and trafficking, and therefore priority should be given to them. The special situation of the covid-19 pandemic in 2020 means that Norway will not accept the 3 000 quota refugees planned for this year. Within that number, Norway should therefore ensure that parts of the quota for quota refugees are intended for the relocation of asylum seekers from Greece. Norway should give priority to the most vulnerable persons most likely to meet protection requirements in Norway, including younger children and vulnerable families with minors. The information needs to be clarified in cooperation with the UNHCR, so that those collected are most likely to qualify for protection in Norway. Today, therefore, the Centre promotes proposals to receive some of the most vulnerable children and vulnerable families with minor children, within the annual quota of 3000 refugees. To achieve this, a broad range of European countries agreeing on a reception agreement is needed, and Norway, in dialogue with the United Nations, is assessing who are the most vulnerable individuals within those groups. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1986	The representative of Willfred Nordlund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e1991	The Labour Party believes that Norway’s main priority in refugee and asylum policy should be transfer refugees through the UN system – quota refugees. This is how we best ensure that it is the most vulnerable refugees with a real need for protection coming to Norway. We support a fair and well-organized regime that does not require people to put their lives in the hands of human traffickers in order to apply for protection. Therefore, we are promoting proposals to increase the number of quota refugees by 500 in 2021 and to rapidly develop a plan to address the relocation of vulnerable asylum-seekers with protection needs from Greece, and to present a concrete plan for the number of asylum-seekers to receive Norway from Greece in 2021. The Labour Party has introduced an increase of 500 quota refugees into our alternative state budget. When there are low asylum arrivals, there is room for it in 2021. The situation on the Greek islands has been precarious for a long time, and after Moria burned down, the situation has intensified – strong images and stories that have impressed us all. We have to stand up. Norway is part of Europe, and we depend on joint efforts and solidarity. Collapses in transit countries or countries of destination will mean disaster for all the people – children, women, families – who end up in the hands of traffickers, but it also means an uncontrolled flow of asylum, which is neither fair nor sustainable. That is why we have a common interest in putting people on the run and in a fair and predictable refugee policy. For the Workers' Party, the UN track is crucial. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has asked Europe to stand up for Greece and the Greek islands. The UN and other actors have also pointed out that they can be involved and assist on the ground to ensure that those needing protection are provided. Therefore, we believe that the government, with an increase in the number of quota refugees in 2021 in dialogue with the UN and other relevant actors, must make a concrete assessment of the share of this increase to be used for relocated asylum seekers with protection needs from Greece. By increasing the number by 500, the government will provide a significant space for action so that this does not exceed the 3,000 allowance refugees already planned for 2021. This case has gone out. It is clear that there is a lack of political will in the government. It is still unclear when the 50 people who will pick up Norway will arrive. Everyone knows that the proposal came into place reluctantly in 12 hours from the government. The government has locked itself to that number is 50, and the Christian People's Party leader Ropstad has pointed out that 50 is what it is majority for. It's wrong. There's a number today's government locked up before Moria burned down. The Workers' Party's assessment is that the government must now deliver. It is wrong and unsolvable for the government to lock itself to 50. Norway manages more, but the responsibility lies with the government, which has to engage with the UN and other countries in Europe who are willing to do so. At a time when the pandemic hits all countries, and the countries that house millions of refugees may be even harder because they don't have the welfare society we have in Norway, it's sad that those who choose to relocate from Greece are taken from the number of quota refugees. That is why the Labour Party's proposal will help us both to prepare for Greece, to keep the UN track as our main priority, and to ensure that this does not go beyond quota refugees already planned. Finally, I am promoting the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2012	The representative Masud Gharahkhani then addressed the proposals he referred to. The majority takes a break in the debate to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2026	The vote will begin on Friday 4 December on agenda No. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2103	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to pay a national maximum price for boat and ferry tickets, where the State fully compensates for the loss of revenue of the counties by introducing such a scheme.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the advance payment to AutoPASS for ferries at the same amount as the deposit cost for AutoPASS bombs.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2143	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up the criteria for financing boat and ferry operations so that counties responsible for this part of the infrastructure can develop good offers based on reasonable fares.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a financing mechanism whereby the State fully takes on the additional costs of climate change conversion of the county’s fast-boat and ferry traffic. The scheme must capture both the measures implemented and the measures to be taken in the future.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2174	During the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the advance payment to AutoPASS for ferries to NOK 1000.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2191	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2199	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have now announced subsidiary support for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2235	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a key message on a national bicycle strategy’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2261	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to develop a cycling strategy in the context of the roll-out of the National Transport Plan’.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2287	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2301	44 votes in favour and 44 against. With the President's double voice, the Committee's position is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2313	During the debate, Mr Slagsvold Vedum tabled two proposals on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up guidelines whereby a maximum part of the State pension fund’s foreign activity is to be carried out from Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks that the State pension fund abroad’s activities in Norway be disseminated to a greater extent so that it participates in the whole country’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2354	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Runar Seestad on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Emilie Enger Mehl on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 2 was changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The size requests the Government immediately and by 15 December 2020 at the latest, to follow up a clear zone management of wolves by not allowing areas outside the wolf zone to be exempted from licensing as long as the agreed stocking targets for the stockpiles of the stockpiles of the stockpiles of wolves have been achieved.’;» Mr Aasrud has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2373	If the Labour Party's proposal falls, I would recommend that the Members of the Labour Party vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2378	Mr Enger Mehl has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2383	Proposal No. 3 from the Center Party and the Advance Party is our primary position. I would nevertheless urge the representatives of the Central Party to vote in a subsidiary way for the Workers' Party's proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We do that in order to arrive at a solution in the matter to help secure the majority for any extension of the wolf zone in contravention of the predatory game settlement. I would like to stress that support for the Workers' Party's proposals should not be interpreted as a support for clear zone management, and would refer to the comments made by the Centre's party at the Innst. 330 S for 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2390	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are going to vote. There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to follow the administrative principles adopted at the Inst. 330 S where only the Storting has the power to decide on changes in the nationally determined wolf zone.» [[2015-2016]] The Right, Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2402	The left shall also vote in favour. The parties to the Government have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2407	Then I'll correct it. The right, the left, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2422	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government immediately and by 15 December 2020 at the latest, to follow up a clear zone management of wolves by not allowing areas outside the wolf zone to be exempted from licensing as long as the agreed stocking targets for the stockpiles of the stockpiles of the stockpiles of wolves have been achieved.’;» The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2439	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop any extension of the wolf zone, including temporary extension. Temporary extension means protection zones/buffer zones which protect a demarcated area in pasture priority areas outside the wolf zone where licence can normally be exercised. Existing extension of the zone shall be repealed with effect from 15 December 2020.’;» The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2456	The President will propose that the representative proposal of the representatives of the Magnificent Emilie Enger Mehl, Sandra Borch, Willfred Nordlund and Heidi Greni to stop the expansion of the wolf son to protect the so-called Elgå wolf be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2473	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2486	During the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The members of the Nobel Committee shall be chosen on the basis of professional qualifications and personal suitability. Candidates must be assessed on the basis of knowledge of, and consent to, peacekeeping and disarmament as defined by Alfred Nobel.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2530	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2549	During the debate, Mr Gharahkhani presented seven proposals on behalf of the Labour Party. Mrs Arnstad has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2556	In this case, I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of the proposal No. 1-4, from the Workers' Party. There are a number of questions that Stortinget asks the government to come back to Stortinget. This also applies to proposal No. 5. from the Workers' Party, which is in line with the budgetary priorities of the Centre Party. With regard to the draft law in case No. 3, the Centre considers it difficult to vote in favour of the type of legislative amendment, in particular because this is a change in law which the Stortinget has been invited to implement without prior comitology, without the thorough consideration that such a case should have. The members of the Central Party are hereby invited to vote against the legislative proposal in their own proposal for a representative, 71 L.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2563	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for the determination of the total number of refugees Norway is to integrate over time. The plan shall be based on the principle that the number of asylum arrivals, quota refugees and family reunification with refugees shall be viewed in the context and family reunification with quota refugees shall be completed before they arrive in Norway. The number shall be set on the basis of negotiations between the municipalities and the State, where the size determines the total number. The recommendations of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees shall be emphasised throughout the process.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2580	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the implementation of intensive courses in democracy, equality and Norwegian working life and to set up a pilot scheme for Norwegian quota refugees before they arrive in Norway.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2597	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up its own solidarity pool for refugees over the development budget to contribute to the protection and dignity of humanitarian conditions for refugees, while at the same time providing poor host countries in the neighbourhoods with better opportunities to meet the long-term needs of refugees.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2615	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with proposals for changes to the law which, within the framework of international commitments, provide a clearer distinction between Convention status and subsidiary protection, by limiting the right to family reunification and extending the use of provisional authorisations in the case of subsidiary protection.» [[asyl]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan on how Norway can contribute to the more effective fight against irregular migration, including ensuring that today’s mandate to refer asylum seekers to safe third countries outside the EU is actively used. This requires cooperation agreements with third countries which ensure that the need for protection of asylum seekers is properly addressed.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government requests the same requirements for the clarification of the identity of permanent residence and family establishment as for citizenship.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the regulation ensuring self-sufficiency through a tightening of the maintenance requirement and to consider possible strengthening of the provision on the access requirement in family start-up cases.’ The Progress Party and the Central Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2710	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2723	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2737	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2749	During the debate, Øystein Langholm Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to continue the requirement for installed tax collectors in taxis.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2814	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary aid. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2828	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Greens and Reds will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2843	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2855	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Kirsti Leirtrø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the number of possible cabotage operations from three to two’. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2881	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide a basis for the inclusion in the Road Traffic Act of provisions of the Public Procurement Act, such as the obligation to provide information to contracting entities, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the inclusion of outstanding fees and other defaults, including, inter alia, breaches of general interest rules, as part of the risk classification system in the transport sector, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e2905	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3041	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3051	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3073	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3149	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3160	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3323	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3333	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3345	During the debate, Mr Johnsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Transport is authorised to carry out the project, etc. 4 Roa–Gran border incl. Jaren-Amundrud/Almenningsdeleet-Lygnebakken in the Inland within a cost framework of 2,180 million. 2020-krona. The Ministry of Transport is authorised to adjust the cost framework for actual price increases. The size implies state full funding.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3375	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3449	It is easy to become emotionally engaged and influenced by the images and stories we see and hear from the camps in Greece – and other parts of the world, for that matter. From both the media and some organisations and individuals, a few impressions can be that the government does not do enough for us to accept the 50 migrants that we have agreed to receive from Greece. It is produced as if it were just traveling down and getting them. Of course it's not like that. Nevertheless, in recent years Norway has taken several thousand transfer refugees. There are no countries in Europe that have taken the same number as Norway if we compare with the population, and there are only four countries that have taken the opposite view in absolute numbers. For the Right, it is important that we give priority to them with a need for protection. Norway has relieved Greece and the EU many times. The time has come for the EU and Greece to take up their duties in the driver’s seat and to set up an asylum treatment system that is overdue. The processes currently under way in the EU for the revision of the Common European Asylum System are thus uplifting. The work currently being done is in many ways a recognition that temporary solutions do not help. The challenges we have seen in Greece, Malta and Cyprus resulting from migratory flows cannot be solved by these countries alone. In the debate we have today, if we are to give priority to relieving Greece’s extremes, it is important to bear in mind that Norway participated voluntarily in the EU relocalisation programme in 2015/2016, where we relocated 1 509 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece to Norway. According to the European Commission, only the EU countries Ireland and Malta relocated as many asylum seekers as they were obliged to under the temporary relocalisation scheme in 2015/2016. EEA countries Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein participated on a voluntary basis. Norway voluntarily added 1,500 relocation sites, and we relocated a total of 1,509 asylum seekers. Norway also contributed to an ad hoc relocalisation from Malta in the summer of 2018. Since 2017, Norway has also taken on 970 people who would be treated in Greece, but have been treated here in Norway. During this period, we have also opposed 24 single minor asylum seekers from Greece. So Norway has definitely contributed several times with solid effort. In addition, during the financial period 2012 to 2024, we shall make available, through the EEA funds, approximately 650 million. to contribute to effective asylum management, legal security and more dignified reception conditions for asylum seekers in Greece. The majority of this effort is directed at vulnerable migrants. In recent years, the government through EU support services has contributed both material and resources to Greek reception in addition to the medical team sent to the islands of Greece from Norway to assist with the fire in the Moria reception camp at Lésvos. The relocation of asylum seekers from Greece complements other Norwegian assistance to Greece. Norway’s efforts in Greece and for migrants that need to be seen in a coherent context. Sorry, there is no one single solution on a continuous migration pressure. What we need is common European solutions that do not signal that those who come without a basis for suspension and protection can expect to be preserved. Norway needs solutions that also allow those who are refused a stay to return to their home country or to safe transit countries. If the Refugee Convention and the Asylum Institute are to function in the future, it will depend on the functioning of the asylum system so as to provide protection to people who need it and will not be used for other purposes. We must give priority to helping people who have a real need for protection. In the meantime, we need to address Greece’s humanitarian problem and the challenges they face.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3464	There have been heartbreaking scenes to see in the Mediterranean and in the refugee camps, especially in Greece, and there is a great deal of understanding that people are getting involved and wanting to help. However, it is also in such difficult cases that one has to see a whole and carefully assess what the measures will lead to. It's not always that what's most nearby to believe is what will help best. What is happening in Europe, which has been happening for several years now, suggests an asylum system that has failed. The asylum system favors those who can pay, not those who need the most protection. It is governed by criminal gangs, it lures people into a life-threatening journey, and it also puts the systems and societies in Europe under undue pressure. And that's how Norway has contributed strongly in a lot of ways. Much of what we've done helps. Some of what we've done has not helped. In 2016-2017, Norway decided to relocate around 1,500 asylum seekers from Italy and Greece. At that time there were about 3,000 asylum seekers in the Moria camp. After fetching, the nearest arrivals doubled. They increased by 70 pst. the first year, and in 2020, before the fire, the number of asylum seekers in the Moria camp had increased from around 3000 to around 13000. There is nothing to suggest that getting asylum seekers from crowded camps in Europe helps. Rather, on the contrary, it leads to more people embarking on a life-threatening journey, more will end up in suffering and distress, and more people will die on the road. It's the harsh, brutal facts, and I think it's strange that we have a national assembly that doesn't have the ability to see these obvious conditions. It is now that the government has decided to pick up 50 asylum seekers from the Moria camp and these are to be taken from the quota of 3000 quota refugees. The total number is not going to be higher. All you do is send out a signal that you are now choosing to give priority to some of those who need it the most, i.e. quota refugees, for the benefit of asylum seekers with a more doubtful need for protection. It's not a good signal to give to the world's needy. It only signals one thing, and it's that if you're in a camp with TV cameras nearby, you get Norway's attention. If you're in one of the other camps, which don't have TV cameras and journalists nearby, you'll get no attention and no help either. Another effect of such a priority is that although the number of people arriving in Norway does not increase, the signal will lead to more people being lured into a dangerous journey. This is precisely what is the big downside of politicians in Norway not being able to give priority. I also think it is strange that a number of rapporteurs from the Central Party and the Labour Party have been fighting about who can accept most asylum seekers from the Moria camp, while the same rapporteurs stand and refuse to settle people with special needs who have been waiting in Norway for up to seven years to settle. It testifies that it is not primarily a desire to help, but it is primarily a desire to present oneself as a good person, but to say no when the request comes. There are solutions to this problem. Australia was in the same situation in 2013 as Europe is now. They refused to deal with all asylum applications from boat migrants, and in almost one day they managed to get the death to zero. And when we see that it worked so well – and the most important thing should be to save human lives – then Europe and Norway should also follow along to save human lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3477	If you're going to save human lives, you have to protect refugees. For war and persecution exist, and it will not end sail if we turn our backs on and close the borders. Greece asks for help, the UN asks Norway to stand up, but some in Norway seem to know better than those present from the Refugee Aid, from the Drop in the Sea, from the Redd Barna, from the Doctor Without Borders – all those present on the ground saying that here is the crisis. The Norwegian government did everything they could to do nothing, while this disastrous situation, among other things. in Moria arose. Everyone knew that. A decision was subsequently made that Norway would accept if several others did so. On Thursday this week, the first of eight aircraft scheduled to pick up vulnerable asylum seekers from Greece in December was relieved. That plane goes to Germany. The next plane also goes to Germany. There is not a single one going to Norway, because Norway has fallen. The government and the majority expressed a reluctance to do something, and such strict criteria were established that Norway’s request was not prioritised in the system, because simply the countries that are more open have to be chosen. There are nine European countries now receiving 1,643 refugees. The situation on the ground in Greece is terrible, and in the new camp that is now being built on Lésvos, you set up high barbed wire fences instead of giving those who live there, access to water, access to do, access to heat when winter comes. I was there last year, and it was freezing, I just promise you. I'm glad people get engaged. Thank you, everyone. The management of the government has been terribly poor. That is why, together with the Greens/EFA, SV is promoting proposals that we should accept more. Now it seems that we're not going to receive a single one this year, and the government keeps pointing at and blaming others. But it's their own dating that has made it like this, along with the criteria that have been set. I hear more people talking about us just having to accept these families of children who are Syrian and who must be united, and that only those who have need of protection. No, it is not – there are many others living in these camps who have need of protection. Several of the lone minors also have it. Last year, 57 out of 60 minor asylum seekers from Afghanistan stayed in Norway. 73 pst. it was received by the applicants from Afghanistan. It hasn't exactly become peace there, as you know. Several also mention this relocalisation that Norway was involved in, and that Norway was as well the very best at that time as well. In fact, according to the European Commission, the relocation programme was a success. 96 pst. the asylum seekers who fulfilled the condition at the time were moved to another country. So that works. But the government says no, they won't, because the others don't do enough. Well, now the others are doing something, and Norway is doing nothing. The government has also tried to return almost 1000 asylum seekers to Greece, in the middle of the current situation. Of course, they have not accepted – just a few of them, as far as I know. But of course Norway should not do this in the situation that the representative Trellevik also describes – they are at the border, and they get the whole trick. Norway is not going to drive and return asylum seekers there now, is it? Then we have to be able to deal with those applications here. And if they don't claim asylum, well, then they have to be returned. It's also all the time this discussion about taking this away from the quota refugees. SV thinks we should follow the UN in terms of the quota system, because that's what everybody says we should support ourselves, but then we have to listen to the UN. When the UN asks us to accept 5,000, Norway accepts 5,000 and does not customs. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal that the Central Party is promoting today, in which they believe that this should be done under the quota refugee scheme. But we can vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposals of the Labour Party. I'll take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3500	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3505	It's unfortunate about debates that this evolves into a struggle for who wants the most for the world's refugees. That's why I'm busy stressing that I think we all in this room will do the best for people who are forced to flee. We are all shaken by images from various refugee camps around the world, including pictures from the Moria camp, not least when it was hit by fire in September. We want to help in the best possible way. Therefore, it is important to bear in mind that Norway has contributed 650 million. kr for asylum management, legal certainty and dignity of reception in Greece. This is money that contributes to a better situation for the refugees. Norway has also contributed staff and competences to asylum treatment and border control. After the fire in Moria, we sent medical personnel to assist the Greek authorities. We have also said that we must accept 50 asylum seekers from Greece. We have informed the Greek authorities about this a while ago, and on Saturday we could read in our country that Norway has done all the necessary preparations. It is not Norway, and our ambassador in Greece has asked the authorities there to hurry. Someone has suspected the government to train matters and not follow up on the obligations. I would have preferred not to allow their political opponents false motives. The debate on people in need of life is demanding enough as it is. After the government landed in the number 50, we got the debate on the number and on Norway being able to receive more. In the Left, we should not conceal that, as is often the case, we are the minority in the United Kingdom who had seen Norway resort to a more liberal and humane immigration policy. There is also the fact that we want to receive more refugees to Norway. However, we manage to rejoice that we are in a government that accepts 50 asylum seekers from Greece. At the same time, I am pleased that many municipalities have agreed to accept these and many more asylum seekers from Greece if the Norwegian authorities had allowed it. The willingness to receive services in Norwegian municipalities seems to be high. Today there are several people who have received a residence permit in Norway and are waiting to settle. With the willingness to settle we have seen recently, I have great faith that we are able to accommodate those who have already stayed in Norway, as well as the asylum seekers we hope can accept from Greece if not for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3518	In May, the Christian People's Party celebrated a great breakthrough in the government. We got a solution that means Norway is picking up vulnerable children and families from the camps in Greece. We realised that Norway would contribute to a pan-European solution through the relocalisation initiative that was then available. The Christian People's Party played a lot and fought as hard as we could night and day until just hours before the vote in May. We did this because we thought helping was the only right thing to do in the situation we saw playing out on the Greek islands. We still believe that. Help is something we can all need from time to time, both as individuals and as a nation. That's what this pandemic taught us. That is why I am pleased that the fight we were in to make Norway part of the relocation initiative, has also resulted in further assistance to Greece from the government. Work and commitment have intensified. The government assists Greek authorities in the development of long-term solutions to the challenges facing them. The government is in dialogue with the EU on the new migration pact and on how to facilitate a more sustainable distribution of responsibilities. Through the EEA funds, we have about 600 million. contribute to the improvement of reception conditions, free legal assistance and more effective asylum treatment. Here, the government is responsible for finding solutions in cooperation with other European countries, which also include addressing any request to contribute to the relocalisation of Greece. The government has also speeded up a Norwegian medical team to strengthen the provision of health care to migrants. They've been treating more than 2,000 patients since mid-September. I've always been happy with the issues that create as much commitment as we see the so-called Moria case do, where municipalities, individuals and interest groups contribute to democracy in practice. This is a good move by Norway, and I am concerned that we are taking care of this. That is precisely why I think it is so important for the proposers to take care of this commitment by promoting representative proposals that tell us that this is still relevant and that the situation is still precarious. The Christian People's Party continues to look with concern at the situation in the host camps, both in Greece and elsewhere in the world. The infectious situation associated with the covid 19 pandemic has helped to exacerbate the situation in camps and reception around the world. I am therefore very proud to be able to stand here on the floor with an impact in a budgetary union with the Progress Party to continue to receive 3,000 quota refugees. But when we're going to help so many, we have to help both at a large international level with quota refugees, we have to help at a European level with good pan-European solutions, and we have to help when the distress knocks on the door – as we did when the Christian People's Party was able to relocate 50 vulnerable migrants from the camps in Greece. I believe it is important that we follow the situation closely and are willing to act and adapt when necessary. This government has chosen to deal with some 900 out of 1,028 asylum applications since 2017, when the Dublin directive came into force. This means that we are willing to adapt. And we're willing to act on the situation that's unfolding. Misunderstand me correctly: I have high expectations for this government in this field, and we in the Christian People's Party, as part of the government, will help to influence Norway to continue to help – both at a larger international level with quota refugees, at a European level with good pan-European solutions and at a national level when the need strikes the door. On the basis of this, we are therefore not voting today for the proposal for a representative to ‘evacuate refugees from Greece, in the context of the critical Moria situation, to the extent that Norwegian municipalities have the capacity to do so’, or for the representative’s proposal to ‘make a plan for the number of asylum seekers to evacuate Norway from Greece in 2021 and that the increase in the number of asylum seekers evacuated within Europe should not lead to Norway accepting fewer quota refugees via the UN’. We vote in favour of the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3539	After the Moria camp burned, a new provisional camp was built on Lésvos, in a bloated place right by the sea. There are now 7,800 people living there – about 2,600 of them are children. They live behind barbed wire in thin tents set up on pickstones, with miserable sanitary conditions. The harvest storms have already created floods, and now winter is here. Most people living there have risked their lives in a dangerous journey by boat to seek help, but Europe will not let them into its countries to use its right of asylum. We may wish that these people could not be found, that we could help them in their homelands they fled from, but they are in our Europe now. They have the same basic rights as you and I. That is what this matter is about: the right to seek asylum – not charity, not charity, not symbols and signals we send or do not send. This is about human rights and perhaps all of the most fundamental rights that were born after the Second World War, namely the right to seek protection in another country if one is persecuted or refugees from war, assault or terror, and the right to an individual treatment of his application. Civil rights and solidarity were the very foundation for the creation of a common Europe, which Norway enjoys being stable and peaceful. Most of the new Moria camp lost everything they had in the fire in September: toys, clothes, medicines, passports and documents and memories. Now they are totally dependent on voluntary health care and emergency care — volunteers who are regularly harassed by the police. Norway has contributed to a health team – or even fewer than that of volunteers from NPISHs at all times – and to money, yes, but we are failing in what Greece needs most: that Europe shares responsibility for providing people with security and dealing with their asylum application. The last thing is that many families who have been to Lésvos have traveled on to Bosnia. They're trying to get through Croatia to Italy. But on the border with Croatia they are stopped and met with aggressive and violent attempts by the authorities to keep the refugees away. Here, children sleep in the winter cold out in the woods. Refugees must hide from guards who kick, beat and shoot at them, because Europe is failing them in Greece. In this case, the disappointment of the population and of Norwegian municipalities is enormous. First, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party spend many months agreeing on a completely incomprehensible compromise – that Norway should wait until eight to ten other countries have evacuated before we do. So, when the Moria camp burned in September and children started to sleep right on the asphalt, the government said they could take responsibility for 50 people – 50! - in a camp of thousands. So, once they've decided, the government sets so many criteria for them we're going to pick up, that Greece only gets more work than relief and cannot give priority to Norway's contribution. That's why no one comes – not 500, not 2, not 50. While, throughout this year, open capacity remains unused for proceedings, reception, language training and integration in Norway. Norwegian municipalities are clear that they have a lot of capacity. There will hardly be asylum seekers because they will be stopped in Turkey and Greece. While in Greece, the asylum system is kneeling, and refugees are forced to live in the street. By the way, it has been in Greece for very many years, at least since I worked at an asylum reception, 12 to 13 years ago. The Council of State may be quite right in that it is also practical and administrative difficulties on the Greek side which mean that Norway does not accept anyone this year, but it is now planned for new evacuations to Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Portugal and Switzerland – none to Norway. There is little doubt then that the combination of the low number we are going to pick up, and many complicated criteria for which asylum seekers we are accepting – like families being united – will mean that there will only be more work for an asylum system in Greece that is already lacking capacity. It was just the bureaucracy we were supposed to relieve the Greek authorities. Many of the vulnerable families in Greece are Afghans. However, the government requires asylum seekers to be Syrian citizens, although Norway barely returns people to Afghanistan any longer, fortunately. Last year, 57 of 60 lone minor asylum seekers from Afghanistan were permanently resident, because the country is not safe. That is why, together with SV today, we have made a loose proposal to ask the government to ensure that at least 50 asylum seekers are taken from Greece by the year and, if necessary, to extend the Norwegian criteria to all lone minor asylum seekers and sick children and their core families, without any other restrictions. Unfortunately, the presentation of the proposal was delayed, but it is up to Stortingen to consider whether the proposal should nevertheless be put up for voting. The proposal will be voted on if it is majority in favour. I hope so, because the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3560	With regard to the treatment of people as refugees, and the situation in and around the Mediterranean, we see both a trifle and a cynicism from the government and several of the parties in the Stortinget. With our decision, that we should sit on the fence and wait until eight or ten other countries do something, before we take responsibility ourselves, we were at the bottom of it. Then we got a new base when the government in September, while the Moria camp was still burning, said the government would accept a maximum of 50. One of the world's richest countries was to take responsibility for only 50 of the tens of thousands of people fleeing wars, conflicts and states that have been destroyed by warfare to which Norway itself has contributed. Now we see that the criteria set up in September have resulted in none of the Moria camp refugees coming to Norway as of today, due to the criteria. It seems that the government is satisfied with the strategy they have set up, because it allows them to speak with two tongues and say that on the one hand it is not on the Norwegian government to get the refugees here, and at the same time they have made such strict criteria and demands that it is in practice impossible to get some of the refugees to the country. Thus they can self-pleasure to their hands. A similar strategy has also been put in place in relation to the reception of quota refugees – they should be Christians, because then they seem to be easier to integrate. This way of dividing people into dignified and unworthy categories based on religion, and making hierarchies of people, does not belong in a democracy. It's not compatible with the values on which our society is built. It's not, in our view, what's good, Norwegian values. We will warn against the path that the government has taken, and we will encourage everyone who shares the concerns of Red, to do what they can to show that we stand for something different and better than the current policy. People have done the same. Ever since the beginning, people around the world have protested against this policy. There's been a lot of commitment all over the country. Cities such as Bodø, Bergen, Oslo, Moss, Stavanger, Trondheim and Tromsø have said that they can receive at least as many individually as the government will accept together. More than 100 municipalities say they're ready to accept at least 800 refugees. It was therefore Red in the autumn that the Stortinget proposed that the government be required as an immediate urgent measure to receive as many refugees as the municipalities report that they have the capacity and wish to receive. When that proposal is put to the vote today, it is sad to say that the majority is so in favour of the Norwegian population on this issue. Red has always stood for a more solidarity policy. We have repeatedly made proposals in Stortinget about a handshake to Greece to receive more people who are now suffering in the camps in Greek islands. In our alternative budget, we are also in favour of Norway accepting 5 000 quota refugees and, in addition to the quota system, receiving 1 500 refugees from the camps in Italy and Greece, without going beyond the aid budget, which the government is allowing it to do in its budget. Such efforts will not be made by the government of the world's richest country, nor by the majority of the population. There's reason to be upset about it. But there is also reason to be hopeful, because we have seen a great commitment to the refugees from Moria all over our country throughout the year that has been. It gives us hope that in the longer term, perhaps after the next elections, we will have a policy that is more in line with the values the majority stands for when they ask the government to set up more. Norway is a more inclusive and inclusive society than the government parties and the majority of the population now both believe and base their policies. We're going to make sure that they get noticed. We're going to build on a people's movement for solidarity and do what we can for people on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3581	The fire in the Greek host Moria upset us all. Pictures of children sleeping on the open street do hurt. I understand that the relocalisation of 50 asylum seekers seems to be a small response to this, but Norway’s response is much more extensive and benefits many more. The weaknesses of the Greek asylum system are due to structural challenges. Neither the reception system nor the asylum procedure in Greece is improved by relocalisation to other European countries. Relocalisation is a short-term measure that reaches a minority of asylum seekers. For the majority, who remain, and for those who are seeking protection in Greece in the future, we must enable the country to discharge its responsibilities properly. It requires long-term action, and it requires action. Here is Norway in the front row. Norway has for a long time provided extensive assistance to develop Greek migration management. I presented this effort in the Stortinge during the debate on 26 May on Innst. 298 S for 2019-2020. I don't want to spend any more time here now deepening this. Norway also provides assistance when there is an acute need. That is why we decided to relocate asylum seekers from Greece. We also rushed a medical team after the fire in Moria. It is only part of the total and ongoing assistance provided by Greece by Norway. Greece today has a much better asylum system than 10 years ago. Therefore, based on the Council of the European Commission, Norway resumed the Dublin transfer to Greece in 2017. The situation in Greece does not mean that there is a need to stop this now. The government's goal is to achieve as much as possible with the help we give, both now and in the future. This is what we believe we are achieving with the policy we are pursuing today. The government’s decision to relocate 50 asylum seekers from Greece is therefore firm. The same applies to the decision that these will be counted against the number of transfer refugees that we accept. The fact that several municipalities have free settlement capacity does not affect the number we relocate. Norway accepts a large number of transfer refugees, both in the year and next. We also have people in reception waiting for housing. It is therefore important that we have available housing capacity. The government's priority is to receive transfer refugees. They are not yet in safe countries, as asylum seekers in Greece do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3604	When the Committee was to examine Norway’s efforts for Greece before the summer, the Council of State asked for a little more time to come up with a proposal that we could agree on. What we saw was that you couldn't present anything to the committee. There was a proposal in 12 hours, just before we were going to deal with the matter, and on the same morning that the proposal came as a loose proposal in the Chamber, the Right-wing immigration spokesperson was not really familiar with the proposal. I have now recognised that there is no willingness to accept more than 50 asylum seekers from Greece. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that more people could have been accepted with protection needs, but I note that this is not the government's political will. But at least I think the government must be able to give the Storting a clear feedback on when the withdrawal of these 50 people is going to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3611	I necessarily disagree with the premises of the representative's question, and I have never understood what is the Labour Party's policy in this matter. We're not going to be able to receive 3,000 quota refugees this year, so the Workers' Party is increasing the number to 3,500 quota refugees. Get it, whoever can. I must also stress that when it has been claimed that we have been evil and difficult with regard to our relationship with Greece, that is not true. We've been very active, we've done a lot to help them with asylum treatment, and we're doing a lot on technical equipment, on health professionals, etc. We've also been active with the authorities in order to pick up the 50. So it hasn't been on us. I would also like to say to our ambassador last week – since some people live in the error that Norway has been so very difficult with whom we have pointed – that because of a difficult situation, the Greek authorities regret that they are, of course, anxious to assist us. But we hope we get the 50 as fast as possible. It's not on us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3620	As the Minister for Immigration probably knows, it is that the number of quota refugees Norway receives goes over a three-year period, for a few years you can reach the number, a few years you may have to repeat. It's like accepting quota refugees. The Labour Party has seen that there are record low asylum arrivals. Then it's in our policy that there's room to increase the number of quota refugees by 500. But what has been done with the government's policy is that the 50 people who have to relocate from Greece have to take the number of quota refugees, that is, the 3,000 government has decided. Doesn't the Council of States think it's unfair at the time we're in, and that you should actually increase your efforts to accept more quota refugees? And the second is, can the Council of State assure the Government that the number of quota refugees that it has not been able to receive this year will continue in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3627	Our main priority is quota refugees. There are not quota refugees in Greece, although the Workers' Party is still using that term. But we hope that the 50 we're picking up are people with protective needs that we can integrate in a good way, and that we don't have to turn people on the border. With regard to quota refugees and our priorities, I am very pleased that this government has greatly increased its efforts in this field in recent years. Norway is the country in the world that receives most quota refugees per capita. That's very good. When we can't reach this year, it's natural to count relocalization – which is something else – into this number, because we're able to pick up many fewer than we had hoped. But now this has solved a lot in the last month. We're able to interview more people, and we're able to grant more applications, and that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3636	Unfortunately, I think the same thing that has happened before is going to happen again. Europe is looking at hasty solutions, some countries are taking initiatives and picking up many, and the result is that the signal effect is sending out even more on a dangerous journey. Now we've heard that it's been hard to get on with the 50s. 50 are not many, and the total number is not going to be affected in Norway. In fact, it must be concluded that this is symbolic, that it is just a turn from quota refugees to some asylum seekers who are not fully aware of the need for it. It's problematic in itself that you choose quite symbolically to agree to take the help from someone who needs it, and give it to someone you don't know about needs it. I honestly wonder if the Council of State can tell why it wouldn't have been just as good to give it the help of quota refugees, as we know it needs, all the time the number shouldn't be affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3641	I agree that relocalisation is not a good solution. That is why I am very surprised at the political debate in Norway, which is so very concerned about relocation. It's not sustainable. It's not long-term. It's not a good solution politically, I mean. I also think it sends the wrong signals, especially when you are so busy telling families of children that they will send their children on their own in a violent journey. I'm very worried about that. But it's the way that we're not able to pick up the number that we had decided for quota refugees today. We have found that we can help someone, and that helps those we help, but we help more people where they are, and therefore our main priority is that we pick up quota refugees, that we help Greece, first and foremost with a migration system, with money, with material and with the help of dealing with a very demanding situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3646	It's almost shocking to hear the Council's answer now. It sounds like she also thinks that the only reason people spend time in flight is that they can be relocated after years of staying in a terrible camp in Greece. Greece is an outermost country. The other countries have closed their borders, and Greece is therefore carrying out the enormous task they now have, which they cannot solve, where the United Nations, Greece and all non-governmental organisations have asked Norway for help. Nevertheless, the Council of State says that this is completely wrong, and many more people want to escape. Does it mean that the Council of State is denying the knowledge and competence of the United Nations in this area and believes that the requests made by the United Nations in this area are not serious and contribute to solving the situation on the ground in a disaster, as it is on the ground in Greece?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3651	Relocalisation is not sustainable. You can't run adhoc policies with people, you have to find good solutions. That is why, unlike the representative's party, I am committed to common European solutions. We are actively working in the EU system to find better solutions. Our main priority – and I understand that we disagree – is quota refugees, which the UN High Commissioner prioritizes, and which we pick up, and which we know have protection needs. I understand that the TV camera is on Moria, but there are many people living in terrible conditions that we pick up and that we relocate. I think we should still do that. Then I'm a little surprised that someone points out that we're now giving priority to families with children. We do, but so did we when SV was in government. We have a clear priority in the quota policy: families with children under 18, which we are very good at living here at home. They're vulnerable families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3660	This was disturbing to hear, I think. It was much more serious, what came from the Council of State now in the lines, than what we used to hear before, also from the post. Relocalisation is not sustainable – of course not, and nobody thinks we should just contribute. But there are some people who are in a camp right now, and who have the status of asylum seekers, and Greek bureaucracy is now kneeling. It has been for very many years, and Norwegian efforts, as the Council of State claims, to help it have failed. That problem is right here and now. We're not doing this because it will in the long run improve the Greek bureaucracy and the ability to handle asylum seekers and applications, but it's because here and now people need help. There are children who need a future, there are parents who need to sleep at night, and there are young people who need trauma treatment and need to start a new life somewhere else. What I miss from the Council of State is at all the principle of human rights and the right to asylum that is at stake here. My question is whether we can expect a different approach to this topic next year – are we going to pick up more than 50?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3667	I am a little uncertain as to whether I have been unclear. I have thoroughly explained how Greece is struggling with its asylum treatment. We agree that these are people who promote asylum applications, they are not doing Greece's job. Then we've contributed, we've done that in the last ten years, to improve the treatment of both money, personnel and competence. And we're going to keep doing that. That is what is long-term; to clarify at an early stage whether or not there are people in need of protection. I guess we'll agree on that. I guess we also agree that the people we are going to pick up from Norway are people with protective needs. It's not a general opening for migrants. That's why our main priority is the UN High Commissioner, it's international camps. It's not just in Moria that people have a terrible hard time. They have it in large parts of the world, and that's why we receive most quota refugees per capita in the world. I think that's good. I think we should keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3672	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3680	In spring, SV took the initiative that Trondheim would open the doors to refugees from Moria. More than 130 municipalities have followed. Perhaps the most important meeting I've had in the last three years is the meeting with Trondheims-jenta Taibeh Abbasi. The Abbasi family has long had the casting ghost hanging over it. I remember very well the phone I got on a Saturday morning in June last summer from the judge of Nidarosdom, who called to tell me that the family was driven away from his apartment at Møllenberg in Trondheim. She called to see if there was anything I could do as a staging representative. Right then I felt powerless, and I thought, "Now it's too late." Luckily, it wasn't too late. There was something I and others could do. A few days after the family was thrown out, they were back in Norway. The draft was cancelled. In the summer, it was celebrated that the young people in the family were finally allowed to stay in Norway. What do I want to tell this story? Well, I'd say it's never too late. It's never too late to show solidarity. It's never too late to show humanity. It is never too late to try to correct the wrong that has been committed. As long as there is humanity, there is hope and opportunity. That's the way it is in the fight for the refugees from the Moria camp. This morning I was in contact with Katrin Gladz Brubakk. Katrin's on Lesvo's for Legs Without Borders. She wrote: It is quite reassuring that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have all said that they will contribute to the evacuation, but they all have their variants of how this is to be done. It prevents something from happening. Not only does it last endlessly, and their proposal is voted down, but I see children, she said, who have become considerably worse after the fire in the fall. If Norway had picked up earlier this year, these kids would have been spared for these conditions. It was the message from Katrin Gladz Brubakk, who is at Lésvos right now. We've seen a huge commitment this year to the refugees from Moria. Therefore, we will make an insistent prayer to the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Workers' Party and the Center Party: help ensure that we quickly evacuate at least the 50 that the government has promised to evacuate before Christmas. Remember, it's never too late to show solidarity and humanity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3697	The Council's answers in these matters really make me worried. SV is for quota refugees. We are proposing to accept 5,000 quota refugees, as requested by the United Nations. It's because many people don't have security in the camps, but it's not because it's not safe. A lot of these refugee camps are in safe countries, so that's not what matters, but they need to be settled, and they're not safe in refugee camps. The UN also urges us to relieve Greece, because Greece is on its knees. They don't have the asylum system in order. They're in economic ruin. They've had to cut social benefits for their people, and it's becoming a terrible political climate in Greece, where the right-wing extreme forces are winning. It's possible that's what the government wants, but what happens is dangerous -- it's dangerous. SV wants pan-European solutions. The state councils later pretend it's the government that wants it. We have proposed it several times in Stortinget, and it has been voted down by the government parties. We have explicitly asked the government to take initiatives to find pan-European solutions, to renegotiate the Dublin Convention. No one has said that the relocalisation of refugees from Greece is going to solve the refugee and asylum problem. It is about relieving a European country in a very acute crisis situation and avoiding a humanitarian crisis on the ground in Europe. That's what this is about. And it's about showing the will that we're going to solve these problems together, not sit on the sideline and count-- is it maybe eight, is it ten that's doing it in front of us, maybe we'll do a little bit? Several other countries have managed to evacuate, that is not impossible. The government has been waiting too long. The government has subdued. The government has set such criteria that they know they are not given priority. This case is really a shame, not because it would have solved everything if we had got a majority in favour of the proposal that the Green Party and the UK are promoting today. No, no one has claimed. But it had shown that Norway had been on the right side in these cases. It had shown Norway as a leading country for humanitarian cooperation in Europe – extending a hand to the Greek population too, which is now tired and angry. They can't do it anymore. I'm very disappointed with the majority in this room. Norway can do better than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3710	I think we got good information from the Council of State, which can be good in the field and shows that you have a good view of how these things relate. It is quite clear to those who know this field, that the type of relocation gives wrong signals, and it is not sustainable. I think you should look for someone who knows this field for a long time, who thinks these are good solutions – because you have experience. It makes me a little upset that we have representatives here who are trying to make this a struggle between good and evil, or that this is about who is solidarity and not solidarity. We haven't heard one representative or one party in this room who doesn't want to remedy the situation, who doesn't want to do the very best for the people who need it the most, but we have different solutions and approaches to the different problems. And so it's pretty clear that some parties here have solutions that could relieve the situation in a much better way, save more lives and give effective help to a lot more people. But because someone in this room has decided that it's not a solidarity, you start to draw pictures of maybe some people want the right extreme forces on the front of Greece. It's going far beyond all reasonable limits. I might think that the parties that adopt such attitudes should look a little bit in the mirror and see what they themselves are doing and contribute to, because if that's what experience suggests, the situation got worse the previous times we've tried to help in this way. The aid that is produced as the only solidarity has proved to work against its purpose and make it worse. It is good for those people who may come to Norway, but it is not good if even more people are lured into a dangerous journey and end up in suffering, drowning or inhumane conditions either in the camps around or in criminal gangs' claws. That's what's happening. When we picked up in 2016 and 2017, along with many other countries, the flow to Greece increased by 70 pst. immediately afterwards. Then I think you should have little respect for other people's approaches and other points of view in such a difficult matter, and not paint a scare image of right-wing extremities or people who are not solidarity or think of other people – when you promote solutions that could actually have helped, rather than symbol politics just to present yourself as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3721	There is possibly some of us are a little less black-and-white in the way we manage both debate and difficult ethical situations. I have no problem understanding that everyone in this room wants to do well, but I think that Norwegian policy has begun to deviate from some very basic principles: loyalty to rights that have long been very central in Europe. I don't think it's just Norway, I think it's more countries. Right now, Norway is in quite a bad position in this case because we have chosen to look at ourselves as a country of the past that this time would not contribute until many other countries had done so first. That made us come out late. This means that one has somehow shifted the centre of gravity of where one agrees with the policy on such serious issues. I can't help it when the council says she's actually against relocalization, because it's not sustainable. Well, first of all, none of us have thought that there is a sustainable system Europe has now. I am the first to be able to stand in front of the Storting and act against the way Europe is now dealing with the refugee crisis in the world, with the Turkey-EU agreement that will stop the refugees and other migrants in Greece or in Turkey. This means that it is in the process of relocation, which is the way Norway can contribute to the effective handling of these applications, that Europe can join forces and take responsibility for the refugees and migrants who come to Europe, because we can send money, we can send advice to Greece. But it's a system that's so knee-drenched that just accepting the advice requires a lot of capacity. It is a civil society that is under intense pressure, and it makes no sense that we should sit here and have a lot of capacity – Norwegian municipalities are ready to accept families with children, young adults and lonely people who need to deal with their asylum application – and not do so. The reason why this is incomprehensible to me is that I have grown up with principles and rights meaning something, that the individual rights on which Europe is based mean something. The system fails, but there are people here who have the right to individual treatment of their asylum application, who do not get it now. That the Council of State believes that Greece is safe makes me ask questions: Who is it that is safe? Are the children in Moria, who don't get education, who live without proper protection, not having adults – many of them – who can take care of their kids because adults can't sleep at night either? Or are there women who have been given residence in Greece, but no longer get a single crown in support, because it has stopped Greek authorities? You don't get any social support when you get to stay and live on the street – is she safe? It is a system that is so under pressure, because they are at the outer border of Europe, which Norway is not, that just sending help and advice will no longer last.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3732	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3737	It is true that Norway has given a lot of money to Greece. We've got a lot of them back, too, but that doesn't mean that the system there is good or works in any way. That's the problem. That it's going to be good – yes, fine, but it's not like that. It makes no sense to believe that the relocalisation of refugees in Europe has led to more refugees in the world. It's not that. I demand some respect for the people who are in such a refugee situation, that's who we're talking about. We're discussing this as if it's just us seas, but it's about people who are in a refugee situation, and whether to close the boundaries and not fulfill the rights they actually have. If you think that people in the world – who are not peaceful – shouldn't get into trouble with human traffickers, you have to do it legally to travel. That is the problem today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3763	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3770	We will deal with the temporary law on adaptation in the Integration Act to remedy the consequences of outbreaks of covid-19 and the law on changes in the Swedish Law on Higher Education, the Law on Kindergarten and Adult Education, etc.– transitional rules in the Kindergarten Act. This matter is about two themes. So the first one is about the law of integration. The temporary law provides essentially the same adaptations to the law on integration as the temporary law on adaptations to the law on introduction. The Act on Integration enters into force on 1 January 2021 and then replaces the Act on Introduction. The transitional arrangements will make the first years a group of participants following the Introduction Act and another group following the Introduction Act. The temporary provisions of the Introduction Act will therefore not apply to those covered by the new Act. The Committee therefore agrees that there is a need for a corresponding adjustment thereafter. The Committee has also noted that the main features of Norwegian training schemes in the reception, introduction, introduction and training of Norwegian and social subjects are the same in the Introduction Act and the Integration Act, and the limitations in the society of infectious diseases are of the same importance for the implementation and organisation of the schemes under the two laws. The second aspect of the proposal concerns proposals under the Children's Homes Act. There is a clarification of the provisions allowing the Ministry to lay down transitional rules for the establishment of a national financial supervision for private kindergartens. In addition, legislative changes are made to the current paragraph 16(a), which was not lifted in Prop by an incurrency. 96 L for 2019-2020. The Ministry has pointed out in its letter of 27 November 2020 that § 14a of the Kinderhagen Act should be repealed for the same reason and that it will ensure a legally sound law. That has been taken into account by the Committee. It is a unanimous committee that supports the vote's recommendation in terms of A and B. Then the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have promoted a separate proposal for recommendation under C, and I expect them to explain that for themselves. I would like to say on behalf of the Right that we have chosen not to support the proposal under C, but have confidence that the government will continuously consider measures to ensure financial compensation for those municipalities where there is a need for it. With that, I would recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3787	I would like to comment on part of the proposal for a recommendation. There is unanimous agreement on the temporary law, but what the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV are concerned about is that the government assumes that there will be no costs associated with this, but it does KS. That is why we do not have the same calm as the rapporteur in saying that this is going to compensate the government in any case. We believe that the principle is to compensate for the increased costs associated with covid-19 and infection management by the municipal sector or individual municipalities, that it should be fully compensated by the country. That is why we believe that individual assessments from individual municipalities also need to be made, because this is not necessarily the same in all municipalities. Therefore, we believe that the government should return to the Stortinget with proposals for full compensation to municipalities that have increased costs associated with the temporary amendments to the law of introduction or the law of integration, if total or partial closure of society occurs again during the period of validity of the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3794	We have put forward two legislative proposals in the proposal, one proposal for a temporary law on adaptations to the law on integration and one proposal for amendments to the law on childcare. The size has previously adopted a temporary law on adaptations to the Introduction Act, in order to ensure flexibility and the exercise of the rights of participants in periods of outbreak of covid-19. In the light of the unforeseeable infectiveness situation, the law is extended until 1 July 2021. The new Integration Act enters into force on 1 January 2021 and regulates the same arrangements as the Introduction Act. For a period, there will be participants in the schemes under both new and old legislation. Since the arrangements are the same, I believe that there is a need for adjustments in both legislation. I therefore propose a temporary law on adaptations to the law on integration, which will last until 1 July 2021. In order to provide a stable framework for the municipalities and the participants, I propose to provide the same adaptations to the law of integration as to the law of introduction. I suggest some adjustments to reflect the new law, including: new obligations of the county. I hope and believe that these temporary adaptations can help ensure that the good work done to date can continue in the transition to the new law of integration. When it comes to the question of compensation for the municipalities, I just want to comment briefly. Under this pandemic, the government has always been clear that local government expenditure related to covid-19 is to be compensated, but we have not done so by going to the sector or service sector and directly calculating grants for each municipality for all the different services, and whether they go in plus or minus on different services. It would have been incredibly bureaucratic, it would have taken a lot of work, and it leaves very little room for action to the municipalities. This is why a working group has been set up to calculate the total costs of the municipal sector as part of the pandemic and to provide appropriations in line with it. In addition, the county also has discretionary funds that can be distributed to municipalities that have exceptional expenditure. We believe that this will be sufficient to ensure that a good offer is maintained, including through the Integration Act. The proposal also proposes clarification and technical amendments to the Kindergarten Act. These are only minor adjustments to the amendments to the Kindergarten Act adopted by the Stortinget in June this year. Through Prop. Among other things, 96 L. defined changes to the Kindergarten Act, including provisions for a new national financial supervision for private kindergartens. It has not been decided when the national supervisory authority takes over the task and as indicated in Prop. 96 L, the current rules on supervision will continue until the new national supervision is established. The Kindergarten Act allows such transitional rules to be laid down. I propose to clarify the regulatory body on transitional provisions. We do so in order to make it even clearer what provisions on supervision will continue in regulation until the new national economic supervision enters into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3818	There is still considerable concern in the municipal sector about compensation for corona-related expenditure. The Council of State says very clearly in its statement that here one has no intention of counting on what the individual municipality is really losing, not on the sector, but taking it at the overall level, and that it should kind of be a municipal freedom. It's a little bit hard to understand. I have been in contact with both the County and a lot of municipalities in my own county, who say that there are a lot of the costs that are not now covered, precisely because you only concentrate on the municipalities that have the most expenses. This means that all the municipalities that have less expenditure, but are nevertheless burdensome in this situation, are not satisfied. Is it so to understand now that the government has gone away from the principle of paying for corona-related expenditure in the municipalities, that it should only be at some kind of general, approximate level, or is it such that the municipalities should actually cover their expenses?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3825	I'm going to be a little careful to respond to things that are moving outside my constitutional area, which is the district minister's area, but the principle of expenditure being covered has always been a clear principle on the part of the government. That is also the principle we have followed when we have compensated municipalities and county municipalities by well over 30 billion in 2020. kr. It has always been this way that we have looked at the municipal economy as a whole. The working group there, for example: KS has been represented, has done it. It would be very challenging to go through the municipality by municipality, every single sector, every single service, and figure out where they went to plus and minus. If you were to do that, I also think it would be the case that municipalities that have not had the expenses they tend to have had to repay, because they have reduced expenses. Now it is also the case that municipalities receive integration grants. This grant covers more than the expenditure incurred by municipalities, so it should be a service that is well compensated initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-07.ana.ud73e3830	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
