ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e127	The President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during this meeting, for necessary infectious diseases. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives Bente Stein Mathisen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Anette Trettebergstien, Solfrid Lerbrück, Arild Grande and Freddy André practice yard, which has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of Oslo, Camilla Strandskog, resumes its seat. The called alternate of Oslo, Tina Shagufta Munir Kornmo, now takes the seat. The Workers' Group has been informed of the withdrawal of the licence granted to the representative Else-May Norderhus in the period 23 March and until further notice. – This message is taken into account. The President has reason to believe that this will be a very short meeting and asks the representatives to be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e183	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal? – It is then deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e190	The Presidency shall promote proposals for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting and the Presidency shall propose the adoption by the Stortinget of a new Paragraph 50(a) concerning the handling of communications by the Government on regulations laid down by the King. On Wednesday last week, the government proposed a temporary law on statutory homes to remedy the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak – a law called the Korona Act. In the decision of the Special Committee to deal with specific issues relating to the coronary crisis, several amendments were made to the bill, and on Saturday Stortinget carried out the first reading of the law. Today, the Storting treats the law for the second time. The law will then enter into force as soon as it is sanctioned by the King. The law contains a regulatory helmet in which the King may supplement, supplement or derogate from provisions of detailed laws as far as is necessary to fulfil the purpose of the law. The provisions of this Act shall be notified in writing without delay after publication. Where representatives of the Grand Duchy who together represent at least one third of the members of the Grand Duchy cannot support a specific regulation, or parts of the regulation, and express this in writing in accordance with the agreed working arrangements of the Grand Duchy, the King shall immediately abolish the provisions in question. In order for the control mechanism described in the law to operate in practice, the Storting must establish procedures for the receipt of notices, for the publication of notices and for how non-support of a regulation can be expressed in writing and communicated to the Government. The Korona Act has provided for the possibility of rapid action by grossing-up representatives. A written procedure is therefore set up to enable the Prime Minister's office to give notice through a letter to the Presidentship of the Stortinge immediately after publication of the regulation. In this case, the government's obligation to notify the Stortinget of the prescribed regulations will be fulfilled when the government's letter is received by the Presidentship of the Stortinget on behalf of the Stortinget. It is proposed that the Presidentship of the Storting should then immediately pass the communication on to the knowledge of each representative in an appropriate manner. Electronic communications will be almost without exception the most practical, and it is assumed that this will be the general rule. In addition, it is proposed that the message be referred in an ordinary manner at the next major meeting. It is proposed that non-support for a regulation or part of a regulation laid down in accordance with the Korona Act be expressed in writing to the Presidentship of the Stortinge, who shall immediately notify the Government thereof. In practice, coordination among representatives will have to take place within the party groups. It is therefore considered that the batch groups may make a written declaration of non-support on behalf of their batch group, where appropriate by each representative, if he is not a member of a batch group. It is hereby assumed that the batches are satisfied that they have the power to make a declaration on behalf of the representatives of their group. Furthermore, it is assumed that information will be disclosed separately if one or more representatives of the group are unable to support the statement. Once the Presidency has received a statement representing at least one third of the representatives, the Presidency must immediately register it and send a written notification thereof to the Government. Under Section 5 of the Korona Act, the Government shall immediately repeal the relevant provisions. When extended powers are conferred on the government by the Powers Act, this must be balanced with strong minority rights in the Storting. It is for the Presidency of the European Parliament to consider that this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure takes account of the need for a rapid procedure in the Stortinget so that these minority rights in the Korona Act can be exercised in line with the conditions laid down in the Stortinget Act. I therefore recommend the vote with the proposals that have been put forward there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e209	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Case No. 2–9 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e305	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e313	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e360	Case No. 2–9 is the second reading of laws and applies to legislative decisions 55 to 62. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-03-24.ana.ud412e376	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
