ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e52	For the sake of infection, the President would like the public gallery to be held closed even during the meeting today. - It's a note. Before the matters in the meeting card are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e70	At the request of the Committee, the president will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Red Party 5 minutes. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e77	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. The events of the past few months have brutally shown how close we are to good and bad, and how crucial it is that we manage to get a coordinated response when the crisis strikes. We can temporarily close borders. We can temporarily isolate ourselves, but in the long run we do not get away with the fact that a global pandemic, and not least its aftermath, is something that the nation states have to deal with together. There is a lot to say about the crisis response itself, but it is very interesting to follow up on the discussions that are taking place at EU level about how the European economy should be repatriated when the pandemic one day, hopefully not too far ahead, is a closed stage. What do they think? What does it mean for Norway, both directly through decisions that may become EEA-relevant, and more indirectly through how our main export markets work? A very clear signal, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out in his speech, is that the pandemic does not rock the basic idea of a new green give for Europe. It has been encouraging to see how the recognition of the need to convert Western economies into green has marked the debate and arrangement of the economic reconstruction package. I try to add that they have shown a ability to keep focus on the long-term risk of not transforming economics and business, which we could have learned from here at home. This also has a geopolitical dimension that is important for Norway, there is no doubt about it. There are different opinions about what kind of association Norway should have with the EU, but I think most people will agree that what the world looks like right now is in our interest that Europe has a strong position to defend multilateral cooperation and a rule-based world order. Then we just have to hope that the result of the American election will give us a quick and clear line break from our great ally in the west as well. In any case, the EU positioning and ambition for a shift in the economy will mean a great deal for the future opportunities for Norwegian business. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs says this is something that the entire government is concerned about. I would like to take this opportunity today, from here, to say that Norwegian positions and Norwegian contributions to the implementation of a new green gift are something that the entire political environment should be involved in. I think it might be a lot to pick up on also involving the Storting in that work. I have colleagues here in the Chamber who are going to say more about some of the concerns we have in that way. It is not the first time the EU is going to work out of a crisis. The greenness of the recovery process is important. For it to carry, it is essential that it also becomes fair. On the way out of the financial crisis, the idea of EU social arrows was revitalised. Most people were hit hard. It was recognised that the EU must be an inclusive project that promises ordinary people. The four freedoms must be followed by rights. One of the uplifting things that happened was that for the first time we saw the outlines of a tripartite dialogue at European level. I'm concerned that pandemic management should push issues like inequality, poverty and social dumping down the priority list again. Although Norway is not a member, this is something we should say clearly, because it is important for us too. The EEA Agreement is our main trade agreement and crucial for the Norwegian economy. Support for that agreement is challenged by the consequences of labour immigration in a number of sectors. This is nothing new, but it was my hope that the revitalisation of the social pillar would also give a greater room for action against social dumping. Now we see that the Oslo model and the Ski model are being challenged. There is no formal case against Norway, but ESA has not yet concluded. If these models fall, there will be a major setback in the fight against social dumping, and it will make the defence of the EEA Agreement more difficult to deal with some workers who wear shoes. Therefore, it is important for me to say that the development of case law does not take place in a political vacuum. The seriousness must also be communicated at political level in our discussions with the EU. It is not only about this issue, but also about the need for a political space to safeguard the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e98	You have to listen to self-crust, because it comes from the heart, said philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer. I guess it was a joke for both of the ministers who told us about the Storting two days ago. I was unfortunately not very impressed, but it is not really me the government should impress, either. Norwegian politicians are elected by the Norwegian people. They shall represent Norway's interests and should be the main focus, including those of the ministers who made the presentation. But I didn't see that. This does not mean that you cannot take care of foreign policy without what you do is in Norway’s interest in much and little, but that must be the starting point for everything you do out there. And that does not happen, unfortunately, for Norwegian foreign policy. In my post I will be the voice that speaks countercurrently. I could have sat quietly in the boat and joined the consensus, but I do not want to. I want to be the spokesperson for those who don't get their voice heard other than in posts in social media. I will build up my arguments from below and up, not from above and down. I will listen, not teach, and certainly provoke. Climate researchers are not a protected title but a high-growth profession. Yesterday, for example, climate scientist Erik Kolstad announced on TV 2 that it will be good skiing for the winter. I'm looking forward to long ski tours. Climate change, the new land scourge, climate action to save the earth from certain death – we need to be transformed, reorganised, redirected, we need to change our lifestyle, remove ourselves from the safe, good life, create new communities. It must be done with financial coercion, with taxes and charges, restrictions, bans, restrictions and subsidies for the good cause. We're going to create profitable, green jobs. It's necessary. It's urgent. The intellectuals, the best, the academies and the greenest -- yeah, they may always be in the way of life the greenest. But they only do it in words, they don't live like this themselves. They claim to have science on their side. Then you don't have to understand or explain, it's just like that. And all of this to avoid something that lies either in the near or distant future, a floating goal. The most gloomy predictions have expired; they did not occur. It is safest to look far into the future – the evening post climate expert Mathismo says now, he said something else before – several decades ahead, when most of us lie «six feet underground», as the Americans would say. In fact, God-led dramatic climate change has occurred in the past. But today it is the people who have replaced the gods. We'd rather not say a pipe. Then we become unprofessional and populist climate negators – nothing particularly to have on the CV. We're going to applaud creativity. The Oslo Center has been destroyed for the good cause. Now the neighborhoods are out of luck. The car is going away, everyone is going to ride a bike. Young and old will bike, grandma and the high-gravity. The earth is burning. But there are some voices that warn against the horror propaganda, among other things. Secretary-General Petteri Talas of the World Meteorological Organisation WMO, who warns against an alarming media coverage of climate change that has been traced off. The media are spreading unjustified anxiety. He ignores the sign «climate researcher in work, must not be disturbed». The prophets of Judgment have good living conditions, jobs are in line – subsidized, of course. The same thing happens to 500 prominent researchers and leading academics, and they also warn. Letters to the Secretary-General of the United Nations warn against the enormous human consequences. They are asking for more votes in the debate. Well, I'm such a voice. But usually these voices don't escape, no matter how scientifically and factually they argue. They are by definition ignorant and ignorant egoists. They don't even see what others see, they look out of the window, and they don't see the climate of the earth – despite the fact that the emperor has great, subsidized clothes. Well, here I am at least small. I'm not going to, at least I've got a job for the next fall. Then it may be that all the grievances have disappeared. Then there will be a fight about who has the most willingness to save the Earth – with the money of others, of course. It'll be very pleasant. Why do I mention all of this? Because politicians never go into the premise of the debate, never present the variables, never counter-representatives – only the measures and how irrevocable everyone is, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment repeatedly emphasises the beautiful and costly climate cooperation with the EU, and because one cannot save the planet alone. We must have support from the EU, or we must join in on the 'green give', as the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that today’s pandemic – now I am moving on to another topic – has led to a greater desire and need for European cohesion. Is it really? In this case, it is surprising that the first measure taken by the national authorities was to close the borders, and most European borders are still closed. European cooperation? It's an unsubstantiated claim. What the corona pandemic has actually shown is that the nation state is the best tool to slow down the spread of a pandemic. Neither in the case of vaccines is European solidarity strong. Action is being discussed to make us less vulnerable to the world, but what lies in this is unclear. Perhaps there is also a breach of the idea of free trade. During the same period, Norwegian authorities have had their own national measures, not European measures, and freedoms of all kinds have been restricted. The restrictions put in place have widened. Enterprises in different sectors have lost demand for their goods and services, and many are now threatened with bankruptcy. Most people lose their jobs. Some industries are more vulnerable than others. When national solidarity is demanding, it is somewhat naive to believe that common solidarity will prevail in all Member States at the same time. The lesson we have to draw anyway, is that it's about keeping the heart warm, but at the same time keeping our heads cold. Then our focus should be national, not European. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was otherwise in several areas of interest. Among other things, she mentioned: the EDF, the European Defence Fund, where Norway has the possibility to participate. In its statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that Norway supports the development of European defence cooperation and considers joining later. It's passive, and it's not possible either. That's when the door is open. It will eventually close. This is because the project is under way, R & D is under way and defence systems and technology areas are defined. Here Norway has the opportunity to finally participate in an EU project that will benefit Norwegian high technology and subcontractors directly. She says no. We can't afford, claims the Secretary of Defense, despite the fact that the two billion you want to spend over seven years is a cost to the acquisition of income. In other words, there will be more in a technological development for advanced systems in all Norwegian high technology. Excuse me, President, but the government's rejection of the project is the purest nonsense. If Norway can afford to use 7 billion. kr for carbon capture through the Langskip project – some claim the final bill could be as high as 25 billion. kr – there is something fundamentally wrong with the government’s use of taxpayers’ money. The trade agreement with the United Kingdom – which is now taking shape – is positive. Norway has a long and close relationship with the United Kingdom, and Brexit should be able to strengthen these links. I choose to be more optimistic than the Minister for Foreign Affairs and believe that a free trade agreement with the UK will have greater opportunities than what we have seen with the UK within the EU. We should also consider in the long term including Canada and the United States in such an agreement. Our four countries will total 450 million people, which is the same as in the EU, but at the same time we will have more combined purchasing power. Norway should not play an active role in instructing Hungary and Poland on the rule of law. Norway would like to follow closely, as the Foreign Minister expressed it, but that does not mean that we should not give Poland and Hungary the opportunity to rule their own countries based on the premise of democracy. That we may not like legal decisions, which insofar as I do not, does not mean that it is our job to punish these countries for this. What the EU chooses to do does not concern us, but I note that Slovenia also now supports Poland and Hungary in their refusal to sign the EU budget, precisely because the EU imposes non-budget requirements. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentioned migration in his presentation and referred to three EU principles, an overall approach. First, screening and rapid procedure at the outer limits. That's positive, I guess most people would think so. Secondly, the distribution of asylum seekers in the form of a mandatory solidarity mechanism. Thirdly, to strengthen cooperation with countries of origin, so that fewer journeys are made, and to return them as though travelling without the need for protection. I would assume that we can all agree – I would assume – on items 1 and 3, but item 2 must under no circumstances become Norwegian policy. Norway is a sovereign and independent country. We are not members of the European Union, nor should we act as if we are, no matter how tempting some might think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e136	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an investigation into many issues affecting Norway’s relationship with the EU. The review was thorough, but also had the mark of being an unreserved tribute to the EU. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that the pandemic we are now in has shown the importance of international cooperation and cross-border solutions. The centre party is committed to working well with Europe, but we believe that the EU is the wrong response to the challenges we face. The center part means the picture the government is drawing, is a little nuanced. We also believe that cooperation in Europe is important, for example. in the field of vaccines, but these are things that we could have cooperated on even without being so closely linked to the EU. Among other things, we remember: that the EU lacked a coordinated preparedness plan to tackle a global pandemic. And where the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentions national solutions with a negative undertone, the Central Party believes that the national solutions, the nation state, and that Norway is addressing challenges with a national starting point, are both an important and a fundamental task for the state. We note that the Foreign Minister spoke of European sovereignty and strategic autonomy as concepts that are increasingly used in trade and economics. She pointed out, among other things: that the EU wants measures to prevent foreign companies from accessing the European market without complying with EU competition rules, and that the EU is discussing measures to make itself less vulnerable to the outside world, inter alia. by making themselves less dependent on producers from third countries. She used, among other things, access to raw materials for the pharmaceutical industry and battery production as an example. This is called in good Norwegian preparedness and standing up for your own interests. There's something the Center Party often calls for in national contexts, and often we are accused of protectionism when we do it. The Central Party takes note of the paradox that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now encouraging this kind of thinking, that the EU has got its eyes up to think this way in the light of the pandemic, and that she seems to think that thinking about preparedness and interests is entirely right within the framework of the EU, but not within the framework of the national state. The Central Party is also concerned that the development of so-called strategic autonomy in the EU and the EU's defence parallel race will challenge NATO cooperation. The centre party is critical of that development, and we believe that weakening NATO will be a major disadvantage to our security. We remember that we are still dependent on the United States and the United Kingdom as good allies, and none of them are going to join the EU with the first. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence deals with the long-term defence plan, with a question of membership of the European Defence Fund. The government has said that they do not support participation now, but the Foreign Minister said in his statement that the government will assess participation in EDF at a later stage. In the course of the proceedings, the Central Party has been concerned that the information in the case, which comes from the government and from various actors with an interest in the defence fund, is fragmented, both related to the costs of participation and where possible it will be possible to join EDF at a later stage. The question is: will it be possible, for example: In 2021, do we have to wait another four years, or do we have to wait even longer if you don't go in before joining now? I'd like to ask the Foreign Minister to elaborate on it more. The central party believes that the government must stand up for Norwegian interests and better protect Norwegian agriculture from EU liberalisation and competition. For example, imports of cheese have increased sharply this year, and we are now importing cheese equivalent to 135 million litres of milk, which equals several hundred dairy farms, which we could have had in Norway. The United Kingdom is about to leave the EU. With this, the EU is changing its size in all ways and the conditions for previous agreements on trade in agricultural products from the EU have changed. The central party is quite clear that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU must lead to a corresponding reduction in the duty-free quotas for agricultural products from the EU. If not, brexit will lead to a direct increase in agricultural imports to Norway if the United Kingdom receives new duty-free quotas – in addition to the EU-wide quotas. The central party expects the government to stand up for Norwegian interests and engage in dialogue with the EU, with the aim of reducing quotas for imports after brexit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e155	It is positive that the government paid so much attention to the climate crisis in the presentations. We are also warm supporters of Norway participating in European cooperation in the field of climate change, where it can help us to achieve our emissions targets more quickly and develop green technology and green industry. However, the big question for many enterprises is whether Norway is following up well enough the opportunities that exist, for example. to participate in financial cooperation that could lead to the development of green food projects, and not least where our own plan is, for there is now a great deal of talk about what is the EU plan. The SV has warned against going too far in coordinating climate policy between Norway and the EU is that it will be a sleep cushion for our own climate policy. I think we see trends of that. The government has spent a terrible amount of time developing its own climate plan to achieve our own climate targets and lies behind many of the projects that we should have used to be ahead of the rest of Europe. There are too few ambitions for carbon capture and storage in the budget submitted. The so-called green crisis package that came earlier this year was very small compared to the one that the fossil industries were given – it was probably about the size of the maintenance set that was made for the National Theatre here in Oslo. We have had a change of oil tax, unfortunately through cooperation between the right hand side and the Workers' Party and the Centre, which now means that climate-damaging and potentially unprofitable projects for the community will still be carried out, while, of course, we should have come much further in our transition towards a greener industrial policy – in the interests of the climate, but also in the interests of our own economic development. There, the presentation shows very well how much ambition there are in many countries, and how important it is that we use the next few years to get the transition going properly in Norway. Otherwise, we're going to be late and losing financially. It is also one of the reasons why SV has warned against one of the mechanisms that exist in our cooperation with the EU, namely the ability to buy us free from our own climate by purchasing climate change in other countries. It's own cuts that drive green technology industry development, so it's so important that we put our own cuts instead of paying other countries to do it for us. I think that the picture of the EU's handling of the coronary ape anemia is a little pink. Firstly, the EU has received a lot of criticism. It has been shown that in a time of crisis, the national states that are taking much control are, and the presentation was little about the economic consequences of the EU's management of the economic crisis. There we will now have a major test of whether the EU has learned from the disastrous management of the financial crisis. I doubt that, because the major political economic problem in Europe today is the failure of the euro zone, which has led to a huge disparity in Europe and major problems particularly for the countries south of Europe, where the combination of large exports and capital from surplus countries, in particular Germany in the years preceding the financial crisis, which blew up bubbles in the countries south of Europe, led to a huge debt crisis. It is still a deep problem to have a single currency without a common economic policy and a common fiscal policy, while it is not possible to have a common economic policy and a common fiscal policy without a major loss of meaning for the national parliament. It's the big EU that's stuck in, and they're not getting out of it. Finally, let me just underline the seriousness of the fact that ESA has opened up the issue of the Oslo model and the Ski model. These are some of the most important tools we have to combat social dumping in Norwegian employment. This is precisely what has been at the heart of the S.V.S. and much of the criticism of the functioning of the EEA Agreement by the trade union movement. It is used to systematically challenge the tools we need to avoid pressure on Norwegian pay and working conditions. It's extremely important that we take up the fight against ESA in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e170	I want to start by thanking our two government councils, which are also here today, for the excellent presentations they made here two days ago. As an old EU member, I must also say that it was delicious to hear the intensity of the Council of State Rotevann described one of our greatest challenges, and at the same time how the EU represents the answer to a lot of this. I was going to start by referring to – as I expect everyone to hear the NRK in the morning – that today there was an element that we hope Sweden will put in a good word for us when the EU is going to distribute the expected covid-19 vaccine. It says in relief the statement that came from the representative of Enger Mehl here a little while ago, that we can only work together then – after standing up for our own interests. With such an attitude, almost self-sufficiency and self-service at the European breakfast table, it should not be surprising that other countries will stand up for their interests first and that those who make up political cooperation in Europe may distribute their vaccines between themselves before looking over the fence to others. Now, because of our close economic integration, we have certain cards on hand, but it is Sweden that is going to speak Norway's case in this area. What if it comes up against the Swedes' own interest to take over as much of these doses as possible? I say this because I think the criticism that was later addressed by the representative Lysbakken when it came to the European Union's poor response to the pandemic is, of course, a criticism that Europe has become too little in the area of health. That's where one has just left the nation states to build on and insist on their own knowledge and stand up for their own interests. It is precisely because we do not have integrated health cooperation in Europe that it took time to see the benefits of it. And then you have to negotiate these structures while the problem is there. I would rather recommend the attitude of the government, and that is that we – as far as possible within our system of European Union – enter into the most political and economic community and cooperate with those closest to us. I also want to comment – the time will not allow more than to address some of the many points that our two government councils have explained – the migration pact, which the representative Tybring-Gjedde also had some points of view. It has been a long time since the Dublin II Regulation has not worked. I haven't been so sure. Norway has basically maintained its distance from the problems and has done what we think we have been morally obliged to. A new migration pact will have several elements in it, and there may have been a little under-communication about what it says and falls with, is that the EU is able to handle border crossings legally. It's absolutely crucial, and that means, among other things, that national Frontal States should be deterred from taking so much of the very treatment of asylum applications. EU-wide offices are to be set up, screenings are to be carried out, and deadlines are to be set for the speed with which asylum applications are to be clarified, precisely to distinguish them from those that are wanted for migration but are not permitted by the refugee law. That's pretty important, because today the return rate is 30, precisely because you can't distinguish between migration and those protected by international refugee conventions. If we are not going to repeat 2015, which caused great unrest in the electoral population, then one of the most stable countries in Europe, and the most important economic, namely Germany, got political cracks that I think should be taken very seriously because the population was not involved. At the same time, there is no human right to migrate from one part of the world to another on the grounds that conditions at home are not good enough. Then you have to be there and build the country and get help for it at state level. Once again, we must reserve the institution of asylum for those who are specifically persecuted, because it is an individual right; it is not a group right. If you do not succeed in distinguishing between migration and refugees and asylum seekers, the rest of the migration pact will be vulnerable even if you seize others. Some of the first-line treatment is also taken and added to other countries if the asylum seeker concerned has had something to do with that country in the past or has a close family who are already in those countries, so that there is no mere burden on the case-handling capacity of the first-line country. There have been very different receptions in the different countries, including among those who are to take their share of the refugees who have to be returned. The risk of return is therefore transferred to the recipient countries in such a system if it is adopted. There was so much about external security, and then I would say a little about internal security and also legal certainty. We see that the EU is now building more and more assumptions into its budgetary policy to help weaker EU countries. What is called soft power is used by not paying out money to countries that fail some of the basic values on which the EU is built, namely the rule of law and democracy. It is precisely in a European cooperation one can have ‘soft power’, because if we now thought that Hungary and Poland were not in the EU, they would be totally immune – they would be galvanized against external criticism and could develop their peculiar form of nationalism, which must be understood partly from historical backgrounds and partly from cultural and religious traditions. But I also see opportunities and improvements in the election results coming from these countries, because they don't want to be entirely in the brink of these values. Fortunately, it is with democracies that the voters gradually come to their senses, even if it takes some time and they have to get some experience. At least they cannot be reformed from the outside, except by using ‘soft power’, using our guidance and, where appropriate, our experience to the extent that they will build on it. Because it is through cooperation and confrontation that we get a real reform policy based on the choice mass of these emerging democracies as well. Then we will get out of it with a stronger Europe, with stronger nation states that are better anchored in our values and democratic principles. I am quite optimistic, in particular, about the fact that we are now also taking a strong step in solving something that cannot be a matter for the nation state, namely the climate crisis. Of course, it is also a national state matter, to the extent that local regulations have to be implemented, but the climate crisis, the European climate crisis, cannot be resolved without a strong European community and strong institutions, and that is what is on the agenda for the future. Others who want to take part in the debate, from the Energy and Environment Committee, will further elaborate this part of the presentations on our part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e198	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to the Minister for Climate and Environment for a good presentation. Thanks also for a clear priority in the presentations. On the left, we will pay tribute to the statements for cooperation, whether it be with the WHO, NATO or the EU. In both this century and the last century, Norwegian foreign policy has focused on solidarity and humanism more than nationalism. I think we're good at that. The world's richest country should be in that position. There are two areas I would like to point out that are also important to include in this debate. I'll start with geopolitics. We have been in a pandemic, and the countries east of us are also important to be involved in the debate – Russia, Belarus. How they deal with this crisis is also important in terms of Norwegian policy and foreign policy. My previous period in the Health Committee reminded me that there are major challenges in the Eastern bloc countries, former Eastern bloc countries, related to health – with many infectious diseases. How they deal with this situation, we know a little bit too little about it. One can see a hope that they are actually involved in vaccine progression. It will be positive in that case, but it remains to be seen. The Arctic is important to mention because it will also affect Norway and our part of Europe. It melts a lot north of us, and we've had a president in the United States who wanted to buy Greenland. Now there's nothing new in American history, but it says something about a struggle for resources. It literally brings up new opportunities north of us, which makes Arctic advice more important and more important in the future. There's China's observer. It's also an actor that becomes more important and important around us. It's for good reason we're talking about Europe and the European continent. We need to assert ourselves and take care of ourselves, and Norway needs to cooperate, especially with other countries in Europe and the EU. It's not like we're alone about it. The EU has a very offensive ‘green deal’, but in the Nordic and Nordic Councils we also have an ambition that the Nordic region as a region should be the greenest and most competitive region in Europe by 2030. We see neighboring countries that are as offensive as we are in the green shift. They have green giants: Fortum, Vattenfall, Ørsted. We have State Power and Equinor. It is important to use these actors, and it is not entirely without reason that Panasonic announced yesterday that they have signed an agreement with Hydro and Equinor to look at battery production in Norway. Beyonder in Stavanger is one of the actors looking at battery production based on wood — wood chips from the forest, not from metals or other elements robbing Africa of its wealth. We need to speed up this development. This is also part of the circular economy, which is important for Europe. Because we don't have much to take off, we need to use the resources we have, more efficiently. In Norway we are well placed in the green shift. We cut emissions for five years in a row. The Minister for Climate and Environment who is now sitting here, Sveinung Rotevatn, will probably be the first to achieve a Norwegian climate and environmental objective during 2020. We've set ourselves the goal of cutting 45 pst. in the non-quota sector, and we are in a good position, in fact, without people noticing all the world about it in everyday life. Of course, it will have to move forward towards 2030, but we have both an economy and a population that is able to join a shift. The pandemic has shown that the Norwegian people have great will to do and also good ability to understand and contribute. Digitalisation is also an important part of the green shift, and Norway is very well located here. We're facing great opportunities. It's green, but it's also an adventure in front of us if we want to use the green possibilities and not just the fossil past.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e217	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment for two interesting and instructive introductions. Norway is a blessed country. And what's our asset? Well, here we have a huge area relative to the population, we have sea areas six times as large as the country, we have a lot of fish, oil and gas, we have a lot of weather, we have electricity, we have stable borders, we have a trained population, we have peace with our neighbours and we have a fairly organized social structure. In addition, we have the world's largest population in polar strata, and at the top we have a huge oil fund, which gives us a buffer against unforeseen events. All of this is our responsibility to manage in a sustainable way – a state that is built laboriously by our ancestors, but is to be left to our grandchildren, who will have faith in the future. On the other hand, we are a small people – 5.4 million – in an open society. We are totally dependent on trade, security alliances and the exchange of common culture and values to maintain and develop our unique welfare society. It complements our needs for goods, food and social security, so that the population can be safe and have a good life. We are dependent on agreements for our modern industry, for our maritime industries and for the safeguarding of the rule of law and the rule of law. For the Christian People's Party, the EEA Agreement has always stood out as the best form of connection to Europe, with which we have been dealing for hundreds of years. Most of our foreign trade, at times 80 pst., has gone through this agreement. If there's someone who's really served well on the EEA Agreement for 26 years, it's the export industry. The EEA Agreement has expanded the Norwegian domestic market by about 5 million inhabitants into a single market – 31 countries with many hundreds of millions of inhabitants – for common benefit and joy. It has ensured jobs, labour and large-scale market access. It is therefore strange that, in parts of the trade movement, of the Centre Party and, in some cases, of the Progress Party, there is a wish for the announcement and negotiation of a new bilateral trade agreement with the outside world. These proposals and options do not appear to be credible to me – yes, they appear incomprehensible, in fact, as rice at the back. There is no professional disagreement that without such market access it would look dark to the Norwegian industry. Moreover, through this agreement, we can precisely implement a common labour policy to combat unorganised social dumping. The EU is currently a spearhead in international climate work – an offensive policy in which we work together by setting high targets to limit greenhouse gas emissions. We're working together on this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the government's ambition is to be an active and relevant partner of the EU in climate policy. We're proud of that. We also want to be a driver of an even more ambitious policy by involving the EU in increasing the level of emissions reduction to 55 pst. towards 2030. Despite the fact that Norway has twice said no to EU membership, it has always had a positive attitude towards European cooperation. Our allies are here too. If Norway had cancelled the EEA Agreement, it would be perceived in the world as sharing Norway’s view of right-wing populist parties in the EU, and we have never done so. Termination of the EEA Agreement would be a breach of Norwegian foreign policy tradition. But the EEA Agreement is not perfect. There are no perfect agreements, because conditions and dynamics always change, for several reasons. It is therefore important and healthy to put a critical searchlight on and carefully assess the directives before they are implemented. The Nav scandal taught us to overtake, where both courts, lawyers, Nav and the department came out crooked. However, there are no trade agreements that can ensure the same benefits better than the current EEA Agreement does. Nor does anyone want Brexit states in Norway, and there is no alternative to the EEA Agreement other than EU membership. It does not want a Christian People's Party. There is also no majority for that in the people. On the other hand, a large majority want to maintain the EEA Agreement without becoming an EU member. The Christian People's Party believes that our present form of association is still the best solution, and it is through which we can best ensure further trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e236	Thank you for your input and input into the debate on the issue of European cooperation in the pandemic in which we stand. We have seen very clearly from the Norwegian side the value of European cooperation. I said in my statement that European solidarity saves lives, and I stand by that. The pandemic has no borders, and we have been told very clearly that the need for solutions does not know national borders either. And it was partly because the national response was not enough, that cooperation between EU countries was intensified. For Norway, it has been important to participate in it, from having as a main strategy that we participate in EU vaccine procurement cooperation, to having sent medical personnel, doctors and nurses, to hospitals in Lombardia to help with the worst situation in Italy. I believe that although of course there are many aspects to the management of the pandemic that are not perfect, or that you might want to do differently when you look back, the main picture is that the cooperation has become closer, and it has also served Norway well. So I'm going to try to answer some of the questions that came, maybe especially related to ESA questions. It is important to be aware that ESA has not opened a case against Norway due to the ski and Oslo models. They have sent a letter with an information request, and there is a significant difference in the two ways of working. Nevertheless, it is important for Norway to stress – and we have also made this very clear – that we believe that the rules we have put in place to improve control of work crime, namely that public acquisitions should limit the number of subcontractors and the number of stages in the supply chain, are both proportional and within the regulatory framework. We have argued strongly for this. ESA has requested information related to the Ski and Oslo models. We have worked closely with both the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Skien to send answers to ESA, as these are the municipal rules. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that, on the EU side, too, there is a great deal of concern about the possibilities of combating labour-life crime, and that the Rail Model has been highlighted as a good example of such an action by the European Commission itself. So I have good hope that there will also be a good exchange of information here that makes us more clearly explain what the models are all about, and how important they are to help fight the crime of working life. Issues related to the European Defence Fund have also been raised. To that it is to say that we do not now see that there seems to be anything legal in the way of a later connection. This is to a large extent out of date all the time the fund is completely new, but I think it is important to underline what was the starting point for Norway, and still it is, that we worked very intensively with the EU countries in order for it to be an access to join the fund through the EEA Agreement. It has been very clear from the EU that the restrictions are strong in allowing third countries, which are then completely outside, but that the EEA Agreement acts as a good entry point for countries like Norway in order to join. On cost issues, it is not entirely clear either, because it is going to be about the long-term budget of the EU, which has not been clarified, and therefore we are also waiting for it. At the end of the day, several questions have been raised. Hungary and Poland. I believe it is important to stress that the EEA Agreement – such as EU cooperation – is based on a set of basic values, standards and rights. That is what is our guiding principle when we work together, and that is what we work with countries in the EU about. The fact that the EU has now for the first time published a report on the state of the rule of law in all EU Member States, I believe is an important and correct step forward. I also believe that when the rule of law and democracy are threatened in allied countries, in close co-operation countries, it is our duty as Europeans, who have joined the same value base, to say clearly from – even if we are outside EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e255	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e261	The Norwegian European debate is sometimes a garbage box where you can throw everything away. In March, a proposal from the Central Party that all EEA funds should be cut for Poland to spend money on hand alcohol at home was read. In an interview, the Centre Party explains that the EEA funds are money that we pay to access the market. But is it not a contribution to economic and social cohesion, including the strengthening of civil society? It would have been nice to clarify it. We have not discussed that proposal in Stortinget, but I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what she thinks about the proposal, and whether she thinks it is hand liquor or human rights in Poland there is the greatest deficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e266	It is quite clear that, through the EEA funds, we contribute to social and economic cohesion in EU countries, and that has been the purpose of the funds all the way. But at the same time, we have safety valves in the means that if countries act contrary to what is the basis of the EEA Agreement and what is the EU's value base, we will also be able to stop funds. We have history of having done so with Hungary earlier, in the previous programming period, when the funds were suspended. To date, we have not agreed with Hungary on the next programming period, because there is no consensus that the Civil Society Fund should be managed independently of the authorities. And we have, as the representative also knows, recently been very clear to Poland that we cannot use EEA funds for municipalities and counties that have declared themselves to be LBHTI non-ideological zones. There have been consequences, such as the fact that programmes and funds have already been withheld.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e271	However, this proposal was about stopping absolutely all funds to Poland on the grounds that we need hand alcohol in Norway. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs was: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that this is a neat proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e276	There may be grounds for stopping funds for Poland in several cases, but not due to trade issues. Then it's because of basic value issues. As I also briefed the European Commission on, we have stopped a judicial programme with Poland under the EEA funds, because there is not enough independence in the courts of Poland. As a result, the Norwegian programme partner, the Court of Justice, wanted to withdraw from the cooperation. I think that is quite legitimate reasons to say no to funds. However, issues of the kind referred to by the representative here, such as: hand alcohol, which was a problem issue in March, but which, as far as I know, is no longer a problem issue, I do not believe qualified to stop EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e281	My question is about the European Defence Fund. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that it is possible to adhere to the law, but unfortunately it is completely irrelevant in this context. The train is actually running, it is now defining eleven technology areas, it is now the Norwegian defence industry that defines its areas of activity and its strategy, and it is now Norway that has to come along. One can't stress it enough. Now I've been working on these issues for many years – the defence industry – and if we're going to have technology development and system development, we have to join these projects now. That's now we have the opportunity to be involved. If we're going to try to participate a little later, that means that the train has gone on technology – other companies have taken those roles. So it doesn't help that the world's richest country isn't there now. It's a scandal. This is something we can earn in the long term, and the defence industry and the defense can benefit from it. Will the Foreign Minister now understand the seriousness and actually change our position? There would have been a fresh breath in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e288	As I said in my post, it is our opinion that there does not seem to be anything in the legal way that you can join. But of course it will have the consequence that several of the programme areas and cooperation will already be under way. Then there is also an assessment of the overall cost picture of EU programmes. We do not yet know that because the long-term budget has not been decided. But we have been working all the time to enable Norway to join and have that opening through the EEA Agreement. It is important because European defence cooperation for Norway has traditionally been important. We also see that it's going to be important in the future. That is one of the reasons why we have been an important contributor to the European Defence Agency. Then I can't avoid a small, interesting connection, namely that the representative Tybring-Gjedde was standing on the platform and told about how the nation state and the national and EU and EEA disagreed with each other, and that the national was the best. Then it is interesting that he wants to be part of the European Defence Fund, but does not want the EEA Agreement, which gives the opportunity to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e295	It's not interesting at all – it's a completely irrelevant issue. I'm being provoked by that kind of serious thing like this. These are acquisitions we're going to do in the future, it's to secure the Kongsberg Group and Nammo and all the subcontractors an opportunity – they're going to buy from these countries, and they're going to sell to these countries. The party of progress is too much free trade. This is very important for the defence, it is very important for jobs around the whole of Norway. This is too serious to operate such rhetoric and pointless relic exchange. I could keep posts here for many minutes and many hours on this topic, but I'm going to go over to another theme – trade agreement with the United Kingdom. Will the maritime food industry, which is very important, be safeguarded and focused on it in the Free Trade Agreement with the United Kingdom? And will you look at the possibility of concluding a free trade agreement with the United States and Canada? If a huge market is created that is in competition with the EU, we will have the opportunity through both the EEA Agreement and a free trade agreement with these four to have a very large market for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e302	I'd like to discuss what it's going to be, but if the representative breathes a little bit with his stomach, I think we'll get a better discussion. It is quite clear that the trade agreement with the United Kingdom is going to be very important for Norway. It is our main trading partner outside the EU, and access to maritime food is an important part of it. For Norway it will be important to balance our interests. We have defensive interests in agriculture, and we have offensive interests in seafood, and that's the discussion we're in when we're continuing the free trade agreement negotiations. It is important to stress that we experience the same interest from the British side in agreeing with Norway on a free trade agreement, because it is also in the British interest. Then the question is whether or not the trade agreement should be extended. There is nothing now to suggest that it is a topical issue, and for us, the important anchoring is to get a good free trade agreement with the United Kingdom serving Norwegian interests, while at the same time having the internal market and the EEA Agreement, which is very important for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e311	The United Kingdom accounted for a large proportion of GDP in the EU, including agricultural products. This means that when the United Kingdom leaves the EU, which is not much longer, the basis for duty-free quotas for agricultural products from the EU to Norway will be reduced. If quotas are not reduced and the United Kingdom receives its own duty-free quotas in addition, this will result in a net increase in imports of agricultural products into Norway due to brexit. In any case, it makes no sense for the EU to keep the same allowances now as the basis for them has been reduced. My question is: Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs engage in dialogue with the EU with the aim of reducing duty-free quotas for imports of agricultural products?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e318	I believe my answer to a written question from the representative, Enger Mehl, as to whether the same is on the way to Stortinget right now, but I would like to repeat it here: Brexit does not change the trade agreements we have concluded with the EU and to which the Stortinget has joined. This applies both to the regulation of tariff quotas for agricultural products from the EU and to the regulation of EU tariff-free quotas for Norwegian seafood. Another way to think about it, if we're going to go in and try to change one part of the equation, the requirement will also apply to the other part of the equation. This means that we will then have less market access for Norwegian seafood. It's not in Norwegian interest, and that's why we're not going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e323	This is about whether we are going to be in charge of Norwegian agriculture or not? Should we dry to put our feet down for the EU or not? We see that imports of agricultural products in general are increasing independently of the duty-free quotas to this extent. In order to use cheese as an example, imports from the EU have also increased every year. Only in the first half of 2020 was the increase of 9 pst. It is especially cheese for large households and industry that competes directly with the large volumes of milk that go to Norvegia and Jarlsberg. That means we could have hundreds of dairy farms here that we don't have because we're importing instead. If you think it's a shame, you have to try to do something about it, I guess. The question is, is this kind of development desirable by the government? Is that something you want to welcome? If not, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really think that it is necessary to stop the increasing imports and reverse the trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e331	I believe that this is not a matter of drying to put the foot down for the EU, as the representative, Mr. Enger Mehl, says. The EU is our main trading partner, and it is important for us to have a balanced trade agreement that allows us to export both what we need to export and that we can import both what we need and what it is important for our trading partners to export to Norway. I believe that this is also about balance. It's not just about fish, it's about agriculture, it's about balance. I believe that the way in which the question from the representative, Enger Mehl, whom she also asked me in writing, is formulated indicates that one interest is to be taken into account at the expense of another interest. The government's position is that we should have a balanced approach and not now renegotiate agreements that we have concluded, with the risk that we can then get into a situation where we have a significantly lower market access for Norwegian fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e338	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e343	Let me briefly remind you of what was the main message in my own account. The European Green Deal, which is Europe's green gift, is the EU's green, comprehensive growth strategy. The goal is climate neutrality in 2050. This strategy embraces almost all sectors and announces actions in areas such as energy conversion, electrification, transport, industry, circular economy, natural disasters and food production. Norway and the EU have close and committed cooperation in several of the sectors that will be covered here, fortunately. At the same time, the EU is our closest market and includes our main trading partners and key neighbours and allies. The greening of the EU will give impetus to our transition and give opportunities to strengthen our own competitiveness. Norway is and will continue to be an active partner in the green shift in Europe. Europe’s new gear is anchored at the highest level of policy in the EU, precisely to ensure a holistic, strategic and coordinated implementation. In Norway, the follow-up to Europe's Greens is a joint project for the entire government, well coordinated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are usually well-informed to identify Norwegian interests in all the different individual proposals that are now being submitted for treatment in the EU. Of course, I want to work actively to safeguard our interests in the climate and the environment, because there will be changes here that will have consequences for Norway. The government will contribute to the EU's work on circular economy, which is at the heart of the transition towards a climate-neutral society. We will contribute to the updating of chemicals legislation, working for a toxic-free environment in Europe, etc. This is a very important work, and it's already going on. I am also pleased that many have been in different parts of this through the debate, and now I will comment a little on what has emerged. Firstly, I note that among the parties that are more critical of EEA cooperation, there is a generally positive willingness to support the work on the EU's green giving. That's very good. Both the representative Marthinsen from the Labour Party and the representative Lysbakken from SV have sung a bit the same song, which is that it is good with Europe's green giving, and that it is good that the EU also prioritises climate in crisis packages, but then it is all the way under – it was also said directly – that Norway should learn from it and do much more. Without going too far into domestic policy, however, I will allow myself to remind the Storting that through the crisis package treatments in our put we collect views of over 4.5 billion. for green investment. In the next year's budget, the combined climate action is an increase of over 11 billion. kr. It includes the start of the largest climate project in Norwegian industry ever, i.e. Langskip. So I don't want to say that our climate action here is back for anything. On the contrary, she is very offensive. I would also like to add that what we are doing, and what the EU is doing, must be seen as two isolated things, because very much of the climate effort in EU cooperation is also relevant to Norway and also benefits Norwegian industrial companies and Norwegian conversion. In Horizon Europe, which is a very and enormously important research programme, into which the government has proposed that we go into, large parts of the funds go to precisely the climate change that is now being prioritised. The last two weeks ago, it was known that a new environmentally friendly cargo ship was to be built on hydrogen up and down along the west coast. Who's financing it? It is both the state of Norway and the climate fund via the EU. So it's not like the EU's doing one thing and we're doing something else. We're integrated into this for a reason, and it's very positive. The representative of the SV Lighthouse was also concerned that we are working together within the EU in the climate field, so that we weaken our national ambitions and lower our debts, as has been said. I think the reality is the exact opposite. The fact that we are now participating in EU climate cooperation also in the non-quota sector makes it possible for us for the first time to have binding climate targets in the non-quota sector that are not voluntary for Norway to achieve, but that we must now, which is controlled by ESA, if necessary condemned by the EFTA Court, and which were the whole background for the work on the climate plan that many people are calling for. It is not optional to cut future climate emissions. We have to cut in 2021, 2022, 2023 and until 2030. The requirement is 40 pst. We have said that we should do more; we have said that we should cut 45 pst. and that this should happen through the use of national measures. There are not low ambitions in the climate area – that is the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e373	I would first like to thank the Minister of Climate and Environment for a very thorough and good account of an extremely important situation for Norway in the years to come, namely, giving the greens of the European Union and everything that follows from it. One important aspect is that we should go from a linear to a circular economy. So we're going to go from the use and waste of resources to the use and reuse of the same resources. Indeed, climate emissions are as important as they are. But then an interesting question: How is Norway? In a recent report by Shift, Active and Circular Norway, entitled ‘Circularity Gap Report Norway’, they concluded that Norway was almost on the jumbo spot in relation to comparable countries, and that the circularity in Norway was down to 2.4 pst., while, for example, The Netherlands, which made it significantly better, was up to 24,5 pst. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment feel that Norway and Norwegian economy are on track? If he does not feel it, what will the Council of State do to bring us up to the level that related comparable countries in Europe do, now that this becomes important not only for climate and environment but also for the competitiveness of industry? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e378	I think I'll take that report for what he is, with the statements that lie there. For example, Norway would do much better with that measurement method if we didn't now carry out a record-breaking railway development. The fact that we're implementing a record railway development means that we're importing a lot of different metals and iron, and we're consuming a lot of resources to build a railway. It counts very negative in that accounting. So the main reason Norway is getting pretty bad out of the way of counting is that we're investing a lot in our own economy right now. What you don't look at is what very many people think about as very important in the circular economy – and that for good reason – is simply the re-use of actual resources, when one is going to take them out and back in. That's a good thing. We're incredibly good at recycling a lot in Norway, and then there's a lot we're not that good at. That's why the government is working on a circular economy strategy, which is on the way and firmly anchored, and which we work well with. The strategy will point out the way in which we will both match and take forward the EU's ambitions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e383	We're looking forward to that strategy. We've been hearing about it for a few years, and we've been asking for it. We had a message called ‘Waste as a Resource — Waste Policy and Circular Economy’ three to four years ago, which said something about waste and little about the circular economy, so we look forward to the strategy. I notice that in e.g. other Nordic countries have such strategies in place for the longest time. I'll ask another question. Norway’s 2050 target is still 90–95 pst. Cut, cut, Now the EU has set carbon neutrality, i.e. net zero. Biden and Harris said in the election campaign that they would go in for net zero in the United States. Canada is just doing the same thing. Japan and South Korea have done it. It becomes increasingly clear that the new norm for modern industrialized countries is to say carbon neutrality by 2050. It might sound like a deterrent, but I think it's basically important to say that the goal is actually to balance what we're releasing, and what we're capable of resuming. Will the Council of State take the initiative that Norway, too, will be in favour of net zero, i.e. carbon neutrality, by 2050?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e390	I found both neutrality targets and cut targets important. Norway's goal for 2050 is to cut 90-95 pst, which is very ambitious. It doesn't mean Norway doesn't have a neutrality target. Norway has a climate neutrality target, but it's not for 2050, it's for 2030 – agreed by Stortinget. We're also working on following up. Of course we're going to do that. It is important — insofar as one has emissions — to compensate for it. I don't disagree that it's important, but I still think that our decisive focus in the future must be to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible. What I mean is the most important thing. In the context of the EU, I believe that the neutrality target set by 2050 is very important, because there is a lot of debate going on against what one should do in 2030. Norway has already told us to cut 50-55 pst. Now, hopefully, the EU is also landing where Norway has intended to land, at 55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e395	I just want to say from the moment that if the government wants to have a partner in getting both clearly stated 55 pst. in 2030 and carbon neutrality in 2050, the Workers' Party is ready for it. We've added that up in our software draft. I believe it is important to set a target in the same way as the EU does. The 2030 neutrality goal that we've had with us for a long time is another kind of neutrality, because it includes a lot of quota purchases. It's a good goal from its time, but now it's a new kind of goal that becomes the standard in many other Western countries. I believe, as the Council of State was about, that it also qualifies the 2030 targets that they say that the long-term target is no more emissions than you can capture through natural carbon bonds, for example. in soil or industrial — through CCS — because it in a way makes a clearer understanding that 2030 is an intermediate station to a main objective, which is 2050. My call to the Council of State is that we work to get to the same level as for example. The EU does, including at the 2050 target.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e402	In the case of climate targets, Norway is currently ahead of the EU when there are high ambitions to cut a lot. We hope and believe that the European Union will come and land where we have said that we hope that the European Union will land. That's good. It means a lot. Then there is in the climate cooperation we have, in particular, neutrality goals and zero emission targets when it comes to, for example. relate to land policy. It's very important. So I think at the same time that when you look at those targets, cut, etc., it's important to have the European perspective, because European countries have very different intentions when it comes to, for example. the degree to which a tree has a lot of forest. So the 2050 target that lies there is important for the way in which a person works in the EU. But I would like to stress that we are working for the EU to set itself high targets, both in terms of climate neutrality and in terms of climate policy. This is because we work with the EU on these issues, and because the EU is an incredibly important player. I think everyone should be happy that we have the EEA cooperation that we have, which is now becoming increasingly deepened with climate policy. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e409	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e415	I will follow up a little of what the representative Barth Eide has asked for, but first of all I should like to thank you for the statement, and for the fact that the Council of State also now refers to the recycling and loss of natural diversity in the presentation. It's good, new trends not just to refer to climate, which of course is one of the most important. Almost always, this state council and former government councils in this government have been on the leadership of Europe, from the EU, the leaders of the trading of allowances. My question to the Council of State is: How long will the Council of State postpone the necessary emission cut in Norway, and will ensure that measures and instruments are put in place to reduce emissions in Norway by 2030 at 55 pst. lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e422	It's a little strange to have as an excuse for the question how long we're going to keep postponing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, when emissions in Norway go down year by year and now are at their lowest level of 27 years. It must mean that we're cutting emissions, not that we're postponing them – and of course we are, because this government has high targets. We both have a 2020 target that we have before us and we hope we will be able to achieve, and now we are going to move forward towards 2030. There we have said and reported to the UN that we should cut 50-55 pst. We are still waiting for the EU's goals, but I hope that they will be ambitious. What is important in this context is that when we now have a climate cooperation with the EU, which is incorporated as a protocol supplement in the EEA Agreement, which the Socialist Left Party opposes, it means that we are now receiving a binding climate budget throughout the 2020s. It's very important. Then we have to have a systematic plan to achieve them. That plan I'm completely in the interview with now, and he'll be coming to the Stortinget soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e429	The presentation is comprehensive, with a number of strategies at EU level, but the most concrete in the presentation appears to be the very ambitions to raise the targets, the percentages. The approach is interesting, but it is far from reassuring. The statement is also interesting in relation to matters that are not mentioned. In fact, there is something larger and much more significant in the handling of CO 2 than the Council of State explains, and it is nature's own and extensive cycle of carbon. I want to challenge the Council of State to give an overall assessment of how he views the possibilities of playing more with nature. I want to hear how the Council of State looks at the possibilities of exploiting photosynthesis to reduce the CO 2 content in the atmosphere. Furthermore, climate action also involves a comprehensive system of target and result management, where the important and dominant parameter for measurement is CO 2 equivalent as a common expression of the impact of different greenhouse gases. Since CO 2 equivalents are so central, I would also challenge the Council of State to comment on whether he sees any concrete problems with this measurement method.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e450	To take the last one: CO 2 equivalents is the agreed method a user, which is in the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, and on which there is agreement is a reasonable way to count greenhouse gas emissions. I'm a little uncertain about what the representative is looking for when he seems critical of it, but that's after all this is all about. But in order to address the more specific issue, and there I thought the representative had a very good point: it is quite obvious that in the fight to stop climate change and take care of nature, we need to take a look at forest and land policies as well. That's perfectly correct, because it means a lot. It is also part of the climate cooperation Norway has with the EU, and in the EU's green giving, the clear vision that we should stop the loss of nature and use green resources in a resilient way, so that we do not get net emissions from that sector. Then the problem is that the Central Party has voted against almost all initiatives in this way here in the Stortinget, for example. Forbidden the breeding of ants, but it is not the government's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e460	Governments don't take into account that it's photosynthesis that really works. It works every day, and it's free. It creates renewable carbon that can replace fossil carbon. It's part of the circuit. That's where the future lies. That's why the land use is essential. We have to use the land in a way that promotes this, and then we have to have profitability in that production. The most important thing in my question was CO 2 equivalents. The CO 2 equivalent system is such that methane, which is not a permanent gas, works very strongly in the short term in terms of CO 2 equivalents, but it goes into CO 2. That means that if we shoot all the cows tomorrow, the methane emission goes down, and one can meet the government's CO 2 target, but it has no effect in the longer term, because the cow is part of the circuit. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e482	No, the Council of States is not in agreement. It's true that methane gases are extremely powerful and seem very strong, much stronger than CO 2 at first, but then they get out of the atmosphere faster than CO 2 does. That's right. These are two different gases. That's why we're talking about CO 2 equivalents. So that's why you're going to re-calculate it so it's comparable. That's the whole point of the system. When we talk about methane CO2 equivalents, they take a height of those effects. But the fact that methane works so fast is not an argument against cutting methane gases. It's an argument that you also have to reduce methane gases, because we only have ten years to reduce global warming quickly. I would also like to remind you that although it is on the question of the representative of Lundteg that he is busy with agriculture here, it is not just agriculture that has methane gas emissions. It also has industry, it also has other players. Reducing our climate footprint, regardless of whether it's CO 2 or methane or fluorine or other gases being emitted, I hope and believe that the Center Party too agrees that is an important goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e504	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e509	While we're inside cows, I wanted to remind myself of the Stalin quotation that the introduction of communism in Poland is like trying to sell a cow. But we're going to another Russian. Vladimir Putin said in 1999 that history has shown that all dictatorships, all forms of authoritarian rule, are available. Only democratic systems are inaccessible. Since then, quite a lot has happened to democracies in Europe. They're here, and now we see that many of them are about to erod. Last year, for the first time since 2001, there were more autocracy in the world than democracies. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was just in his presentation, and she pointed out that the Commission has presented a report on the state of the rule of law in all EU countries, where the main deviations, not surprisingly, were found in Poland and Hungary. It was said in the debate that this is not our case. I think that is wrong. The question is not whether we should do anything, but what we should do. It is in line with Norwegian interests that democracy and stability are maintained in all European countries, because we are politically and economically dependent on all our allies following international rules of play. What can we do as part of the international community and European democracy architecture? When Hungary and Poland build up the rights of their own people, it concerns us all, because it is our human rights that are violated when the rule of law is undermined, the opposition and the press are silenced, and minorities are oppressed. It's getting serious now. This week, democracy was taken to Brussels, when Poland and Hungary — and now with the support of Slovenia — block the long-term budget. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was aware that a continued negotiation of EEA funds with Hungary was ongoing. I wish the Foreign Minister good luck in those negotiations, and I am pleased that the government is showing that it is important to secure funds for civil society in Hungary. They're the ones that need us now, and that's where the money is going to be spent. EEA funds are based on common values and respect for human rights. They're there to support the organizations that fight for people and their rights when the rulers work against them. They are also the only superpower we have. The minister said that the cut in support of so-called LHBTI-free zones in Poland is being noticed. I hope so, because what happens if not? And what are we going to do now, when Poland has made the whole country an abortion-free zone, and so on, women's right to control their own bodies is violated? The minister said that she should present and remind Poland of their human rights obligations. The problem is that the PiS Party's respect for international standards and the relationship between judicial and executive power and human rights in general have not been heavenly in recent years. Fortunately, many react simultaneously: ministers, organisations, the Council of Europe, the EU and the OSCE. The problem, as I see it, is that hanging to do something is great, but the ability to coordinate is small. I should like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs give a broader assessment of the role Norway can play in bringing about an international pressure that will lead to change. Poland’s and Hungary’s attempts to rewrite history in the EU in recent days are dangerous. The budget blockage is a protest against EU attempts to link transfers with compliance with the rule of law. When the Hungarian Minister for Foreign Affairs says that it is not Hungary that attacks Brussels or other Member States with deliberate accusations of non-compliance with the rule of law, it is those who attack us, it is not just a rhetorical act in this particular case, but it is an attempt to create an attack picture of international rules and institutions. I should like to hear the Foreign Minister's reflections on the reactions to financial sanctions. If the result of financial sanctions is a number of false accusations and rail adjustment of policies to meet the sanctions, but not to correct the error – so don't make real changes that people in Poland and Hungary need, which, after all, is the goal here – what kind of tool are we left with then?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e530	I would like to thank both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment for their excellent presentations on important EU and EEA issues. In particular, I would like to thank Minister of Foreign Affairs Eriksen Soreide for showing the extent of Norway's relationship with Europe and the depth and extent of this cooperation. If there is one thing the Coronapandemic has taught us, it is the importance of international cooperation for Norway. The virus did not originate in our country, but here – as elsewhere – we have had to take drastic measures to meet the challenge. Our ability to combat the pandemic and its consequences is raging in Europe. We already saw this at the beginning of the pandemic. Since infectious diseases equipment was stranded on Svinesund in the middle of its first phase, it was the same agreement that gave us exemptions from export restrictions. Our economy has had to endure a very great impact as a result of shut-down, less travel and falling demand. When we start repatriating the Norwegian economy, access by Norwegian companies to the European market through the EEA Agreement will be indispensable. The same will be true of the health aspect of the coronary apathy. Efforts to manage the spread of infection and find a vaccine have led to stronger cooperation between European countries. As the Foreign Minister warned in his presentation, globalization and national solutions are tempting political slogans for some, but the reality is quite different. Reality teaches us that we need cross-border access to vaccines and health equipment and to markets abroad to get back on our feet when the virus is suppressed. If anything, the lesson we are learning today is also a call for those who want a weaker relationship with the EU, those who want more solitude and less cooperation, to come up with good arguments. In particular, I think of forces in the opposition that want us to renegotiate the EEA Agreement or withdraw it completely. The centre party is very much talking about the close things, about Norwegian goods, about cultural landscapes and public services close to people. All these relationships and values are good, but so much talk about proximity becomes consequently also nearsighted. There is a glimpse of Norway's place in the world that denies our dependence on cooperation in our neighbourhood, and how important it is to us in Europe that we stand together – powerfully united. These aren't new rates from the Center Party. We are used to their attacks on the EU, on transnational cooperation and on Norway’s relationship with Europe through the EEA Agreement. What is new is that the Workers' Party also shows signs of slippery flight in these questions. The Labour Party was formerly Right Cooperation partner in European policy, but our former ally in this area is in an unfortunate motion. In its alternative state budget for 2021, the Workers' Party proposes to cut the EEA funds drastically. They call it a delay in payment, but it's just as full of talk about a cut. 1.2 B.C.E. kr of these funds want the Workers' Party now to budget for a completely different purpose – I can refer to the Workers' Party's items 77 and 78, which are black in white – even if we have committed ourselves to paying them when the projects they are linked to show development. The working party itself has been involved in negotiating the agreements for the allocation of precisely these funds. What the Workers' Party is now proposing is not only an economically questionable operation, but also a signal to our European partners and allies that the main party of the opposition is on the waving front on this issue. The EEA funds are our contribution to strengthening our EEA relationship with Europe, to building equivalency and to promoting social cohesion in our main neighbourhood. This is ultimately in our own interest, not least now when the whole of Europe – like us – is trying to find its way out of the crisis. In the EU, there is a great deal of activity in this area, as we have heard from both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment. A united and co-ordinated Europe can be able to raise itself together in the economic field, in the field of preparedness, in the field of climate change and in the field of health. All the measures that make Europe stronger serve us. It serves Norway. Europe is our political, our economic and our cultural neighbourhood. Europe is also Norway's home.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e557	I would like to thank the Ministers for their presentation. The centre party clearly concludes on the Paris Agreement's objective of limiting the global temperature increase to less than 2 degrees and preferably not more than 1.5 degrees. Norway is therefore to follow up on its obligations in the agreement, both with measures nationally and in cooperation with other countries, including the EU. A large proportion of Norwegian industry has for a long time been part of the EU quota system. However, as the Centre Party sees it, it is important that all industries work together towards the goal of a low-carbon society. This work is not done by itself either, but is dependent on good and predictable schemes that contribute to risk reduction and make Norway an attractive country to invest in, in which the Council of State presented itself. Clean and reasonable energy is a key factor in achieving that goal. The Council of State made it clear in its statement that the government is in the process of CO 2 compensation for industry. This scheme is crucial for many large businesses in this country. In the government budget, the government writes the following: ‘The EU is working to establish new CO 2 compensation guidelines for the next period [[2021-2023]] I wish the government were even clearer that the CO 2 compensation scheme should continue, and not just that you are in a process. It becomes too passive to believe that this system is important. The industry's signals are crystal clear: the system must be continued and the space for action in the new guidelines must be exploited. The Council of State highlighted in its statement that the core of Europe’s green giving is building its own competitiveness through conversion. Yeah, it's hard to disagree that you need to change from the fossil to the green carbon. Unfortunately, the government's toolbox is unfortunately empty to ensure such a conversion. An example of this is how the government passively sits and looks at the challenges facing the Norwegian wood and forest industries and has had for a long time. The answer from the government is, to quote Minister Nybø in answer to written questions from me in connection with the conversion related to Norske Skog Saugbruks in Halden ‘the government’s difficulty in dealing with the underlying market conditions. Enterprises themselves must take the necessary business steps to adapt to changes in the market.» This is bad for what this State Council said about building its own competitive power on conversion. One cannot convert when one is already down, and it could be exciting to hear which industry the Council of State thinks should be converted, and possibly to what. In the summer, the EU's fourth energy market package was consulted by the government. It all happened a little under the radar, and you had not taken the break from the government to translate the text from English to Norwegian. Rather, the government had prepared consultation notes asking for input into specific issues, which are common. The EU's fourth energy market package will further provide the EU Energy Agency, Acer, with increased power at the expense of the national state in the field of energy policy and challenge the EEA's top pillar system. The EU's objective of energy being a product that flows freely within the internal market is sought through ACER and the new energy market package. Historically, Norway has had a surplus of power with a clean and reasonable force. A continued approach to the EU energy market will unduly result in higher electricity prices in this country when prices in the internal market are harmonised by means of market mechanisms. Construction of the much-mentioned NorthConnect cable, e.g. are intended solely to contribute to an increase in electricity prices up to 3 øre per kWh. The new energy package, also called the clean energy package, which is likely to be presented to the Stortinget, means that network capacity constraints will be virtually impossible. The current shall flow freely. It will help to reduce the profitability of Norwegian industry — the same industry as the Council of State pointed out in its presentation as important for green migration. As a result, these industrial holdings do not move across borders to Sweden or Germany. No, the consequence is that they are likely to fall in profitability and, due to harmonised energy prices in Europe, will come to the Asian market and produce aluminium and silicon using cheap fossil energy sources there, rather than pure Norwegian hydropower, as the tradition has been for a hundred years. So Norwegian clean and cheap hydropower, as we know it, will not be our competitive advantage in the future, but only part of a large energy market with a mix of different forms of energy production in the European market, depending on how much it rains, how much the sun shines, or how much it blows. Is there any basis for calling this a clean energy package? We can take a discussion about that, and the Central Party looks forward to further debate this when the government presents the matter to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e599	The future is renewable, circular and sustainable. If we are to leave a viable planet to our descendants, we need more than half the emissions by 2030 and have reached net zero by 2050. This is an existing imperative. But now it is no longer just about cutting emissions. Well, that's how much it is about developing sustainable solutions for the future and taking clear positions in the healthy competition that is now in full swing about the best solutions to this major challenge. This requires that we raise whole value chains, build infrastructure and set a clear direction towards development in all sectors. We're going to go from a linear to a circular economy, from use to re-use, from fossil to renewable energy, and we're going to learn to live in interaction with nature around us. The EU's current power collection through Europe's green giving is an essential contribution, and I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment for putting this on the agenda of this year's EEA statement. Together with the EU's digital agenda and the increasing focus on strategic autonomy, Europe's greens add up to a whole new era of Europe's willingness to lift in herds. Climate policy and industrial policy are growing together here. What is good for the planet's climate should also be good for jobs and our common well-being. Continuity in thinking is a much more ambitious interaction between the market and the public in pointing the direction, not least through what is called ‘missions’, perhaps best translated into major societal tasks. This can quickly become the global gold standard on how to translate the main objectives of the Paris Agreement into concrete practical action at regional level. The green give will meet us through the EEA. It will meet us through the climate agreement with the EU. It will affect us as a central energy partner, and it will affect us because most of our trade comes to or comes from Europe. Then we need to understand how the European market is changing as a result of this. I share the government's objective that Norway should be an active partner in this work, but we cannot be an active partner with a passive industrial policy. We cannot sit here at home and hope that the market will largely do it by itself, while most other modern industrialised countries are now on a much more active track in their industrial and industrial policies. Norway therefore needs to give its own green. As the European Union does, we need to coordinate all the instruments and point in some clear directions, taking into account where we, as a country, come from, where we are today, and where we are going. One of the most important measures in the EU series of consequences of this green gift is what is called taxonomy, or, more simply, a classification system for green investment. Now it's like there's a lot of private capital looking for green ports. Then it's important to clarify what's really green, just to distinguish, as many in the business themselves want, between greenwashing and real green investment. Here, the EU taxonomy comes in with clear, solid criteria that focus on the life cycle and that focus on how to avoid locking into obsolete fossil and linear solutions. This means, for example: even a solar panel may fall outside if it has not been produced in a sustainable manner. This is important and good. But it also creates some challenges for us. We have seen examples, for example: where it was assumed that small-scale power plants were not sustainable because the relationship between the expansion and the production of electricity was too poor. It turned out to be voting on the continent, but pretty bad in the Norwegian mountain resort. There are, among other things: The Small Forces Association operates a good lobbying policy, and it is likely that this sentence goes out, but we see similar things, for example. when ships that are sustainably powered by electricity or hydrogen do not fall within because they are to be used in the oil industry. It undermines our common goal that the oil industry should be able to be like an engine that drags us into the green shift. Farming fish is another example. Finally, I would like to mention a relationship with, namely the increased discussion about the carbon tax at the border. This is an old idea if time has come. It's going to happen. It is a way of meeting the problem of carbon leakage to countries without carbon pricing, but once again it will face some specific challenges, as we are not part of the EU customs union but are part of the internal market. I would urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to say a little more during the debate on how they intend to meet this debate on carbon tax at the border, what it will mean for us, and how we can contribute in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e618	I would like to begin by thanking both the Council of State and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for their good presentation. To succeed in the green transition, we need to cooperate with Europe and the world. The fight against the climate problem is a global struggle no country can win alone. Climate policy is not a Norway championship. Climate policy is not a competition to make as many points as possible in a stoppage. Climate policy is not sitting at a committee meeting and thinking, "Oh, that proposal that maybe our party should go into, because it looks a little silly if we don't stand in it." Climate policy is much more than that. Climate policy is long-term work. There are complex challenges to solve. Therefore, this government took the initiative to link Norway to the EU climate policy framework. In February Norway reinforced its climate change target, and after that the European Commission proposed that the EU increase its target to 55pst. To all those who are part of the climate debate and feel that Norway has to go ahead, this government again showed that it wants to take the lead in climate policy. The EU is our most important export market, our main trading partner. So we can either fool ourselves into a fantasy where we're going to pretend that what's happening in the EU, with the new green gift and what they're doing on the circular economy, won't have anything to say for our businesses – and then just see how it goes – or we have to do this, too. We can do what the government does, which is to convert to get emissions down and to secure Norwegian jobs. Let me do some examples of that. For spring, Stortinget will deal with the government's climate announcement. Then this room will define Norwegian climate policy for the next ten years. It might be the biggest negotiation during this downtime. So great is what we should do for spring, based on the government's initiative to give Norway a climate policy that applies to all sectors – something new in Norwegian climate policy. There will be a cooperation between business and migration authorities and to bring emissions down. This government also looks at long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources. Tina Bru, the Council of State, has announced a growth message that makes the industrial potential of Norwegian energy resources visible and the basis for contributing to value creation, well-being and profitable jobs in the future. In the autumn, the government presented the Langskip project, a project for technology development and infrastructure for carbon capture and storage. It's the biggest industrial effort we've ever seen, and not in a way that others in the past have done, where you just give blanks to the companies, so that the companies don't take any risk – no, where the authorities and industry actually cooperate to get this done. Europe looks at us. The only thing we hear from the opposition in this is that it's taken too long. Come on! To be honest, can we discuss the political realities sometimes in this country? It's just a little prayer now that we're approaching Christmas. Well, it's not that close to Christmas. Then it's the hydrogen strategy, which is followed up by the hydrogen road map, where you have to look at how we can lift Norwegian hydrogen projects and get a bigger stake in this. These are just a few examples of everything the government does. And this is the consequence of two things. One is that we want to bring emissions down and create new industrial and renewable industrial ventures for Norway to secure Norwegian jobs. It's also a consequence of us realizing that if we're going to do this, we have to cooperate with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e639	If there's any reason to believe anything else, the president would like to add up to the debate in this big room every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e644	The corona pandemic has become a new example of a crisis that provides a basis for more cooperation and closer integration into the EU, now also for a common preparedness for this type of health threat, which was the country’s own responsibility but proved inadequate. For Norway, there is a new example of the value of the EEA Agreement and of the fact that the EEA Agreement is slightly more than a trade agreement – it now ensures early access to the vaccines that are currently being developed. The coronary apathy is also a new example of what creates a common dependence between countries. Another example is the development of global companies and value chains. There are a few things that are now being made here and sold there. Products are often composed of thousands of parts produced in different countries and services and products are woven together. To protect children from dangerous substances in toys and to ensure decent working conditions for workers, policies must be based on capital and business. It requires cooperation between countries, and the more committed, the more effective. That is what EU cooperation and EEA cooperation are all about. The EEA Agreement does not only ensure access to the main export market by Norwegian industry, it ensures fair competition because it is the same. It makes the export market a domestic market. Those who believe a trade agreement would do the same for Norwegian business exports to Europe as the EEA Agreement will soon have a major experiment to study when the British leave the EU from the New Year. It is possible that they agree on an agreement that eliminates customs duties, but since they will no longer have the same standards as the EU, border control will take place. It will also be for our trade agreement, which is to be the bridge to a final agreement. The withdrawal of the British from the EU also affects us. In the first presentation following the referendum in the autumn of 2016, European Minister Aspaker said that the government’s aim was to have an agreement with the British at least as good as the EEA Agreement. Since then, the realities have also sunk into the government, because, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement on Monday, ‘A free trade agreement with the United Kingdom could never be a complete substitute for the trade relationship we have had with the United Kingdom through the EEA.’ However, where the trade agreement should be better than the EEA Agreement, our fish market access is. There the government has a challenge that I hope it lives up to. We are also in front of a new round of Section 19 negotiations on trade in agricultural products. There I am afraid the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right when she says in reply to the representative Enger Mehl, who asks whether import quotas for cheese should be reduced since the EU shrinks through Britain's withdrawals, that we are at risk of being met by the same argument in the case of fish. It's going to be a balance, and then, as usual, we have to balance the considerations. But why have the negotiations on geographical indicators stopped? Although the EU has far more such products than we have, this must be an element that could lubricate the negotiations, to put it that way. The Commission has presented a directive on minimum wages, which has met with a great deal of resistance and concern about countries which organise wage formation through collective bargaining, has to introduce minimum wage provisions through the legislation. The directive is almost pointing in the opposite direction. It points to the importance of a high level of organisation and collective bargaining which effectively ensures decent pay and working conditions. Yet, the resistance is great. The government has also signaled resistance. However, it is unclear whether it is considered to be EEA-relevant and the EU side appears uncertain. Then it is important that we evaluate it together with Iceland and Liechtenstein. For EEA relevance, there is something that needs to be clarified jointly when it is not obvious one way or another. Then I would like to say to the representative Ingerd Schou, who is concerned that we have covered some of our expenditures with lower expenditures on the EEA funds. It is quite ritual every year that this post has been handed over. So it's not about running away from our obligations, it's about adapting to a progress that's delayed in terms of the different projects. It is also interesting that more people who believe that the EEA Agreement should be scrapped would like to participate in EU cooperation in individual areas, for example: vaccine. And the representative Tybring-Gjedde thought it was very important to participate in the Defence Fund in the interests of our defence industry. Just now, the EEA Agreement is important for all Norwegian industry, and a prerequisite for being part of the Defence Fund is also the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e669	At all times it has been said that you live in a time of destiny, but rarely has it fitter to say than it is right now. The whole of Europe is shut down these days because of a pandemic, millions of people in Europe have lost their jobs, and at the same time we see Western democracies being fragile. We don't have to go to the United States to see it. We see this in our own neighborhood. In a number of areas and in a number of countries, we now see right-wing populists exploiting the situation of mobilising—parties that are being fed just by setting people up against each other. Here Norway should always raise its voice, because we know how dangerous it can be when you start to slide. So you can ask yourself what kind of posts our own government has set up against right-wing populism here at home, because there's no longer a distinction between what you do out in Europe and what you do here at home. It's connected. It does so in the meeting of right-wing populism; it does so in the fight for women's rights; it does so in the defence of workers' rights; and it does it perhaps most of all in the work of reducing emissions, in the face of the climate crisis. I would like to say to the climate minister that it is very good that he is here and is in the European debate. I hope it can become an annual tradition hereafter, because what is happening in Europe affects us so much. When our largest market says that they should put the climate at the top, yes, then it affects Norwegian industry. I believe that Norway has a lot to learn from Europe's climate policy, because in a lot of areas they have just moved further – to set climate targets that are achieved, to invest in new technologies that create jobs, and to get the circular economy, which is not primarily about waste, but is about the whole way we run society. Stefan Heggelund called for debate on political realities. Then I wonder where he's been in the last few years, because that's exactly what we're doing here in the Storting. We're discussing what's going to be our climate policy. We in the Workers' Party have great ambitions for our climate policy. We believe that Norway should be a leading country, driving new technologies, setting new demands, showing that a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs is the way to go. We want a policy that makes other countries follow, but that's actually not where we are right now. That's not what's real, because in reality it's not about Norway going ahead, but about us not going after. In a number of areas, we now see that the train is running, and we're not on the way. The paper on the circular economy was presented in the previous magnification period. It was just about waste. The government defended itself by saying that they should come up with their own strategy to deal with the circular economy. This was said by Vidar Helgesen. Now there have been three climate ministers since that, and we heard in the line change that the answer is still that there will be a strategy that will come later. While Norway hesitates, jobs are created in Europe. When it comes to new technologies, we also see that Europe is moving ahead. Here, too, it is being neglected from the Norwegian side. The government's hydrogen strategy showed no direction. There was more than one information brochure that showed that hydrogen is good. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is very good that Norway is working with Europe to cut emissions, but it does not have to be a rest cushion to not cut enough emissions by itself. So far, it has been impossible to set a national emission target for Norway. The Labour Party has proposed here in Stortinget that we should, that we should not use any flexibility, that our emission targets should be national. Unfortunately, it has not been given a majority. The government and government parties have said no to this, and they have allowed the Progress Party to boast of its breakthrough in the meeting with the Right and the Left, in saying that they should have maximum flexibility in meeting with Europe. Also in the case of climate change emissions, the government, in the last six months they are sitting, shall, after eight years, present their response. The state council has promised a climate announcement before Christmas. Then we just want to say from the Labour Party that we have clear expectations of getting measures that give 55 pst. national cut. Then the government will have to assess for itself whether it is for us to go to it, or whether it will again be the Progress Party that will be their best friend in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e686	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e691	I thank you for the presentation. I also thank you for allowing me to take part in a debate on international policy and Norway. It does good, so does it. The EU has really sat in the driver’s seat to create a framework for a new green growth strategy. Politically, a great deal of good has been adopted that has consequences both for our economy and for our policies in the future. In its presentation, the Minister for Climate Change had largely a description of the EU's adopted policies, and although we are doing very well – on Longships and on maritime level – we still miss the fact that we could be clearer in areas where we have priority and could thus possibly influence the measures, not least through closer cooperation with our Nordic neighbours who are members of the EU. With brexit, the centre of gravity in the EU has shifted, and we have a responsibility for increasing the importance of robust Nordic models. This applies not least to the link between climate and industrial policy and the fact that this, which has been discussed by many, is linked to the fundamental principles of the rule of law. So to some examples: Norway was in the early stages of waste management of electrical and electronic waste and has set a standard that several other countries have copied. Waste policy is an important part of the circular economy. Norway still has a position and an opportunity to be in the driver’s seat in terms of developing the circular economy, but what we see in the budget is that instead of entering the value chain early, at producer responsibility, a final stage fee has been set, which makes it very difficult for the waste industry to have muscles for setting up new businesses, new green businesses and carbon capture and storage. But what we've seen in Bergen, with the BIR, that has established their own business where they capture carbon that they can also use in nanotechnology, is incredibly exciting. I have also received many feedback from the process industry and, as many have been involved, they fear that the CO 2 price of imports into the EU can act as a protectionist on the part of the EU, so that Norway is kept out. Here it is important that we use our room for action, and I look forward to how we should design that policy as well. I think it's been 20 years since the EU got a chemical strategy, but they've also developed a new chemical strategy, which is very important for the environment and health. We have to deal with environmental crime later today. There's a lack of control over what we're importing, and what's been particularly noticeable is that it was -- I think -- 6,000 different companies importing, and 43 pst. of which there are no employees. So here's also an area where Norway can be in the driver's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e709	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment for their excellent presentations. I have no doubt that the pandemic has put European cooperation to a tough test, but at the same time I have also become even more strengthened in the belief that good and close cooperation across borders is important and necessary. In recent months with the pandemic in Norway and the rest of the world, it is clear that there are no countries that are able to deal with this crisis on their own. The virus, as I said, knows no borders, and we've noticed that here on the mountain as well. I rarely allow an opportunity to go from me to stress the importance of the EEA agreement for Norway. I have previously highlighted the importance of the EEA Agreement for our business and jobs throughout the country, but now the pandemic has shown us that the close integration we have into the EU through the EEA Agreement has been important also in ensuring our citizens access to vaccines. Through active efforts and on the basis of our close relationship with the EU through the EEA and Schengen, we have succeeded in achieving good cooperation and consultation arrangements. The fact that Norway has, through its cooperation with the EU, been able to join the agreements and arrangements negotiated by the EU for the purchase of covid-19 vaccines has been important to ensure that Norwegian citizens receive vaccines as soon as a vaccine is ready. Those who think that this would have been possible for Norway to achieve on its own, think I'm in a different reality than the reality. In the news this morning, we could hear that Norway is likely to have the first doses of vaccines against covid-19 already in January. This is a good result of our cooperation towards the EU. It is the EU country Sweden that will be the Norwegian authorities’ vaccine coordinator between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the EU Commission. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was so clear that cooperation with the EU on health protection will continue to be important for Norway in the future. It assures me that the government takes my health and your health safety seriously. It's a shame that there are some parties that use the coronary apathy as a pretext to promote their own agenda on a closed nation state, when the truth is that we are totally dependent on international cooperation to isolate the virus and to deal with the economic consequences of the pandemic. Norway’s district industries and jobs depend on the EEA Agreement. If we are to achieve our ambitious climate targets, it must be achieved through close cooperation with the EU. Finally, the pandemic is best addressed through EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e724	First, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment for their excellent presentations. They show that both the coronary apathy and, in particular, the climate challenges are cross-border and can only be solved through cross-border cooperation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to how the EU in the wake of the pandemic strengthens its cooperation in several areas, such as health preparedness and economic reconstruction. I am very pleased that the government will wholeheartedly support Norwegian cooperation with the EU and, in particular, the EEA Agreement. I think it is quite incredible that the Central Party will now scrap the EEA Agreement and put the Norwegian economy at risk in a very serious situation. It is an area I would like to mention, which also makes it wise for Norway to look at the EU and cooperate with the EU, and that is the question of false news, so-called ‘fake news’. Let me mention a few initiatives within the EU. Firstly, the EU has promoted an action plan to meet disinformation, a ‘action plan to step up efforts to counter disinformation’. It explicitly mentions how to cooperate with social media. Another area is the creation of The European Digital Media Observatory, EDMO. That body will identify actors actively working against false news. The initiative was launched this summer. Dissemination and misleading dissemination of information is always a challenge. This is not least what we have seen under this pandemic, at a time when social media represent more than ever an increasing proportion of the population's media consumption and access to information. Under a pandemic, we are particularly vulnerable to communication that spreads distrust and undermines the authorities' message. In liberal democracies, there is a constant balance between contributing to the correctness of information on important issues, while maintaining freedom of expression. We now see that social media have begun to take this seriously. We've been on Facebook and Twitter postponing the U.S. presidential election, and we see that the platforms are now flagging posts that promote controversial claims. Even the President-in-Office has noticed it. I would therefore like to say that close cooperation with the European Union will strengthen the work against false news.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e737	It was a cold shower to the right the Foreign Minister's answer to the question from the representative Enger Mehl in the lines today about the import of agricultural products. This link between imports of agricultural products and fish exports is designed. Norway could have had much better access for fish on the EU market. In the newly published book ‘Marine and Europe’, it is a very interesting chapter that goes through the EU’s trade agreements with other countries in the veterinary field. The centre party has always said that Norway complies with EU legislation. There is no reason Norway cannot continue to export to the EU without border control because that is exactly what the Faeroe Islands are doing. As for Norway, it goes over 60 pst. of their fish to the EU, and they export without any form of veterinary border control. They're not an EU member, they don't have an EEA agreement. Another country is Switzerland. They don't export fish, they export meat. They also have a veterinary code approved by the EU. They export meat from their own country, but they can also import from third countries, control it and further export to the EU without veterinary border controls. As I said, we have about the same proportion of the fish we export, which goes to the EU market, but the EU is, of course, much more dependent on Norwegian fish than on that coming from the Faroe Islands, because we have almost 26 pst. imports of the EU. It's actually three times more than number two, which is China. The Faroe Islands have barely 3 pst., so it is clear that the EU is much more dependent on Norwegian fish. What interest should they have in delaying or appreciating the fish that their inhabitants and the fishing industry depend on? There was no reason in the world that Norway could not have the same agreement as the Faroe Islands and Switzerland. Why not work for it, why one wants to maintain a link between agriculture and fish that is very special for Norway, is a mystery. Perhaps it is that the Right, which is unable to get multiples in the hall to weaken agriculture as much as they want, can do so using the EU? In any case, it is difficult to understand that when a country reports with such a large share of exports of agricultural products to Norway as it does to the United Kingdom, it should not be deducted. The same applies, of course, to fishing quotas, but we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e748	It is staggering to be energy and climate politicians from Norway, but it is also staggering to be energy and climate politicians in Norway. Tuesday distribution indicated to the full that we have a clear position in the EU as a priority country for the transition we are now in the middle of. Europe's green giving is the EU's green growth strategy. This is also in line with the way the government here puts up and facilitates the creation of value in Norway. We were early out pointing to the green shift, and this has given us a position in the EU as an important ally and partner. Here we can refer to Norway's work in the field of carbon capture and storage, where Longships will have an infrastructure that can also benefit Europe. Our electric car bet is unique in world-class hanging. It is driving technology developments internationally. The work we do in maritime shipping, exacerbates traffic, and we drive the development forward with our electric ferries, fast boating on fossil-free energy carriers and in long-distance transport, which can go on ammonia and hydrogen. We note that Norwegian businesses, different industry actors and other stakeholders are now also focusing on Europe's green giving and the many initiatives that are under development. Norwegian businesses have seized the possibilities of green shifts. This is because, through systematic work, we facilitate this by building stones on stones without dragging the carpet under the legs of the business community. Long-term objectives are important – the same as the longer-term framework conditions. This means that there is a willingness to invest in new facilities and skills on which we will build tomorrow's jobs. We build competitiveness through conversion. Government is busy combining climate and environment with growth, well-being and value creation. It is still important, because this reverse operation should form the basis for our future jobs. We are working on several processes here in Norway that intervene in the EU’s strategies. Here you can choose among others. mention circular economy, hydrogen, ammonia and biofuels. Furthermore, sea winds are now being opened up, and we see an industrial building that will open up markets – not only in the EU, but also in Asia and other parts of the world. We are also drivers of raising the level of ambition internationally and in the EU. We see the same thing for other organisations, such as the IMO, where Norway has been an active driver to set bold targets. And bold goals in technologies where we have a lead give us opportunities to strengthen our own business and maintain our well-being at the same time as we make an important contribution to achieving the global climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e768	Norwegian self-determination and space of action depend entirely on an economically robust, democratic and peaceful Europe, which interacts across borders and solves challenges jointly. It is totally unintelligible that some do not see the obvious links between economically integrated European cooperation and decades of deep peace and interaction, economic growth and social division. Once again, the European Community is strengthened by a crisis, once again after the many opponents of the community predicted its end. At the beginning of the pandemic, some tried to create a false contrast between a strong nation-state and transnational cooperation. However, successful international cooperation requires the strong national states that take responsibility for solving their own problems and at the same time contribute to addressing boundless global challenges. When the pandemic was a fact and the EU was given control speed, travel restrictions were quickly imposed between countries and export bans on medical devices to ensure its own inhabitants, while maintaining transport corridors for goods across 31 countries. When we haven't had shortcomings under the pandemic, that doesn't mean we're self-sufficient in everything, but that we're integrated into well-functioning European value chains. Many have known the corona on the body, but some of us have only known the corona body. It's not exactly food we've been missing in the last few months. The EU is now adopting a reconstruction package with a green strategy for economic growth, where they will build competitiveness through conversion – as the Norwegian Government has also done. It is in Norwegian interest that the European Union succeeds. Their historical crisis package brings the European Community closer together and has renewed the understanding of how interdependent they are on the success of the others. Like the US Marshall aid to Europe after the war, the EU's internal distribution policy is based on national self-interest, understanding that contributions to other countries are developing markets for the sale of own goods and services. The EEA Agreement ensures the opportunities of Norwegian enterprises in our largest, nearest and most integrated market. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that she has rigged our foreign stations to help Norwegian businesses identify the opportunities that exist. Our transformation, growth and value creation depend entirely on the EU’s success in its transformation, growth and value creation. Europe’s green giving makes visible an ambitious and forward-looking European community that has both the will and the means to carry out a fair green shift and get out of the crisis. Norway should, of course, be a fully-fledged part of this community and participate in the democratic institutions on which European cooperation is based, through full membership of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e783	I am pleased that the Foreign Minister, in his presentation, addressed the issues of disinformation and false news. It thrives more and more on the web, but extra clearly this is now under the pandemic. We should all be concerned that the Media Authority has found out that nearly half of all Nordics have read false news about covid-19, and that the National Safety Authority has warned about spreading false news related to just the pandemic. Most of us here are present on different social media, and there we see a large group denying the consequences of covid-19, who believe the American election is rigged, and who don't believe in sustainability goals or international cooperation – as some examples. We who are taking part in this debate here today know that they are wrong. Equally, many people out there take this disinformation as information instead of disinformation. I am pleased that the EU has therefore established its own website to correct the disinformation about covid-19, but the question is, of course, whether it addresses all the misinformation – both the conscious and the unconscious – about the extensive efforts being made today in the framework of European cooperation. The answer to that is, of course, no, and other measures must also be taken. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also addressed the importance of the rule of law for democracy and human rights in his presentation. I could choose to say something about the critical situation we see in Hungary, including. hastelover that centralizes power, but I choose instead to link some comments to the situation in Poland. There is great reason to be concerned about the deterioration of the rule of law in Poland. A number of municipalities and counties in the country have recently declared themselves LHBTI non-ideological zones. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very clear that it would not be in line with the legislation on the EEA funds to provide project funding to precisely such areas. The same thing was said in the EEA Parliamentary Committee in our resolution adopted earlier this week, in which we wrote that these kinds of decisions are not compatible with essential European values. It is important that Norway just uses its role to influence beneficiary countries through requirements for the use and management of EEA funds, where Norway is the main contributor. A good and living civil society requires respect for human rights, a well-functioning democracy and free, independent media. Therefore, these must also be important values for Norway as an indispensable requirement, and I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very clear on these issues today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e800	The EU is becoming the world’s leading climate organisation. The European Green Deal adds to a change in the EU economy that we have not seen since the New Deal in the United States in the 1930s. The EU is leading the way, and they are leading the way in a transition that is absolutely necessary, both in Norway, in Europe and in the world. As we know, Norway – unfortunately – is not part of the EU. So why should we relate to them? Simply because Norwegian welfare depends on it – because we live on exports. Without exports, Norway had looked quite different. We had had poorer schools, we had a lower quality of care for the elderly, we had a weaker health sector, and the roads had been smaller and narrower – simply because of export costs. 40 pst. of gross domestic product and finance a large part of our well-being. The EU is our most important export market, so whether we are for or against the EU is not really that relevant. It's like being for or against Germany, Poland or Italy — they're there. We sell our goods to the EU, therefore we need to strengthen our own competitiveness towards this market, because it allows us to make money and create jobs in Norway and make sure that we are green and attractive to the EU market. The fact that we are betting on CCS, that we are betting on electric cars, that we are betting on green shipping, sea wind, hydrogen and green industry, is really a cheek egg, because not only do we cut emissions, we create jobs in Norway, and we guarantee our Norwegian well-being. Climate problems know, as we know, no borders, and therefore we need to cooperate more – more with Europe and more with other countries internationally. I respect the role of the opposition, but there have been several statements from the pulpit here today that are simply not right. It is not true that Norway is following. We in the Energy and Environment Committee are so lucky that we are allowed to travel – or were allowed to travel – around the world and see how other countries do it in the climate sector. We are far ahead of most other countries. Emissions in Norway are now at their lowest level since the OL in Lillehammer approximately. It may not feel that long ago too many in the hall here, but several of our colleagues were actually not born at that time. But we have to move on. We must bet harder, and we must bet harder with Europe. To do that, we need to make it more profitable to make green choices, and we need to get idealists and capitalists to march in pace. We have to bring down the emissions from transport. Here, because of the electric revolution, we're already quite rusty, we're on the right track. Now in October was just 5 pst. of the new cars that were sold, petrol cars. In shipping, emissions are unfortunately still high, but right now, around 80 new elves glide silently along the Norwegian coast. There are now hundreds of millions more collective trips each year than when we took over the government offices. I'm optimistic. Together with the European Union, we are moving ahead. We cut emissions, and we make economic growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e815	I took the floor because I do not think that the post to the representative Tybring-Gjedde can stand undisputed. I've been sitting in my seat thinking about what words I'm going to use, and I'm using the words "political sad." I think it is politically sad to hear a representative in the Norwegian Stortinget racquet over the challenges facing the whole world and Norway in terms of the development of our climate. It goes into the range of political arguments that we unfortunately see from the right in Europe and in the United States, and which I think is why the Storting reacts. It is very important for our democracy that we have transparency, and that we naturally respect alternative political views, but as the representative Pettersen just mentioned, it is vital for the force and reality of the debate that we respect truth. If truth and scientific facts are no longer respected in political, open debate, the people's power loses its power. Then the ability of policy to act and control society and make it safer and better significantly weakened. It is also, of course, a paradox that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is among the foremost representatives of the market economy and liberal economic thinking in this Chamber. The question that arises is how it is even possible that we can continue the market economy if we do not see the fundamental challenges and changes in the organisation of the economy as the climate challenges require. It's not just about well-being, it's about economic organisation, because the prerequisite for doing this is that we stop the climate challenges, but, of course, even more so that we stop using more and more, faster and faster. It is not possible to imagine a future society based on such market economy thinking as the Tybrung-Gjedde obviously represents. Investors see this. They're now going to the green economy. It's not because they primarily think about the climate, but they see that their markets in traditional economic thinking are getting weaker, and therefore they have to go to the green economy. That's why the conclusion is: there's no future in what Tybring-Gjedde represents, in the post he made here today about climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e826	I would like to thank you for a brilliant speech by the last speaker – my colleague from Buskerud. I'm going to pick up the thread, because that's exactly what I wanted to say. It's a pretty revealing phenomenon. One of the parties here has a pronounced climate denial as the main debater to have main posts here in the hall. He talks about the EU, climate and Norwegian action here in the Chamber, thus questioning thousands of scientific reports in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. How is this possible? And I ask myself, how can this party recruit young people? How is it possible to grow for the Progress Party now, when they turn their backs on the coming generations in this way? I'll put a question mark on that. Usually it is that the Progress Party is good at capturing attitudes in society, especially in terms of dissatisfaction, and formulating simple points of view based on it. It's called nothing but simple and cut populism. But here it can happen that the Progress Party and Tybring-Gjedde are shooting their feet, doing themselves a bear service, because nine out of ten Nordics have confidence in research to solve the climate challenges. At the same time, climate change is at the top of 14 themes that people consider to be the main challenges Norway faces. It shows the climate barometer that was recently published. Now I see that other speakers from the Progress Party have signed up here on the list, so we'll see if these speakers correct the impression I've been given. So on a completely different topic — Norway and the EU. My colleague, the representative Lysbakken, took up a field where we see large shadow pages of EEA membership, namely in the labour sector, this with social dumping in the workplace, etc. But then there is another committee that now often gets EEA cases caught, and that is my committee, the transport committee. A lot of things are coming to us now, and we see that in many ways the European Union is hanging over us in all these cases. We can mention railway package IV, which means that the European Union must ultimately have the last word on Norwegian railway management. We think about the release of the taxis, for example, which is another example where reference is made to the EEA legislation. We can think of Wizz Air, which enters Norwegian aviation. It is great that the Prime Minister in some ways turns his back on such companies that do not comply with Norwegian labour law. That's great. But what do we have of tools? We're standing about the paralysis of action. So we have no tools to stop companies that we really don't want in Norway. What is this thing? And then we don't use our room of action either. I could have had a separate post about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e837	Thanks for the good stuff. The reconstruction of the European economy will give us new opportunities, including for our Norwegian businesses. It is important for the current situation that our foreign stations in Europe have been instructed to identify the possibilities for Norwegian enterprises in the next generation reconstruction package of the EU. The survey shows that many countries have significant ambitions when it comes to green conversion and digitisation. Here Norwegian companies have a wide range of interesting solutions to offer. There is a great possibility for Norway in Europe's green give. The Government has expressed full support for the greening and has clearly informed the Commission that Norway wishes to be an active and relevant EU partner in this work. That's good. We have very good intentions to contribute. It determines almost all areas and sectors of society. We can be a solid energy partner that launches new technologies for digitisation into the market. Norway has a high level of digital competence. We have good access to data and a population with high trust in both each other and the authorities. This makes us an extraordinarily interesting partner when it comes to the further development of artificial intelligence. Our participation in the dialogue on ethical guidelines and legislation – a regulatory framework that contributes to the further development and use of AI – is very important. Norway is well placed to be an integrated partner through the EEA Agreement and through the programmes in which we participate. Our research and innovation environment is already doing well in Horizon Europe, and for small and medium-sized enterprises there are now enormous opportunities for access to digital tools through the EU Digital Europe programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e848	The EU debate needs a few more shades than political discussions often take on a height. I myself am an EU opponent and my Norway does not have anything to do in the EU, but I am committed to a trade agreement with the EU because it serves Norwegian interests. A small but extremely open economy, like Norway, needs close integration with our main trading partners. In the same way as common access to the market has been important for Norway in trade policy, there are several other policy areas where it seems Norwegian interests that we have joint implementation with the EU. Climate policy is such, simply because the Norwegian starting point of the climate debate is completely different from most other countries around us. Ireland was completely deforestation, if one can call it so, early in the 1980s — a completely different challenge, when the reference year for the non-quota sector is 1990, than Norway has. Norwegian industry is largely built on renewable hydropower. When the reference year is 2005, and we have made the big, heavy grips, it is harder for Norway to make new spills compared to many countries in Europe, such as Norway. can find reduced emissions in replacing coal power with Norwegian gas. As a result, when we were in government, the Progress Party actively chose a common implementation of climate policy with the EU – because it gives Norway more flexibility if one wants to use it. But then it's amazing to witness that the party in the hall today almost overwhelms each other in how little of this flexibility one should use. The Labour Party will not use anything, but will increase Norwegian emissions obligations to 55 pst. in both the quota and non-quota sectors in a manner that opens, if not using quota flexibility, Norwegian industrial workplaces are framed. The whole intention of a joint implementation of climate policy with the EU was to have access to the flexibility that enabled us to both strengthen the competitiveness of jobs we have, create new ones, and at the same time avoid the fact that Norwegian jobs have to be outsourced as a result of such strong climate restrictions in the climate field that we cannot keep up with the kind of jobs and just make sure that they come out in another European or Asian country. If a result is to be achieved, and not just symbols of climate policy, it also requires that the other parties actually use quota flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e863	Negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United Kingdom and Norway are currently under way. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that one is working to balance the offensive interests in maritime food and the defensive interests in agriculture. The change of reply that the Minister had with the Emilie Enger Mehl of the Centre Party, I interpret so that the centre party of my agricultural interests must weigh more heavily than the fishing interests in these negotiations. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to remind you that the seafood industry is actually Norway's second most important industry after oil and gas. In 2019, Norwegian seafood was exported for 107 billion. kr. This is a significant contribution to the Norwegian economy. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of agriculture. There should therefore be no doubt about the importance of the dialogue with the United Kingdom, which is the fifth largest export market for Norwegian seafood. I mean, one's too little ambitious on behalf of the seafood industry. It applies to what one has said in this report, and the Minister of Industry Iselin Nybø answered me a written question. One may be more offensive. There is now a historic opportunity to secure both existing jobs in Norway and to provide much more, if we can increase exports to the United Kingdom. It will be important for many communities along the entire Norwegian coast that have fisheries as the main food route, and there are many. I myself come from a very fisheries-dependent community, Austevoll, and for our part it will mean an incredible amount to be able to process more Norwegian fish. Also in a climate perspective, which many people have talked about, it must be better that we have the value creation and jobs in Norway and export the finished product, than that we send the raw materials out and feed into emissions on the road, as well as that we suggest that as many as perhaps 20,000–30000 jobs for processing Norwegian fish are located in countries other than Norway. The government has a historic opportunity to use the negotiations that one is about to enter, to strengthen Norwegian seafood, to provide more jobs and to do something that will also be good for the climate. Therefore, I hope that the government will be more ambitious on behalf of the maritime industry than one has heard so far in the debate and in their answers to the questions I have asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e874	The representative Liv Signe Navarsette fought, as I understood it, that it could be quality control, for example. on fish on the border without the EEA Agreement, i.e. with a trade agreement, and then she provided two examples. One was the Faeroe Islands. But the Faeroe Islands are part of Denmark. They comply with the same legislation, so they do not control the border. The other was Switzerland. Yes, they also have an agreement with the EU. They have been approved by the EU. And what does that mean? Well, you don't get away from EU legislation if you want to export fish without it being controlled. To this dream that the opponents of the EEA Agreement, at least some of them, have said that Norway is so important that we can get it exactly as we want: it is good to have great confidence, but it is probably not such that we are so important to others that we can escape a common code as the others will follow. Take, for example: The representative Lundtigen, who says he is in favour of the free movement of labour and persons in the Nordic region, but not in the south of Denmark, so he wants to renegotiate the EEA Agreement. Yes, how realistic is that? And Dale now, who is opposed to Norway joining the EU, but he wants to cooperate with the EU on climate policy. But it's not that we can cooperate with the EU where we want to and not follow the legislation. It is the EEA Agreement that is the foundation of these areas where you want to cooperate, and that is what the British are now experiencing. We were with the EFTA Committee in London and met one of the toughest brexit champions, a State Secretary in the Ministry of Energy. One of our representatives asked, do you want to be involved in energy cooperation? The answer was, yes, we would like to. I think that answer surprised the representative who asked. It's dangerous to predict the future, but I think what we're going to see now after Brexit is a United Kingdom that's not going to want to go back to EU membership, but back in cooperation on area by area. I think that's the result. But that's what the future will show. I think we can give up the dream that if we leave the EEA Agreement, the platform for broad cooperation with the EU, we can somehow get it right where we want to. Pick and choose is not on the menu.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e885	Once again, the Central Party gets criticism in this Chamber that we will not uncritically brush on with ever more billions of dollars in transfers to the EU through the EEA Agreement. I have to say that for the government parties there is no limit. In the draft budget for next year, a budget of nearly 6 billion has been proposed. kr. It's four times as much as it was possible to use last year. Because one couldn't spend that much money last year, one just has to pee on with even more money for next year. Of course, some of the money will also be used for a reasonable project. But what's also the father when a pussy wears so much money, is that sometimes a lot of the money will be spent on a bird's box project, fencing matches, or celebrating the game's day. – There is a reason to have a critical look at how a person spends the money. I record representatives from the Riksrevision are present in the Chamber. I also hope that they will be interested in having a critical look at how a person spends public money, and especially in a situation where countries and people are in a major crisis. Now we are in the discussion about a new period of EEA funding, and about what will happen. I hope that it will be clarified what is Norway's position. For example, we should no longer have it so that, in addition to spending a lot of money with our partners Iceland and Liechtenstein, a Norwegian system of its own should be at the top of it. The Icelanders and the Liechtensteins have at least a certain limit on how much they want to contribute. Secondly, the EU has now become smaller. When the British have gone out and said that they will regain national control and build closer cooperation with Norway outside the EU, there is certainly no reason for us to increase our allocations to the EEA. On the contrary, they should be reduced. To the representative of Svein Roald Hansen, who referred to what has been said by the Central Party in relation to veterinary border controls, he himself refers to an example of a country that has obtained agreements with the EU in that area without being part of the EEA. The Swiss said no to the EEA in a referendum and negotiated their own agreements with the EU afterwards. Of course, we must have good relations with our close neighbours in Europe and have a trade agreement with the European Union, but at the same time we must have agreements that safeguard our democracy and ensure that Norway is not increasingly overrun – as is the case with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e896	Thank you for an interesting debate and for many articles from different parties. It's initializing and useful to right. I'll try to answer some of the issues that have been addressed and where answers have been asked. Firstly, the Centre Party was early up and wondered what the status of the CO 2 compensation work is. There is a state of affairs that we have now received from the European Commission on how they want the CO 2 compensation framework to be in the future. There we have had close dialogue with the Commission and also experienced, in my view, important breakthroughs for Norway, among others. when it relates to the type of activities to be included in the scheme. For example, nickel production is now inside, and it's good. So there's going to be a new round in ESA when it relates to carbon factor, which is important for Norway. We will of course follow that closely, and when the final guidelines are clear, we will consider how a Norwegian CO 2 compensation scheme should look. But there is no doubt that the government wants such a scheme. We're just still working on some of the details, and that's important. The Labour Party pointed to two things in particular. One was working on taxonomy, i.e. the EU's work on resilient finance. There is no doubt that there is an incredibly important work, which many have not fully understood the consequences of yet, in order to be completely honest. At least the government is behind the objectives of the EU Action Plan on Resilient Finance, and we are following closely. The Financial Supervisory Authority has proposed to implement the regulation establishing taxonomy in a new law on information on bearer power, which is currently being heard by the deadline in January. There are still some aspects of taxonomy that are not clear yet, among other things. the type of industries and investments to be classified. It's obviously an important work, which we also follow closely. Then the representative Barth Eide raised another very important question, about the work on a CO 2 limit adjustment mechanism. I believe it is important to say in the introduction that it is in no way clear that the EU will introduce such a mechanism, but it will be working on how it will look. What seems clear is that in that case it will apply to some selected sectors. From Norway's perspective, it's clear that this will quickly affect us. Many Norwegian companies will have significant interests in this, and it is clear that we must follow closely. For us, it is important that a possible mechanism is at least in line with WTO legislation, and that it does not thus go against an important principle of free trade. We get to follow the work and see how it lands. Finally, I am told that I fully agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen's heartbreak at the end of this debate that there are some participants in the debate that are characterized by some sort of cold board mentality, where the seemingly only is to pick and choose which parts of the EEA cooperation a like, and which parts one does not like, and say relatively yes and no to it. I think everyone who represents a party that has a seat in government has experienced that it's not necessarily the whole way it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e922	The challenges of the rule of law in some EU countries are not just a matter of value. It is also a question of making the internal market work, that we can trust each other's legal systems. But for us, it's also a very important value question. Poland and Hungary are good partners for Norway. We're allies, we work together. That's also what makes Poland and Hungary, perhaps better than many, know Norwegian positions on exactly these questions very well. We spend a lot of time on it. What is now being done from Norway with the EEA funds for Poland is that we have stopped a project in which a province has declared itself an LHBTI non-ideology zone and stopped funding for its NGOs supporting LHBTI. There we have now stopped the funds. And more can come. What's our point is that these provinces and municipalities also have organisations that support, for example. The LHBTI case. They should be able to continue to receive Norwegian support, but not the LHBTI-free municipality or province. What we are now doing with EEA funds in Poland is of considerable interest in the EU. I think that is positive, and that is of course something we are actively using in our dialogue with the EU. Interestingly, we are now seeing a situation where Poland and Hungary seem to be blocking the long-term budget and the reconstruction mechanism in the EU because new rules have now been introduced on how many votes are needed to take decisions on the conditionality mechanism. A majority is now required and no consensus is required. Then you don't get to block it, and you block the budget instead. As one Italian team said a few days ago: ‘There is a contradiction in all this blockage. If all Member States say that they respect the rule of law, there is no concrete reason to oppose conditionality.» In the case of Hungary, we see that there is now quite a lot of activity on the part of the opposition. Yesterday, there was a riot from several opposition parties asking that the Hungarian government speak on behalf of all the Hungarian people. These are positive signs and tendencies of political debate. When we stand up for our values in our clear way, we also sometimes have to take the consequences, for example. Hungary drew its support for Norway’s candidacy to the Security Council because they disagree with us on these issues. We're good at that, and we have to expect to be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e937	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e954	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e961	I first want to thank the Committee for good cooperation and that we have largely managed to agree on a major and important matter. The National Audit Office has provided a thorough and good report on the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries from 2004 to 2018, and I am pleased that the Committee and those who took part in the hearing also support the findings contained in the report. The Maritime Resource Act regulates the management of fisheries, and the aim of the law is to ensure sustainable and socially viable management, together with socio-economic profitability and employment and settlement in coastal communities. The fisheries and seafood industry is the second most important export industry for Norway and, if it is managed in a sustainable manner, it will be everlasting. It is not as easy to achieve all of these objectives, which is also reflected in the study. Sustainable harvesting and management of fish stocks have therefore established themselves as an overall objective. Until the early 2000s, fishing fleet profitability was low, especially in coastal fishing fleets. The entire fishing fleet had large overcapacity. Since the closure of the fishery and the introduction of measures to reduce the number of fishing vessels, the harvest is today sustainable and profitable for all groups of vessels. Employment is significantly higher than for other industries in Norway. The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess how the quota system respects the principle of fisheries policy, but the main findings of the Riksrevision are clear that there are challenges. Changes in the quota system have contributed to major vessels, which in turn have resulted in landings for most groups of vessels being concentrated to fewer vessels. This, in turn, has contributed to geographical concentration by increasing activity in some coastal communities, while in others it has been reduced. Overall, fewer fishing receptions and fishing industry holdings in the wild fish industry have been established at national level. However, the structure of the fishing fleet has been necessary to improve profitability and to adapt to general social developments, with increased efficiency and profitability requirements. This is not a specific feature of the fishing industry, but a development of most industries has been achieved. Wages and salaries are also essential for maintaining a viable fishing industry and facilitating employment and housing in rural areas. The report presented by the National Audit Office shows that all ship groups have grown in recent years. Developments also have natural causes, with more efficient and safer vessels, increased convenience and reduced workload. The current practice of allocation of allowances has been similar over a long period of time and under several governments by different political majority. There was a debate in spring on the quota notification to be dealt with at the same time as this report from the Riksrevision. I'm glad we didn't wait for that, and that several of the changes that were made in ours also meet part of the criticism from the Riksrevision. Employment in the fishing industry has been relatively stable over the period due to an increase in the total quota of wild fish and an increase in the production of farmed salmon. This applies even though the number of fishing industry holdings in both the wild fish industry and the farming industry has decreased. Good management of the fish stock has led to an increase in quotas over the last few years. It is worrying that the profitability of the fishing industry is still low, although consolidation has also taken place here. A differentiated fishing fleet is important in order to ensure raw material access to the fishing industry, but a fleet consisting of ever fewer and larger vessels also means that many small coastal receptions and industrial establishments will no longer be able to operate the large vessels. It is important that the fishing industry is present throughout the country. The study also shows that there is no clear link between the settlement of owners of fishing vessels and the landing of fish. Often fish will be landed elsewhere than where the quotas may belong, most often for practical reasons, such as: proximity to the fishing ground. Several hearing bodies addressed the importance of access to raw materials. This is best ensured through a varied fleet structure. Another factor affecting the processing of fish in Norway is the level of costs, in particular labour costs. It has a big impact on how much fish are processed. Ownership restrictions also exist in the sea fishing fleet. Similar restrictions have been proposed for coastal fleets, but so far they have not been introduced. I could say a lot here in 5 minutes, but I finally want to say that I am pleased that the Council of State takes the criticism from the Riksrevision seriously and is prepared to make a thorough assessment of the recommendations made by the Riksrevision. I am also pleased that the Committee has put together a proposal in which we are today asking the Council of State to come back with proposals on how best to follow up these recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1001	Let me first thank the case spokesperson for a clean and good job of getting the most complete setup possible. The National Audit Office's investigation covers the period 2004-2018. Criticism is blatant, and he frames most of the parties. I think the committee will be able to see the cabinet where it should stand when a consensus determines that the Council of State's interpretation of the marine resource law is wrong. In response to the Riksrevision, the Council of State states that it is ‘to be interpreted as meaning that, overall, fisheries policy is to contribute to the regional ring-effects of fisheries that are greater than would have happened without such a fisheries policy’. To this end, the Committee says that such an interpretation ‘is not in line with Storting’s intentions with the law’. For my part, I would like to add: the requirements of the Law for employment and construction are a direct objective, not an indirect objective that can be met by the use of the surplus in fisheries for rural policy in general. The National Audit Office’s investigation shows two objectives that one has in the law – good resource management and profitability. We've achieved that through the allowance system. It's in the third area, employment and settlement in the coastal communities, but we haven't been happy as well. There have been fewer and larger boats, fewer fishermen, but a prisoner of the same amount of fish. In isolation, this means an intentional increase in productivity, which is also a means of maintaining employment and resuscitation through the fisheries policy. Anyway, that's where we didn't get it. It increases fishing productivity, we have not managed to combine well enough with the goal of maintaining employment and housing in the districts. The Riksrevision describes a vicious circle. One states that the development of fleets with increasing fishing vessels has led to the loss of the ability of many small coastal receptions and industrial holdings to retain this part of the fleet. This in turn means that the distance from the fishing grounds and from the municipality of origin to the remaining fishers becomes too large, which in turn leads to the sale of vessels or to the move closer to the reception of fish. This re-introduces a sluggish coastal settlement. It is clear from the investigation into the Riksrevision that only in the smallest coastal fleet is there a clear link between the housing of fishing boat owners and the place where a landing fish. The National Audit Office's investigation clearly shows that if we are to achieve the objective of coastal communities' integration and employment, we are highly dependent on the smallest fleet. To ensure sufficient raw material for the fishing industry, with 10000 added, we depend on a fleet that can also deliver to the smallest. Then we have to have a quota system that can take care of it. Another challenge for this industry is market access to Europe, which is our largest market. Here we have a bad shoe, as fish are not fully covered by the EEA Agreement. On the one hand, the agreement provides an unbureaucratic approach to maritime food to the EU by being covered by EU veterinary legislation. The Agreement also provides for tariff reductions and free allowances in several areas compared to non-EEA trade. But in other areas, the customs barriers are too high. Norway’s former industrial flagship, the hermetic industry based on mackerel and herring, is met with customs duties of between 20 and 25 p.p., and then it is completely impossible to compete. At the same time, we have a further processing industry, with Norwegian owners and Norwegian raw material, which is on a row and row just above the Swedish border. When the fish products we buy at the store are produced abroad, based on Norwegian fish, it is not good enough. But without the EEA agreement, it would be even worse. So it's important that we call about him. At least he'll take care of what we have. Finally, I would like to mention the reference to the Riksrevision that the ministry has not adequately distributed the consequences of the changes in the allowance system before the changes have been made. They write that this is very critical, which is a very powerful correction. In our opinion, this criticism also frameworks the quota notification that Stortinget has just addressed. Several of the things that were then adopted have created confusion, and there is great uncertainty about the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1020	Ingerd Schou had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1025	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive and good cooperation. In this report, the national audit has looked at the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries. The study has looked at the extent to which the quota system and its changes have affected the objectives set for fisheries policy. The quota system is a finurous system designed to ensure a sustainable stock of fish. Therefore, rules are in place for who can fish, when it can be fished, how and how much can be fished. Through the quota system, the authorities regulate how the total quota is allocated among operators in the industry. The Marine Resource Act states that the management of fishing resources should achieve three main objectives: sustainable fish stocks, socio-economic profitability, and management should ensure employment and settlement in coastal communities. The report of the Riksrevision shows that there can easily be target conflicts between the objectives set for fisheries management. This is made visible in the main findings of the report. The report reads that changes in the quota system over the period 2004-2018 have contributed to increased profitability in the fishing fleet. That's goal achievement, and that's good. However, it also appears that some coastal communities have been reduced in fishing activity and that established fisheries policy principles have been challenged by the fact that the ownership of quota vessels is on fewer hands. Vessels with quotas are owned to a lesser extent by registered fishermen and vessels are smaller and larger. The link between vessel and quota has also been weakened. The national audit considers that several changes to the allowance system were not sufficiently consistent before a decision was taken. It is a fact that the profitability of the fishing fleet has increased considerably in recent years. This is mainly due to the change which allows several allowances to be collected on one vessel. Fishery fleet actors and their stakeholder organisations have been drivers of many of the changes that have led to increased profitability. It is agreed that profitability is essential to maintain a viable fishing industry and to facilitate employment and housing in the districts. At the same time, it is important to monitor changes and developments in the fisheries policy which may undermine the other fisheries policy objectives. In this respect, I would like to refer to the comment of the Committee, which points out the importance of thorough impact assessments before a decision is taken on changes to the quota system. The Committee follows with this note the clear recommendation of the Riksrevision to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries to focus more on this matter. Reports from the Riksrevision are studies which have been carried out a little in time, investigating whether departments and establishments have followed up what the Stortinget has decided. With this background, there are some comments from the opposition that we in the Right are not in because it does not relate to the content of the report. But in order for there to be no doubt, I will be clear from this pulpit that the Right – in line with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – is committed to ensuring seriousness and decent pay and working conditions both in the fishing fleet and in the fishing industry. Good control is important to detect the crime of working life and not to exploit people. There we're completely in line with the opposition, even though we haven't gone into this comment. The national review of the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries is an important document that points to key issues surrounding fisheries policy during the period covered by the survey, from 2004 to 2018. The Council of State said in the hearing that he took the Riksrevisions report seriously, and that he would include both criticism and recommendations in the further work, and that promises well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1040	It is the marine resource law that regulates the management of fishing here in the country. The aim of the laws is to ensure a viable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources and the associated genetic material. The law is based on the principle that the fish is a resource belonging to the community of Norway. So it has been since the Frostings Act, all the way back to the 1100s. An important consideration in the management of fish quotas is to secure the material basis for Sami culture. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. The entire Committee has agreed to take up the promise of Storting's intention, as it was adopted in 2008. The objective of a socially viable management of fish quotas means that the framework provides for an enterprise that will provide a surplus for society. The size also said that it is natural that the management of fishing resources is affected by the employment and settlement of coastal communities. We are now handling a report from the National Audit Office that shows that there has been no such report. Changes in the quota system over the period 2004-2018 have resulted in an increase in the profitability of the fishing fleet. At the same time, the basic principles of fisheries policy have been challenged. The ownership of fishing vessels with quotas is concentrated and vessels with quotas are to a lesser extent owned by registered fishermen. The fleet structure is less varied. The boats are getting smaller and bigger. The national audit points out that this leads to difficulties in recruiting new fishermen and that the changes in the smallest coastal fleet have had a negative impact on many coastal communities. Several fisheries-dependent coastal communities have been reduced in fishing activity. The Council of State does not agree with the Riksrevision in this and believes that the objective of the marine resource law must be interpreted as bringing together the fisheries policy to make a contribution to the fisheries sector's regional repercussions, which are greater than what would happen without such a fisheries policy. I'm glad that the committee decides that the state council's appointments are not in line with Storting's intentions with the law. Quota policy has been a policy for the fleet and not a policy to secure the value chain in fisheries as a basis for society's profitability and employment and coastal communities. I would also like to highlight the Riksrevision's criticism that many of the changes in the quota system have been implemented without adequate coverage of the consequences. The size has given wide powers to fisheries management to manage the quota system flexibly, in line with stock changes. Fisheries management employs these powers to make changes to legislation and regulations without evaluating the consequences in advance or evaluating them afterwards. This change has led to a development contrary to the objective of the law. In the committee hearing, it was also found that it is not clear how the fisheries management system grants exemptions for the legislation it administers under mandate. This means that the fisheries management has many roles, and there are too few external input into the design of the quota policy. It is the main reason why the Committee is now withdrawing parts of the trust in fisheries management from this room. The Committee proposes that the government should come back with proposals on how the recommendations contained in the report should be followed up in a way that takes care of the three objectives of the marine resource laws and creates confidence in management both in the Storting, small and large operators and in the fishing industry. I expect the Council of State has already assessed how this should be done and expect the recommendations of the National Audit Office to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1057	We know how important the fishing industry is for the country, with 11,000 fishermen and 6,000 vessels delivering fish for 21 billion. kr. Fishing has created values and work along our coasts throughout our history as a nation, and the importance of fishing for Norway cannot be exaggerated and will only become more important in the future. This is where this national audit report is concerned, crucial policy issues, for the prosperity created by fishing resources, should also be distributed fairly in favour of employment and value creation in coastal communities and districts. The Marine Resource Act states that the management of fisheries resources has three objectives: it has to be sustainable — it comes first. Furthermore, it shall be profitable and lead to employment and residence in coastal communities. But the Riksrevision once shows a serious development in which the fish itself and the values of the fish are collected on fewer hands and centralised in fewer places – a development that many in this industry have talked about and made up for a long time. That's why it makes sense to hear about fishermen from the coastal communities who were crying when they read this report, because they finally felt thought. The report is very clear that the policy and management of fisheries resources in recent years have led to challenges for established fisheries policy principles. Yes, profitability has increased, but profitability for whom? Ownership of quota vessels is concentrated on fewer hands, the fleet structure is less varied and the vessels are fewer and larger. In particular, the coastal fishing fleet has been hit. The consequence of this is that coastal communities are affected. The report finds that the landing of fish is concentrated to fewer fish recipients, the number of receptions that had recorded cod catches was reduced by 25 pst. from 2014 to 2018, it was received less and more and the larger receptions receive a greater share of the landing than before. Nine municipalities have lost all fishing facilities during the survey period – nine municipalities. And the centralisation of fishing receptions affects the coastal fishing fleet, and at the same time it goes beyond the values of land. There are fewer fishing industries in the wildfish industry at national level, and 29 municipalities have lost all the wildfish industry. It is therefore clear that one objective of the Sea Resource Act has been weakened – that the fisheries policy should contribute to employment and settlement in coastal communities. It's been weakened. The National Audit Office points to a number of concrete policy changes that have contributed to this. That is why it is also a matter of control and not only a political debate of party importance. The principles of fisheries policy and the purpose of the Sea Resource Act are the size that has been determined, and this is what the government has to follow, but here the Riksrevision shows a completely different picture. The Committee does not share the interpretation of the Marine Resource Act by the Council of State — and it is worth noting. In response to the National Audit Office and in the audit hearing we also had on the matter, the Council of State tries to explain the decline in activity in coastal communities with depopulation and 'demographic trends', as it says so nicely. So I asked KS at the hearing, and they were very clear that it's at least equally likely that it's the opposite, that the centralization of the fish on the contrary has led to deportation. And it's obvious, because it's about the life base of a lot of people along the coast. I also want to mention recruitment to the industry at the end. I started by saying that the fishing industry will only become more important in the future, but if that is to happen, young people must have the opportunity to get into the fishing in a simple and straightforward way. They have to be able to go in when the generation before they go out. However, when a quota for coastal cod fishing for a boat of 11 metres can cost between 3 and 4 million. kr, it's clear that the way to start up is going to be long for a lot of young people. This is also pointed out by the National Audit Office. This national audit report should become a watershed. I am pleased that the Committee agrees with the findings and, in particular, that the Committee asks the government to follow these recommendations very clearly, this could be the beginning of a new era of growth in employment and housing, hope and optimism in coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1080	The review by the National Audit Office of the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries is a very important document. It raises entirely key issues in the field of fisheries policy, which are led by changing governments and economies of scale in the period 2004–2018. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the development of Norwegian fisheries has not occurred in a vacuum over these years. It is a asserted principle, regardless of government configurations, that the ongoing formulation of the fisheries policy takes place in close and good dialogue with the industry itself. Among the recommendations made by the Riksrevision in the report, there is a particular need for thorough impact assessment of changes to the allowance system that should be underlined. Recommendations to assess measures to maintain the importance of the smallest coastal fleet for coastal communities, including: by looking at owner-concentration restrictions on the coastal fleet, is also important for the Christian People's Party. We are pleased that the Minister for Fisheries and Food, in his reply to the Riksrevision, supports those recommendations. At the same time, we note that in some of the comments, an overall Committee on Control and Constitution gives important signals to the government and the ministry. Whereas a Joint Committee supports the proposal for a new system replacing the length of the navigable length of the coastal fleet, the Committee also states that, at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the resources are allocated to the various navigable groups in a manner which meets the objective of maintaining a varied fleet structure; As we see it, this means that consideration of the allocation of resources between the new actual vessel length groups in the coastal fleet must be included as part of the decision-making basis for the development of a legislation on the set-aside of structural quotas at the end of the time limit. Furthermore, an overall committee shows that the requirement of the Act of Participation on active fishermen means that the industry cannot buy into the fishing fleet in the same way that the fishermen can buy into the fishing industry. This means that enterprises owned by fishermen can gain a competitive advantage by ensuring access to raw material in relation to the other fishing industry, even if the land-based industry is able to purchase as a minority in fishing vessels. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that fishermen are more likely to start or buy fish industry activities on land, and the Committee sees that this could create unfair distortions of competition. The fact that a joint committee points out that issue is something that fishermen's organisations and fish sales teams should note. A development in which an increasingly large part of the resource base goes beyond the auction and sales channels of the fish sales teams, through self-acquisition of catches, and that the fishing side increasingly establishes reception facilities and the fishing industry to handle its own raw materials is also worrying to us in the Christian People's Party. In the long term, such developments could undermine the important principle of the Participant Act and the Fish Sales Act on a fishing ewe fleet, and that the fishermen’s side should have the last word in setting prices on raw materials. Finally, in its report, the National Audit Office addresses several issues relating to the development of Norwegian fisheries. However, it is important that one also reminds one another how well things are actually going in the Norwegian fishing industry. The report concludes that there is good profitability in all fleet groups, from the smallest to the largest seagoing vessel. We have a fishing fleet that performs sustainable fishing on our fishing resources, with a high degree of efficiency and productivity. The picture is really bright. This is an industry that has a future ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1097	The National Audit Office’s review of Norwegian fisheries management uses the second most powerful category of criticism: ‘Founded fisheries policy principles have been challenged. ‘In plain text, this means that the government commits a crime. The national audit confirms, as many have said for several years, that the fisheries policy has gone in the wrong direction. And the quota message, which was knocked through in the Storting of the government parties and the Progress Party in ours, takes us on the same wrong course. A year ago, I was in Vardø, the site of the coastal uprising, where people along the coast have stood up in protest because fishing resources are privatised and end up on ever fewer hands – that coastal communities are deprived of resources, and that twenty families today own half of the country's quotas. What this matter is about is a matter of strategic importance for Norway as a nation, namely whether the fish in the sea will again belong to the people, or whether a dozen hungry quota barons will get away with the profit. Norway has huge sea areas, with some of the world's richest fisheries. But Vardø, like many communities along the Finnmark coast, is closest to the most fishing areas in the world, but does not have the opportunity to live off the fish. When a fishing town like Vardø cannot live from the fishing resources, there is something fundamentally wrong with the country’s fisheries management. What has happened is a run of the community's resources, which has enriched billionaires such as Kjell Inge Smoke and Helge Mögster and deprived the coastal communities of the basis for employment and housing in the future. That's what we want to turn around. The fish must be returned to the community, which can secure and create activity along the whole coast – even where it has now been partially shaved – and benefit the people in the future. The Riksrevision takes a rather crushing judgment on Norwegian fisheries policy when it finds that: Increased quota prices have made it more difficult to recruit new fishermen. Changes in the smallest coastal fleet have a negative impact on coastal communities. Several fisheries-dependent municipalities have reduced fishing activity. Several changes to the allowance system are insufficiently determined by the ministry. Following a strong pressure from the Red Sea, the Stortinget decided in spring that the government would carry out an impact assessment of the parts of the fisheries policy that have not been investigated before implementing the quota notification decisions. We're looking forward to this. The government also asked the UK Government to come back to the UK with proposals for the follow-up of the National Audit Office's recommendations in a way that ensures both sustainable and socially viable management of the wild marine resources and employment and settlement in coastal communities. This must be done, because what is happening to our fishing resources today is serious. We know that the accumulation of ownership in the jet fleet increased sharply from 2004 to 2018. Today, ten companies can beam up 80 pst. of the cod trawl quotas. Trawl destroys the seabed, takes other species and emits much more CO 2 than the coastal fleet. When trawlers squeeze out small ones, the consequence is that fish are frozen and sent to China unprocessed, where it is filled with water and chemicals before returning to Europe. This is industrial policy and climate policy in reverse countries. What Red wants is a rich coastal fishing and the supply of fish to businesses in our coastal communities. Value creation in Norway is increasing when coastal communities are allowed to transform fish into quality products. It creates livelihoods for coastal fishermen and people along the coast. While the government and the Advance Party accept this, the right to fish in the future is being privatized. Neither the coastal communities nor the Red will be involved. This fight is very close.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1134	The national audit carried out a thorough examination of the quota system in Norwegian fisheries. We all agree on that, and that's good. Nor has the national audit revealed any offences in the fisheries management. It's also very good, and I'm very happy about that. The survey period covers many years, from 2004 to 2018, and includes a large number of decisions taken by no less than three different governments and five majorities. In other words, the criticism by the National Audit Office of the development of Norwegian fisheries is affecting most political parties. The National Audit Office's report is based on the three main objectives of fisheries policy, such as: is reproduced in the provisions of the Maritime Resource Act and the Participant Act. We all agree that these objectives are very important. The challenge arises when the targets exceptionally draw in different directions, and here I think we are at the heart of what the Riksrevision is most concerned with in its report. There will of course be the most focus on what can be improved in such a national audit report. For example, do we have: has been sufficiently successful with regard to employment in coastal communities, which is one of the objectives of the Marine Resource Act? However, I want to focus also on things that are going well, because it is now that we have succeeded very much in Norwegian fisheries policy and in Norwegian fishing industry. We must not forget that either. Compared to the situation 30 years ago, a lot has been achieved, although there are still points of improvement, and I think we also need to include it in the discussion. I am very pleased that the Riksrevision has concluded that the change in the allowances system has contributed to increased profitability. Increased profitability is the best starting point for more investment, more development, more activity and more coastal employment. In other words, we have succeeded here, of course in good cooperation with the fishing industry. It provides a very good basis for growth in employment and activity along the coast. We have also succeeded in the sustainable management of our fish stocks. The fishing boats have become more modern, the working conditions better, and the fishermen serve well. This is also very important to include in the discussion. There have also been changes in Norwegian society in the last 16 years. This affects the fishing industry as all other industries. Aspects such as demography, new technologies, trade policy, market access, exchange rates and prices of raw materials play a part in this development. Let it be quite clear: I think it is very good that the Riksrevision is looking for conditions that can be criticised, that is, things that can be done better. I also take the criticism seriously and will provide an in-depth assessment of all the concrete recommendations on follow-up that the Riksrevision brings with it. I have also made this clear on every occasion after the report was submitted in April. Fisheries management is already assessing the more concrete recommendations of the National Audit Office for action. For example, the Fisheries Directorate is currently looking at whether ownership rules should be introduced in the coastal fleet and how this can be done in the event. The Directorate has also carried out an assessment of the so-called new-building leased vessel regime, and we will also assess the other follow-up points of the Riksrevision. It will also be appropriate to carry out general consultations for part of these actions. I have also registered that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee wants me to come back to Stortinget with proposals on how we will follow up the recommendations of the Riksrevision, and of course I will. At the same time, I ask for understanding that I can't say anything right now about the time or the way we get back to Stortinget. We need to get back to that after we've taken the time to make good impact assessments. Finally, it has to be mentioned that the quota notification adopted in Stortinget has already followed up something from the Riksrevision, for example. decided to phase out the co-fishing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1163	The Vesterålen magazine writes the following about the quota notification and the work on the national audit report: ‘Fischerriminister Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen has not understood what Stortinget wants with the fisheries policy. It is the opinion of the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee at Stortinget. It asks the Minister to provide an administration that creates confidence throughout the industry.’.» I heard the minister now talk about much that he thinks is good, and that has emerged in the Riksrevision's very clear criticism of the administration. What I didn't hear him say anything about was what he thinks is serious in that criticism. It shows that the large ones have become larger, which has been criticized over time, especially from the Workers' Party. It shows that coastal communities have been weakened, without the intention of the Storting. It also says something about excessive mismanagement, when it refers to how one has worked with the consequences of the decisions. My question is: which of the things has been criticised, does the Minister for Fisheries think is serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1175	Based on the three main objectives of the Marine Resource Act, what we have done least is to get employment in coastal communities. That's perhaps what's been stuck as the most serious thing in the National Audit Office's report. The National Audit Office points out that activity has been reduced in some coastal communities. What's not mentioned that much, for example. by the representative Myrseth, is that things are going very well in other coastal communities, where there has been a positive development. I'm trying to balance the discussion, because a little bit of reality is that the Solberg government is essentially continuing the fisheries policy we inherited from the Stoltenberg government, including the Myrseth party. Criticism may appear to apply only to this government, but it affects relations far back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1180	The last thing you're actually not allowed to say. This government has not inherited the Labour Party policy, and it appears very well. A little bit of the difference between those who have previously ruled in the government, and this government is that one realizes that something may have happened that has not been the result you wanted. But me and the Labour Party want to do something about this criticism – it doesn't want the Minister for Fisheries to do that. For example, in October it was now sent to consult with the open group, asking the industry to compensate for the loss of the sea fishing fleet when it comes to the quota notification. Why was it not included in the processing of the quota notification worldwide? The fishing team has called this insolent, has said that it is incomprehensible that you are doing it now, and it creates unrest. Why do you bring this now? Does the Minister for Fisheries agree with the Fiskerlage that this is inexorable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1187	I would like to mention first of all that this government is mainly continuing the resource allocation that has been between ship groups for a long time. The decision taken in relation to the treatment of the notification of allowances has strengthened the open group’s quota base by obtaining a fixed percentage of the total quota, as opposed to the previous one. That is, the larger fleet is involved and carries part of the resource funding of what is going to be an open group. With regard to the specific question about the Fiskerlag, I have not seen your statement, so I cannot answer that. The most important thing we have to do is to increase processing of Norwegian fish, increase activity in coastal communities. Vardø has been cited as an example: they have been given increased landing of fish from 10 to 15 years ago, but they have not managed to turn it into more jobs. There is a bit of the challenge that policy needs to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1196	When I belong to the State Council, I do not belong to a government council that has received strong criticism from the National Audit Office. I belong to a government council that may sound more like a communication advisor to governments in the past. But it's actually the sitting state council that's going to answer, and I thought that a crass criticism that he's got here is more serious. In connection with the processing of the allowance notification, a strange decision was made, namely that what has been agreed by the bulk of the allowance, but which has not been properly settled, should be settled afterwards. Then I would like the Council of State to take care of what matters were decided during the processing of the allowance notification, which is now in the process of resolving, so that one comes to the meeting of criticism from the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1203	This applies, inter alia, to: the transition to actual length, in combination with the redistribution of structural gains, which comes for the first time around the year 2027. These are complicated matters, but we will come out with a hearing note on it in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1208	The National Auditorate has done a thorough job and assessed on the basis of the three main objectives of the Marine Resource Act. I guess we can pretty much confirm that we've followed up. Socio-economic profitability and employment and settlement in coastal communities are the other two that may not have been thought to have been properly followed up. The proportion of landings of fresh raw materials has increased significantly over the period, but we have not been able to translate it into social profitability, into jobs. Should we turn to countries in order to increase employment and housing in coastal communities, in order to meet the last two main objectives of the Marine Resource Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1215	I would say that we have succeeded with two out of three: profitability – or business profitability, as we say – and sustainable stock management. What remains is getting more employment out of the increased profitability. It must also be said that only profitable jobs are permanent jobs, and this government has no intention of establishing the state fishing industry. We've tried that before, and it hasn't worked out, so in many ways we're addicted to facilitating that people who want to invest, make an effort and create something, can convert the fish that's landed, so take an increased value chain. Then we are again dependent on getting market access and low customs duties. So it's a composite picture and no simple answer. But it's very important that we focus on getting to exactly what the Riksrevision points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1222	I noticed that the council said no promises were broken. But here we are looking at a report from the National Audit Office that just points out that the principle of law is broken. The law's broken. The control committee then carried out a thorough review of the report and found that the principle of law is broken. So there's no reason to say that the law is not broken, because the law is broken, the principle is broken. The Storage intensity is not followed. Nothing has happened. A cohesive control committee, which is going to have a consensual collapse in its back, simply concludes that the government must now come back with remedial measures and correct the bias that has developed over time, which does not have our socio-economic profitability, which has been freed from coastal communities, which have not kept up the principles we have for fisheries policy, and that there must now come a case back to the Stortinget. Is it not very critical for the government that one has missed that overall on its own assessment of the fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1229	There may be reason to stress to the representative that the criticism raised in the report relates to decisions taken in 2008. So the point is, how do we look forward to achieving the purposes we have in the Marine Resource Act, even better than what we've been given today? Then, as the opposition tends to focus one-sidedly on the negative things, my job was to find out that positive things have also happened, and that we have succeeded with a lot. I have repeatedly said that I take the criticism seriously, very seriously, and that of course we will come back to Stortinget with a follow-up in line with the position of the Control Committee. Then I would like to say that there are many opportunities in the Norwegian fishing industry. I think the best starting point we now have for creating more jobs and more activity is just that we have profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1239	The Riksrevision's hard criticism is in place. The law has not introduced market governance but political decision-making processes. The consequences of this policy conversion need to be analysed. The government’s strong market thinking has, without legislative change, torpedoed the governance obligation of the marine resource law. When will the department ensure compliance with the law again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1244	The National Audit Office's report does not mention a single crime. Then there's a discussion of the intention in the law. However, we take it with us that the control committee unanimously believes that we have not interpreted the law correctly, so we will return to Stortinget when it comes to that particular matter. I want to say that one of the things that is important is that we continue to work to improve market access for Norwegian fish, so that we can get more processing. That's a really important point. In addition, we need to ensure that we have stable access to raw materials for the industry, for example: by means of the fresh fish scheme, the live fish scheme, the bonus scheme and other measures. I feel that it's really a fairly broad political intention to do what we want to do, but there's a bit of unilateral criticism from the opposition here related to relationships and decisions that have been made far back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1253	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1260	It is very good that we have received this report. This report clearly states that the Stortinget has set a policy for fisheries policy, a look at the means of action used by the Stortinget, whether we have taken the path we wanted to go – and then the answer is no. One of the problems is that one has seen too little impact on the changes in the legislation that one has made. When we got this report, which I am very pleased that we got, and which is to be a good basis for building future fisheries policy, it was just before the Stortinget was going to deal with the quota notification, so we should have a comprehensive review of the whole policy. It's very special: a report says that there is a lot of criticism, that one has not worked out the consequences well enough, and then makes the majority on the Stortinget, i.e. the government party and their loyal support party, the Progress Party, many decisions in connection with the fisheries policy, and then they come the same day with a new decision, which they say that if a decision that we don't know the consequences of today, it's very nice if the department does the consequences before it is implemented. It is a very special way of looking at such a great and important nourishment and dealing with politics. These things are related, the different elements are interconnected, and one now sees that there is concern in Fisheries-Noreg as a result of the policy of the four fisheries-policy spokespersons Tom-Christer Nilsen, Steinar Riten, André N. Skkelstad – and with the support of Bengt Rune Strifeldt – there was some talk about when they were negotiating. Now there is concern in Fisheries Norway about the direction they have pointed out, because they had not looked at the consequences of the policy they adopted before they adopted it. So now it's going to be discussed distribution between small boats and large boats, and it's going to be discussed what we're going to do with the quotas when we're going to go from the permit length to the actual length. It would be an idea to do what the Center Party says we should have done, and do what the Riksrevision says one should do, simply figure out: what is the consequence of this? The four gentlemen who put and negotiated this will be standing again as someone who caused unrest in Fisheries-Noreg. I believe there is a need for a new course, which takes the Riksrevision and Stortinget seriously and which lays the basis for a new fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1271	The fisheries and seafood industry is an incredibly important industry for the nation of Norway and is its second largest export industry — oil and gas. The Norwegian quota system and the Norwegian fisheries policy have grown over decades through constant adaptations and initiatives to address changes in resource base, industry and society. The National Audit Office has done a thorough job and reviewed Norwegian fisheries policy in the period 2004 to 2018. During this period and during the previous period, fisheries were converted into a system that is better adapted to the resource base, in order to ensure the profitability of the fishing fleet. The changes have led to better resource management and increased profitability of the fishing fleet, while at the same time established fisheries policy principles have been challenged. The National Audit Office criticises the practices previously carried out in the Norwegian fisheries policy under changing governments and across party boundaries. Unfortunately, some of these changes cannot be reversed. Norwegian fishing industry has had a formidable development over the past 30 years, from being a highly subsidised industry to being a fully regulated and nearly non-subsidised industry that is very well established in global competition. There is a shift in the industry itself that has borne the costs and a shift that has been necessary to increase the profitability of the ship and ensure sustainable harvesting and management. The overall development of social efficiency has an impact on the number of fishermen and vessels. At the same time, structural changes in society, such as: relocation, affected employment and the settlement of coastal communities. There have been different challenges in coastal communities in the country. As the Riksrevision also points out in its report, the fishing industry is also affected by external circumstances. The Marine Resource Act states that the management of fishing resources shall ensure three main objectives: sustainable fish stocks; socio-economic profitability employment and residence in coastal communities We have over time had a sustainable harvest and management of the populations, but creating safe land-based jobs is challenging. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that an increasing proportion of the catch is processed in Norway. There is currently good profitability in all ship groups, and there is also good profitability compared to other industries. A profitable fishing fleet is a prerequisite for socio-economic profitability and for the industry to contribute to employment and residence in coastal communities. If you want to meet the last two main objectives, it makes sense to focus more on the land and industry, which is far too small today. Ensuring socio-economic profitability and increasing employment and housing in coastal communities will be fulfilling if a profitable rural industry is created that also creates full-time rural jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1302	This issue is about something as important as our resources, about the management of our resources and how we have driven the development of fisheries policy over time. It's about who's going to manage our resources, about the social contract itself, about administration and building community. The aim, of course, must be to strengthen coastal communities. Not least, we need to strengthen coastal communities in areas where resources actually are. The challenge is that the boats are getting bigger, the small ones are getting smaller, and it has become more expensive and more difficult to get into the industry. It's the wrong course. But we have the best assumptions for success. That's why of course a lot is good, because that's not what we're talking about right now – whether everything is bad or good. We are talking about the things that have now received very strong criticism, and I think that deserves a greater seriousness than what I experience comes from the government. The national audit therefore points out that the central fisheries policy is the challenge: that there is too strong a concentration of ownership and that fisheries-dependent communities are weakened. It's serious. It is particularly serious when the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries is criticised for the lack of impact assessment of the changes in the quota policy. Among other things, it does. that National Auditor Foss has said: ‘It is serious that the sum of the changes to the allowance system has had a negative impact on the fishing activity. We have, among other things, received fewer and larger vessels." I wonder if it is so bad to the right. Is it a negative consequence that the large ones have grown and that many fishing communities have been weakened? Is that what makes you want to talk about everything you think is good instead of how to tackle these challenges? When we dealt with the quota notification, it was clearly warned against doing what you did, because you didn't take into account the consequences the Riksaudition points to, in this room. That's the case. And what's the consequence of that? Well, there's a lot of uncertainty yet. Just what I said instead, the one with an open group – that you should now have a discussion about compensating for a decision you made in the quota notification – I find it strange, and the Minister for Fisheries must answer that. The fisherman's team says this is untidy, the fishing boat says we have to be compensated, and the fisherman's team Nord says they won't be compensated. We need to clarify this. But the mess continues – there is still a piecewise and divided policy that applies. To get a new course – as we need it, it deserves the coast – we need a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1315	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1325	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1337	The President will propose that the presentations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Climate and Environment on important EU and EEA matters, held in Stortinget on 17 November 2020, be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1390	I'm so lucky I live in one of Norway's top floors. From here I look a long way around, even all the way to Tiger City. That's where we see the consequences of the government's structures. In the first six years of this government’s reign, Oslo’s birthrate has increased by 59 000, while the corresponding figures for Finnmark are roughly 1 300 souls. The government's taking a bad turn. The number of participating vessels shall be reduced. The impact assessment of the policy has not been carried out by the government. The goal seems to be to strip Coast Norway for jobs, and then the people's movement goes to bigger urban centers of itself. The closure of fishing through the concession arrangements appears to be a central part of the plan. The removal of the recruitment system in the fishing industry shall strangle the desire to continue one of Norway’s most profitable industries in the generations that come after us. With the few open fisheries that remain, there are crumbs offered to the future generations. These are located on the border of the eddy helmet. It has to be made so expensive for the recruits that no one even thinks about starting up. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the introduction of the co-fishing system has been one of the most radical changes in the smallest coastal fleet in cod fishing. The Riksrevision believes it is highly critical that the co-fishing system has been operating for more than 10 years and has in practice acted as a structural scheme. The purpose of the co-fishing system was that small vessels could cooperate on quota utilisation without sufficient capacity. Although the scheme does not aim to facilitate a hidden transfer of allowances between vessels, it was a major event. When the central party says that the arrangement must be put to a successful conclusion, it is precisely to avoid destroying those who have bought a new boat and have crew on the basis of this provision. The system must therefore be followed closely in the future, with good control. When the allowances for the smallest fleet receive a decent increase, it must be removed. The centre party will not structure the coastal fleet less than 11 metres.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1401	The Riksrevision report is a tough verdict on the fisheries policy that has been conducted from 2004 to 2018, but we know very well, as we are in this Chamber, that the criticism also applies to the two years that have not been in the Riksrevision area. It's stretching into our time. It's a hell of a sentence. If one were to throw dice and give some factors to it, it would be a cube to implement the fisheries policy on the basis of the statements made by Stortinget. Some people talk about profitability. The fishing industry has lost. The coastal communities have lost. Youth has lost. The fact that the stakeholders who are still at the fleet stage have started this development, we know, but that is not what the law says should be the starting point for the fisheries policy. It will build on socio-economic considerations, not allow any few to focus on this. It is the many people who should be the starting point of the fisheries policy. Has the Minister for Fisheries, those who are behind today's policy – the right side, the Progress Party, the Government Party – at all, considered how things are going with the fishing communities that have now lost, which the Riksrevision believes are very serious to have lost, contrary to the principle that has been the leader of the Stortinget? Take, for example: Step out of the municipality. In 2008, they had part of cod fishing at 1.5 pst. Today, ten years later, it's completely down to 0.5 pst. – an enormous decline in the part of the fish. Skervøy municipality had a little over 2 pst. part of cod fishing. Now they're at 0.5 pst. Here Island in Northern Ireland is one of the municipalities that have lost all fishing facilities and industries. I've been through and I've been looking at how people who live there, people who come from and live in fisheries-dependent communities. What we see is that unemployment is much higher than in other parts of the country. There are far more young people who are untrained, there's much lower life expectancy, and it's a tiring deportation and fumigation. The evolution of all these indicators is negative. That's the consequence. We know very well how it has gone with the people who have started this. It's just to look at Capital's list of who's richest in this country. That's how we see how it's been with them. But how things go with ordinary people in the fisheries-dependent communities hasn't really mattered about this government. I am looking forward to further debate. The mission we give to the government is that they should come back with a case and get the fisheries policy back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1414	Let me start by saying that I agree with the criticism of the Riksrevision and the thorough reviews that have been of it, both by the case rapporteur and other representatives, in the debate so far. I could imagine focusing on what is in the report that we now have good, sustainable populations. We're not going back very many years in time until that was not the case in Norway, and we see many places around the world there, for example. cod stocks are completely gone. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing was – and may be still to some extent – a major challenge for the fisheries sector that we have only been able to address through extensive, systematic work internationally. I will raise Helga Pedersen, send a rose to Tana's rapporteur for the job she has done with good professionals in the department to get this in place. Because it has been an incredibly comprehensive effort, with meetings with colleagues and with other authorities around the world, which resulted in the final adoption of an international agreement on port State control by the World Food Organisation (FAO), so that we can verify that the rules that have been developed are actually followed up, so that we can end up with a few countries illegally caught fish. In addition, there are controls on discards, etc. So there has been systematic work over the years, which I believe actually means that Helga Pedersen and her good cooperation partners in the Ministry of Fisheries deserve the designation of national strategists, because it is the very prerequisite for us to have distribution issues and management issues about the fisheries policy in Norway to discuss that we have stock development in place, that we can harvest. Finally, I would like to mention another point, and that is that there is a draft constitution, that is draft constitution No. 9, which gives the next major opportunity to do something that will be important for fisheries management in Norway. It is a constitutional proposal that we establish that the marine free-lived resources belong to the community. The reason why this is so important is a Supreme Court judgment from 23 October 2013. It correctly fixed the ability of the state to manage the quotas, and not to be eternal, but it was only with one vote's sovereignty in the Supreme Court. It is therefore important that the next enlargement be given the Constitutional Principle that fisheries resources cannot be owned by anyone forever, that they cannot be privatised but that they should be the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1425	It is important and right that the Riksrevision examines such a central area in terms of our management of wild resources. I record that maybe some of the representatives choose to talk about things to come, but this report is about things that have been, and I want to focus on it. Several of the items proposed by the Riksrevision are also addressed in the allowance message. The National Audit Office provides a good description of developments in the fishing fleet. At the same time, it is not as clear to see the causal link directly between what is described and the policy. I believe that one of the most important things here is the need to investigate the impact, as several have mentioned. At the same time – to say the least – I doubt that key actors would change their policy, regardless of the impact assessment. It's not the Riksrevision's role to write counterfactual history or if-scenarios, but it's important that we have an eye for the whole and what would have happened if we hadn't implemented the efficiency of the fleet that has happened in the period. Today we know the fishing fleet as profitable. However, this was not the case for large parts of the fleet in 2008, at the beginning of the period under investigation by the Riksrevision. That year fisheries were on average a deficit enterprise, i.e. earnings before tax, according to the Directorate of Fisheries's profitability survey. And for the chess group, the 15-21 meter group and the large group of coasts, it's not until 2015, that's the year after this Riksrevision report ends, that we get a stable period with no average deficit, profit before tax. And in that period, from 2015 until today, there has also not been a significant change in the structure of the fleets. According to the profitability study for the 11 to 15-meter group, it is not until 2015 — again: the following year — that the average pre-tax result is stable above DKK 100000 per vessel. This is a lot of numbers. Why is that important? This indicates to me that there has been a need for productivity growth in the fleet, and that this has been achieved through the policies of changing governments during the period. But things would have happened even if this policy were not there. If we were to be counter-factual and assume that we had not had structural changes, the average gross turnover and catches per vessel in the coastal group would have dropped by about a quarter. The margin of profit before tax is 14 pst. Once again, these are many numbers, but that means there's a great probability that there's someone who would have had low results or deficit results in that period, for the fleet as a whole. It would have serious consequences, and the normal thing in such a situation is that people step out of industry, either voluntarily or through bankruptcy. There's one exception to this, and that's the ringnot group. It has had stable, good profitability throughout this period. It is also this group that has not structured significantly during the period, precisely because they have not needed it. In other words, profitability is important for maintaining the fleet structure. Regardless of the political choices made, it is reasonable to assume that during the period we would see a dehulling of the number of ships in the industry throughout the coastal fleet. On pelagic beams, I am very afraid that the lack of structuring would probably have ended the group. This underlines the importance of following the recommendations of the National Audit Office. I consider them to be a recommendation to become even more knowledge-oriented in the formulation of the fisheries policy, and I welcome that. The main factor in ensuring activity is that we have a profitable and diversified fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1442	The Council’s audit report on the quota system is a thorough review of the fisheries policy carried out during the period 2004–2018. During this 15-year period, the Stoltenberg II Government has the longest managed fisheries policy over a period of eight years, from 2005 to 2013. During that period, some of the major changes to the allowance system were also implemented. When a reads the majority comments in the committee position, it may immediately appear that the criticism is directed at the current Solberg government. I allow myself to quote one of the majority remarks to illustrate it: ‘The majority consider it highly critical that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has not sufficiently identified the consequences prior to amendments and has not assessed to a greater extent how the changes in the quota system have affected coastal communities’ fishing activity after their implementation.’ There may be reason to recapitulate some of the major changes to the allowance system implemented by the Stoltenberg II Government during its term of government: introduction of structural quotas with a time limit for both the sea and coastal fleet in 2007 Size limit changed from 28 metres to 300 m 3 cargo spaces in the coastal fleet in 2008, extended to 500 m 3 in 2010 double loading capacity for ring nets and pelagic trawls from 2000 m 3 to 4000 m 3 in 2010 introduction of the co-fishing scheme in the coastal group below 11 metres in 2010, extended to co-fishing with itself in 2011 increased quota cap for conventional sea fishing fleet in 2012 and for coastal fleet in 2013 All these measures have undoubtedly contributed strongly to the owner’s concentration to which the red-green batches are now strongly critical. The fact that these batches themselves took a very easy look at the impact before such extensive changes were made, they pass by silently. However, the Riksrevision does not. In the context of the processing of the quota notification, the current government has obtained a majority in the Storting so that co-fishing with itself is a system to cease after a transitional period. The government has also taken action to halt the drift of the quota base against increasing seagoing vessels by deflecting the length of the base and introducing actual length as the only criterion for long-range belonging. The Riksrevision believes that it is highly critical that at an early stage, the current government has not set its feet on these regimes, which were key elements of the fisheries policy of the Red-Green Stoltenberg Government. We'll take note of that. At the same time, there is reason to stress that the current government has continued much of the fisheries policy that we inherited from the Stoltenberg government. When the Riksrevision now points out that this policy has over time led to many unintended and unfortunate consequences, it is therefore important that we do not go into the trench, but work for broad comparisons in the time to come. Together, we are responsible for ensuring good framework conditions for the fishing and fishing industry in the coming years. The government's parties invited it in connection with the quota notification, and we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1490	The representative from SV repeated that everyone has lost, and referred to several things. Among other things, he mentioned: that the island of Her Island has very high unemployment rates. I just want to say that, as far as I know, herein has very low unemployment, and fishing jobs are replaced by aquaculture. In the case of Vardø, which was also mentioned by SV, they have an increased country’s volume today than a few years ago. The challenge is to transform the increased landing into several workplaces. Then you need – and then Vardø and other places – people who want to invest, who have the will and the ability to bet. As I know, there are things going on there that are very promising. Of course, we must, and of course, take seriously the criticisms of the National Audit Office and take the challenges of the fisheries policy and of certain coastal communities, but we also need less cutbacks in the fishing industry and more forwarding of the fishing industry, and we need more investment. In the case of young people, I record that for the first time in history, there is a queue to get into the fishing and fishing lines around high school. That's a good sign. Youth wants to get into the industry, they see that it's going well, and that you can make good money. The question from the representative Myrseth really relates to a different matter than the one we are discussing today, and is far from what is today's topic. What is currently being consulted is actually the consequence of the quota notification contributing to greater coastal access to resources than in the past. Then we come back to that matter after the hearing has ended. I just want to say that I very much agree with the representative, Reiten, who says that we need broad settlements. Things about jobs and value creation are too important. At least we're not going to run too much on with light rhetoric around it. Workplaces and value creation are one of the most important steps we can take to make people want to live longer in North Norway. We can't decide where people are going to live. Youth is moving. But we can provide more jobs that make people want to stay in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1503	The National Audit Office has produced a shattering report on the quota system in coastal and marine fisheries. What's the crushing report about? Indeed, it states that the policy pursued is not in line with what the Stortinget has stated in writing, namely to take socio-economic considerations into account, and to ensure the proper development of society in all coastal communities along the coast. The main findings of the report are that established fisheries policy principles have been challenged. The ownership of quota vessels is concentrated on fewer hands. Vessels are less owned by registered fishermen. Increased quota prices have made it difficult to recruit fishermen. And the last, as the Council of State should notice very clearly: several of the changes in the quota system are not sufficiently consistent by the ministry. What was special when I overheard the hearing about this was the Fishlayer's statement in particular. The fishing team fully agreed with the crushing report, which implies that the policy adopted by the Storting is not being followed up. And then there was something special and important, namely that the Fiskarlag said, "We have agreed to that course." The fishing team must stop double-communing. You have to make it clear what you want. One cannot both criticise what has happened by supporting the national audit report and then say that one agrees with the measures that the Riksrevision actually criticises. Has the Ministry and the Directorate for Fisheries assessed measures based on existing legislation, where is the social economy of the communities concerned central? No, that's the criticism. It almost didn't happen. Of course, there must be profitability at all stages of fishing, from fishing to fish processing to sales. This is the capitalist principle on which the Center Party is based. However, policy needs to be organised in such a way that, together with the business economy, we ensure the social economy of the communities concerned – whether it be in Hasvik, in Måsøy or in Loppa. We cannot sit and watch these societies become as weakened as a real consequence of the fisheries policy. It is no good for the Council of State to say that this is the general development of society in the matter, when the Riksrevision has pointed out that it is the means by which the Council of State implements the fisheries policy, which reinforces market forces, reinforces centralisation and reinforces the weakening of these societies. That is the essence of the criticism of the Riksrevision. That's the problem we're now facing and have to correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1514	The reason I took the word was because it was focused on the fact that there was no mention of a crime. No, I guess it's not that weird when you're talking about a law of attorney. It must be the whole intention, the principle of law, to observe whether to handle such a law. So there's going to be a discussion that this has happened before. We've had a government that has been sitting for over seven years, so when it's about the time it's been put in place, and who has done it, I'm not going to free any previous government, I think it's completely wrong. But the point is that when the rules have been changed, one should just look at the consequences and make an impact statement – it’s missing. One must at least verify that one is doing so before proceeding with new changes. One is required to sue for one to know what one wants. When I talk about processing, and especially smaller processing businesses out in coastal communities, it's just this about getting the right fish, the right type of fish, the right quality fish and getting access to that fish over the largest possible part of the year that's the big challenge. Few of them are talking about market access as the challenge. The challenge is to get security for quality, to get security for even delivery, so that they can keep up a regular delivery to their customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1523	Takes a fish from fisheries-dependent communities, takes its existence from them. One takes the foundation of culture and history, one takes the foundation of a coastal culture that I would say is the backbone of Norwegian culture. That is what this is all about. Here, Stortinget has given clear leadership to the government and administration that fish should contribute to coastal culture and the common economy – there is no shortage of them. Then I thought it was special to be indebted not to talk about the industry. That's pronunciation. I am talking on behalf of all the fishing communities that are dependent on fishing, that have now lost the fish and that have now become effectively isolated from fishing. It's the passing of them – all the people who are now losing on government policy. I don't talk to the few people who tend to do this, and they're getting fewer and fewer. I don't. But I am forwarding the fishing industry and all the communities that depend on it, where the power of coastal culture lies. What has been the starting point for the whole offshore industry, because we have the competence to be at sea, what has been the starting point for shipping, which has spread all over the world, the competence of the coastal population, because they have spent thousands of years using the sea – that crowd and that people I am speaking about. So don't come to me and say that I don't talk about the fishing industry – I'm supposed to ask myself that – but I don't talk about the government's fisheries policy. That's two completely different things. There are several things you could have taken up in a discussion like this, but what is very striking about the government's policy is that they never cared about the money and price race that has happened in the fishing – never! They won't even create a list or list of them. They will not give an overview of the increase that it has been when buying into the closed fish, which has been galloping. Over the last eight years, there has been an increase in the price of nearly 1 000 pst. That's what's been effectively shutting young people out, because they can't pay in when you have to buy a 3 to 4 million allowance. NOK before one has bought a boat. Who in all the world can afford it? One has rigged a system that is not at the head of the coastal population or youth, but is at the head of those who are on a lot of capital and have access to capital. This report from the Riksrevision is a hard hit with such a culture. It is contrary to what the Storting has decided, and this the government must come back and clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1534	It is interesting to note that we are dealing with a matter which is about the crushing criticism of the National Audit Office, which shows that important principles of fisheries policy have been challenged – it has weakened coastal communities, and this has led to a large concentration of ownership – while when you hear the debate and the people of the government parties in the pulpit, you should not think that this was particularly serious or critical. You paint a rose-red image of yourself and you're more concerned about absolving your period than you are about taking over the criticism and talking about what you're actually going to do with it. Here, there might be some disagreements, because what the Labour Party points out as problematic, it's not sure that the Right opinion is problematic. But then you should say it instead, in that case it's an honest thing. It is obviously a very self-satisfied government that is now involved in handling this matter. But it's not very charming to run with a kind of 'blame game' instead of telling you what to do. The Labour Party has been governing the fisheries policy in this country for many years. I'm proud of a lot of what we've got. One of the important things has been to make sure that the fishermen don't get to stand with their hats in their hands. Wages and salaries are of course important; it is essential to be able to live on this profession, but the question now is, Who is it profitable for? Is it just going to be profitable for a few big ones, or are we going to provide profitability along the whole coast and bring with us the small ones, the medium-sized ones and the big ones? It's important for the Workers' Party. In contrast to the government, we say from the Workers' Party that if we have been involved in doing things that make development go in the wrong direction, yes, then we'll have to make sure to change it. Then we'll make sure to reverse the trend, because we know where we want to go. There's something quite different than what today's government says. So I have to say, this is very tame. Every time you get criticism, the answer is, you talk down a whole diet. It's with respect to report not true. You criticise the policy, you criticise the direction, but you don't criticise the industry at all, which we all value very highly. We all have a strong commitment to this amazing industry, but we'll go different ways. I just have to say to the treatment of the quota notification: the representative Reten was in it and talked about broad settlements, about impact assessment and that now we have to go together. Yes, that should start with it, and not carry out a leather process of negotiating and consensus when dealing with the important notification of allowances in April to May.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1552	I really didn't mean to say any last words, and maybe I shouldn't say what I'm saying now, but in terms of what should have been essentially now, and which is essentially, I want to make some descriptions from my visits in many places. I know that the state council that sits in the hall has also been visiting, and another state council has also been, among other things. in my municipality. Berlevåg is a place that has been totally dependent on fisheries for a long time. Not long ago, I had a meeting with a lot of people in Berlevåg. A lady who has worked in the industry there for probably 40 years, I think, says to me: Why is it that the fish goes by and to Tromsø for delivery? Why doesn't it come into Berlevåg, so that we get production jobs here in Berlevåg? What we also see in Hasvik, which is a very large municipality as a fishing municipality – not a fishing capital, but we were almost at the top not long ago – is that we also do not have full-year fishing industry jobs, and it is frightening to think about it. Then we're almost the best that's made of fish fields all over Europe. That's crazy, what's happening now. We have to turn this around. We need to get more industrial jobs. We have to make it easier for young people to get to, get quota or get access to fishing. There are systems that make you an open group, you might get 10 tons on an 11 meter boat, 10 to 11 tons, I don't know what's new now. But then, in addition to that, Finnmark has a Sami quota of approx. 7 tons, and then you have 17 tons. Let's say you have 20 tons, you have about 20 tons. NOK 600000 in income on cod. It's too little to live by when it comes to defending quite large demands on how to certify the boat, and it's demanding all the roads that make it almost impossible for the young to get to. One should have rich people around him or people with capital to be able to handle it. So to this, to speak. Yes, I speak to Hasvik and Finnmark and North Norway almost every day. Everyone has to do that, and then we have to look at the whole thing of this. We can't just stop someone making money. There are people who make money well, so is it in my municipality. There are people who make money well, but they're also afraid of what's coming: what's going to happen when the structuring comes in too fully?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1561	I would like to thank you for a good debate, but I would also like to make some summaries. I sometimes wonder, in the light of the statements we have heard here, whether those in the nutrition committee have really read the position of the control and the constitution committee. There is an overall committee which agrees with the issues raised here by the Riksrevision and which also asks the Council of State to come back to the Storting on how this should be followed up. So I want to read a little bit for the representatives here, because it's said that it's a crushing criticism. I have not found a single place in the report of the Riksrevision that it says 'criticism'. It is said to be «highly critical» and «critical». The report also explains this: «Strengthened criticism indicates matters which have less serious consequences but relate to matters of principle or importance.» And on the other hand, ‘Critically used to characterise a lack of management where the consequences are not necessarily serious.’ – etc. But this is an important report that says a lot about an important industry. It is not possible to undermine the fact that this is a report covering the period 2004 to 2018, so no one is flawless in this room as to how one has managed this and introduced this legislation. Nevertheless, until 2000 the profitability of this fleet was low. Today we are to be pleased that there is an increase in profitability and that the industry is sustainable. We should also be glad that there really are people who dare to invest and bet. So there's been a lot of talk about that we've seen a decline in some coastal communities. The representative of Fylkesnes has the impression that this industry does not exist from the Russian border and down to Bergen. But I want to say that this report also shows very clearly that there are many coastal communities that have actually increased growth in this industry. And there's a lot of stuff going on to get people to live in these coastal communities, it's not just that the fish get caught in that community. It could be infrastructure, and it could also be, as KS had in mind, how the municipalities themselves seem attractive to people living in those municipalities. So I'm glad we got this report. I look forward to the State Council coming back to Stortinget and informing – not just informing, but telling how this should be followed up. And then I'd say it's a great nutrition, and we're going to be happy that there's profitability in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1584	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1589	It's a rather crushing judgment the Riksaudition comes with. It's completely open. I have a seat on the control committee and have read many national audit reports, and this is absolutely a strong reading. In other words, when one has had a management and government at different times that has not followed up the superior principles of fisheries legislation, and it is documented in areas by region, and where the effects and consequences of this are very negative, it even says 'negative consequences for coastal communities', then it is very serious – even when one sees this in the light of how these municipalities and the fisheries-dependent coastal communities are doing, how it goes with the people there, and what happens to them when the fish are taken from them. One of the main conclusions here is that it doesn't have our socio-economic profitability. AS Norway, to use such a worn-out manipulation, has not switched on. There are single actors, and fewer and fewer single actors, who have started this. Then I expect that the Storting, when one has merged on all of these comments, is behind those conclusions and gives the government the opportunity to change course.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1596	There is an overall committee which agrees with the Riksrevision and asks the Council of State to come back to the follow-up to the report. I want to commend the Committee on its ability to gather on that conclusion. It's very rare, when a reader reads how strongly the criticism is. The national audit language is formed, and strong criticism is what we call a crushing report out there. It's also true that what's going on here is a long way back in time, and there's more governments. It is important that we all take into account that the report points out something that has happened over several governments. There are several governments that are responsible – in each way – for the situation we have come into. There is a lot of talk about North Norway, about politics and north-eastern politics. I well remember under the red-green government that fisheries policy in the sense of fishing peoples and communities along the coast's approach to fish was quite absent then. That's why a living there, that's what's basic. And if there's no basis, it's confusing. What is then very important is that now the market forces have had the right to pre-driving to determine the access to who is going to fish. That's not the law. The law says that one should take broader consideration. One shall, as a matter of fact, make full use of the coast; seafaringly, it shall ensure that all the coastal fishing-dependent coastal communities which are along the coast are safe. So that's not going to happen. Then we are in a situation of fish processing, that there is far too little focus on quality and on fresh fish and too little focus on orderly wage and labour conditions in the fisheries industry. What has emerged is, based on my experience, just the top of the iceberg in some companies. It's also serious businesses that run well, but it's too many that don't run well. When it comes to controlling the fishing, controlling the landings and controlling the quotas, the Directorate of Fisheries becomes quite a bit of a fuss when we meet them and ask what they've really contributed to: a situation where it looks like that, and then reality is a quite different and much more problematic. The council has a big task when he's going to come back to Stortinget and tell me where the cabinet should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1613	I only take the word to say that I think it is a grievance when the case-speaker from the pulpit suggests that those of the business committee's members who have participated in the debate cannot have read the report. I am absolutely sure that you have read the report, that you have read the configuration. Many have followed the call, it has been a great commitment. I believe that this criticism is addressed to the opposition's members of the Trade Committee, but one can be sure that we have followed this report with great interest. It is such that we have not read this report and this setting in a vacuum. We have also looked at this work against the ongoing debate on fisheries policy. We have read this in the light of the debates we had about the quota message. We also interpret this from the Council of State's reaction to the report and find it there. We read this in the light of the issues that the Council of State is sending out on the agenda of the Council of State for fisheries policy. We do not see that the Council of State has a direction in which he says no, now we must turn the course so that we can achieve the objectives set by the Stortinget for the fisheries policy. One sees that one does more of the policies that have led us away from the goals we've seen, and that's the background. I know it's a simple trick – and I've probably done it myself – to suggest that political opponents don't have to read the documents. But one can be absolutely sure that the criticism that has emerged today is genuine, and he is built on a commitment to the fisheries policy and not least to have a fisheries policy that builds up below the coast, not depleting the coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1622	I can't leave it undisputed. Let me assure the representative Pollestad and the rest of the assembly that I am sure that Pollestad has read the Riksrevision report. What I tried to come up with is that in today's debate – with so much criticism that the government parties and the Progress Party have not taken this report seriously – it has heard as if representatives of the Trade Committee have not read the position of the Control Committee. The common comment that does not reflect the posts held in this room from the opposition. I'm sure that the representative Pollestad has read the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1629	I was challenged by the representative Pollestad about what was my fisheries policy agenda. My agenda is increased value creation, more jobs and more activity along the coast. It's my agenda every day. It is also the government's agenda, and it is about like that in the government platform. The representative Pollestad was also concerned about concerns in the fishing industry. If there's one thing I've learned after a few months in the Ministry of Fisheries, it's that anxiety is quite normal in the fishing industry. It's been like this for decades. For it is both about a struggle for resources and about how resources are to be allocated. Then the government's policy is that we essentially want to continue the allocation of resources that has been between ship groups. We want to build on a good basis, as we have today, where we have managed to achieve profitability in the industry and achieve sustainable management of fish stocks. We believe that it is a good foundation to build on – step by step to improve and develop. So it's interesting to think that when we talk about e.g. access to raw materials to the rural industry or access to fish for people along the coast is a question of sustainable management. Not so many years ago, the cod was gone for 10-12 years. Then it was the Black Sea, if I don't remember correctly. Sustainable governance is also about that. When we hear extensive rumors about cheating and illegal fish trafficking, it's also about access to raw material for the fish industry because they don't have the opportunity to buy or compete to buy that fish. That is why the government wants us to assess, at least, that we want, for example. shall have an obligation to auction on the whitefish side. I also think that the opposition should, in part, take up a little of what the rapporteur says about how to use words and rhetoric deliberately. I think the opposition is well aware of the use of quite strong words – harsh, crushing criticism, ‘blame game’ and other expressions. I think it's an active political rhetoric at a time that goes against election fighting. I think that we need to take a little more responsibility and perhaps try to actively seek broader reconciliation and greater consensus within the fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1640	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1645	The words of the last speaker and the Minister for Fisheries are quite perceptive at the end of a debate. When most people do not have speaking time again, they say that the opposition has to think about both how to speak about this criticism, that we have to be careful with words, and that the opposition has to take responsibility and ensure reconciliation, etc. Maybe you should think about that earlier. You sit, for example. by a majority. When you worked with the allowance message, it was the position that created root, not least on the rise side. It must have been quite frustrating for the newly-appointed Minister for Fisheries. This is quite special, nor does the case rapporteur take on board: When the opposition has repeatedly asked for an overview of how the government should handle the criticism, and what is considered critical, there is no answer. Now the Control Committee says that the Council of State must come back again. That's pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1653	The representative Steinar Reiten has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1658	I want to use this note to present the red-green government parties. Many of the grips they took during their reign were good for Norwegian fisheries. But they also had consequences that we now have to find a solution to. In particular, there is a setback in structural quotas. When I hear the Minister for Fisheries, I don't hear a man who wants to provoke. He wants to invite to broad settlements, so that the Storting can solve the crowd in a good way. When the red-greens introduced that system in 2007, it could seem like it was very long until 2027. But this is a problem that has to find its solution quickly; we'll be there soon. I hope at least that we can put away the rhetoric of war when we're going to find a solution to these problems, and follow the Council of State's call to arrive at broad settlements for the benefit of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1684	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1691	Digitalisation shall provide both residents and businesses with a simpler everyday life and contribute to more efficient resource use and productivity gains. Technology development requires knowledge and trust when we're moving quickly into the unknown. The digital everyday life is no longer new, but new problem settings are constantly emerging. This message discusses the 2019 Annual Reports of the Data Protection Supervisor and the 2019 Annual Reports of the Data Protection Officer. New personal data law entered into force in 2018, and the report shows that 2019 was a development with increased awareness among those who handle personal data, which has also led to major changes in the tasks, working methods and organisation of the Data Protection Authority. Data protection has a good way of adapting to new legislation and new challenges. During the reporting year, the Data Protection Authority has chosen to give priority to the work on data protection issues in the areas of children, young people and education, health and well-being and international data protection cooperation. In their work they have chosen to look at communication and guidance and the arrangements for privacy. Most of the cases dealt with by the Data Protection Authority, which have been filed with the Data Protection Officer, have been dealt with under the new Data Protection Act. In view of this, it is pointed out in the Privacy Department's Annual Report that the following has had to stick to new and partially uncultivated land. The period of proceedings has elapsed, and it is also stressed in the report that the quality of the proceedings has become important. This seemed to be a proper priority, especially given that this mention of its decisions is also important for the national interpretation and understanding of the Data Protection Regulation. The annual report provides a very good picture of both trends and developments in the field of privacy. There is a joint committee that is behind the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1704	Let me start by saying thank you to the rapporteur for a good job and tidy remarks. It is also shown because there is largely an overall committee behind this. There are no major political contradictions in this matter. The rapporteur has presented some of the challenges we want to face in a good way, but I want to spend some time talking on a special challenge, and it is related to privacy. New technology gives us great opportunities, and my perception is that technology can basically provide a better everyday life for people. Of course, it's about how we use it, because you can also use technology in such a way that it's a threat. But I'm basic technology-optimistic. What distinguishes today's technology from previous technology may be the ability to collect huge amounts of data. I had the pleasure of visiting the Nordic Hospital in Bodø in the spring and was equipped with a new sensor that can continuously measure my blood sugar. It's a fantastic technology, it gives me a lot of opportunities, but I have to admit that the idea that someone else is going to drive and read my blood sugar continuously -- well, it might not be an acute threat -- has been unpleasant. That is why we have a special responsibility to think through how we are going to bring this about – that is also mentioned in the comments – how we are going to govern and control and ensure that people are protected. Before that it was the state, the public, that collected information, and had to take care of it. They still do, but it has also become a very important market – for the last ten years, there has been information that has driven the growth of the world economy. We have to get that right, so that we can protect people from abuse. The rapporteur was concerned about how difficult it is – and this is also mentioned in the position – for people to deal with this. We have to contribute to both getting it through a law, and we have to contribute to empowering people, because at the end of the day, I think here too, in the same way as in many areas, the consumer power – what you demand, and who you buy from, in relation to how they act – will be an important contribution to solving it. There's an important difference, because even though it's the way that when Google asks us about information, we give it in principle on a voluntary basis. Given that there is an informed consent, the law allows the public to require information. Then it is also up to public Norway, whether it be municipalities, counties or states, to manage it safely. If we get a lot of mistakes, if we get a lot of scandals like that in Health South-East, where there's doubt about whether data has gone wrong, it'll weaken confidence, weaken efficiency, but most of all it'll be a violation of the privacy of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1719	A significant part of the lives of the Nordics is digitally lived, and a large amount of personal data flows to both the public and other actors. The message refers to the fact that the few are aware of which electronic tracks are generated when using digital services. Proper processing of personal data requires good attention and understanding of both privacy and information security and requires not least increased awareness of personal digital activity and privacy. Here we probably have a way to go, both from the public side and from all of us as consumers. There have been several cases of serious breaches of the data protection legislation in the school and health services in recent years. The centre party is concerned that students, patients and all other residents in Norway should be confident that their personal data will be kept and will not be compromised. It is the responsibility of the public to ensure the protection of privacy and to process that information with great care. This applies to information available in both digital and non-digital systems. The Central Party believes that the work on data protection needs to focus in particular on all digitisation in the public sector. It is important both in the use of existing computer systems and in the development and introduction of new systems as the public sector becomes more and more digitised. I would like to stress that the government is responsible for the protection of privacy, and it is assumed that it is working on resolving personal data issues on the way from school and health institutions and ensuring that similar events do not repeat themselves. Ensuring the privacy of children and young people within and outside school is essential. Responsibility cannot be left solely to the individual, but must also be exercised through State legislation, through training and not least through risk mitigation measures. It is also crucial for children to have knowledge of the digital world in school and to develop critical senses in children and young people from an early age. To a large extent, they control the tools, but are not necessarily as observant of privacy. We are all vulnerable both to accessing information that can be misused and to being cheated, and not least to being misinformed. Lack of digital understanding makes you particularly vulnerable. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that it is positive that the Data Protection Authority is committed to contributing to increased knowledge and interest in privacy. I hope that the Data Protection Authority will continue with the important work they are doing, and that we can look forward to good judgement and not least debates on the issues that the right to privacy will challenge in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1734	Thank you to the President-in-Office. I also fully agree with the submissions that have been kept both from the Workers' Party and from the Centre Party. I am very pleased with the job done by the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer. I have great confidence in that, but I think we have great challenges ahead of us in securing the personal data, so that they don't get on the wrong side, as the representative Nordlund was in on, and the examples that we've seen before, but also when it opens, and not only opens, but that there will be more and more commercialization of the data being collected. I think that's a challenge that I don't quite see the solution to. I want to challenge the government to say a little bit about how they think this should be done in the future, because there is enough reality, as some of the previous speakers also said, that getting responsibility for their own privacy online is quite difficult. Most of us are not competent to do that, sail if we consider ourselves to be quite uphill. Some people have much less digital skills and are far more vulnerable than others to being mistreated, cheated and cheated, but also to be able to assess how to use and regulate information that is left behind by shipping, so as not to compromise privacy, or to develop a development that is difficult to look at in advance, but that can be very unfortunate. I want to repeat this, and perhaps with particular attention to the generation that is of age with me and upwards, who will, I believe, need more assistance and training opportunities in order to meet their own privacy and data security needs. The Data Protection Authority also states that this legislation is quite new and, in addition, complicated and challenging to follow in practice. It's probably not only for the supervisory authorities, but also for everyone else who's going to use it, including all private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1743	Today, Stortinget deals with an important communication, namely the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the National Data Protection Agency for 2019. The use of data, digitisation, how we deliver our personal data – together, all of this makes these communications from the Data Protection Agency more important and important, because we are living our lives more and more digitally. I want to state immediately that 2019 was a year with several breaches of information security in the school and health sectors. Of course, this is not acceptable. It is not acceptable because these are events that could have very serious consequences for both the safety of children and the protection of privacy and the safety of patients. A contributing cause of the events is a lack of attention and understanding of privacy. I believe that transparency about the errors we are now going to use as a basis for learning and improvement. The privacy of children, both at school and elsewhere in society, is important. I am glad that we have put in place a data protection commission that, among other things, shall identify how the use of social media affects children and the privacy of young people. Earlier this year, we discussed privacy challenges in this room in the light of the huge collection, analysis and trade of personal data that occurs when we use apps and other digital services. It's almost impossible for us to understand how information about us is used, and who uses it. These challenges are not something we in Norway can deal with on our own. Our data is part of a global trade in personal data. We therefore need to work with our partners, in particular through EEA cooperation, to ensure the privacy of Norwegian citizens. I am pleased that the Data Protection Authority is an active contributor to European data protection cooperation, and I am pleased that Norway has such strong and clear data supervision. Digitalisation of services, both in the public and private sectors, is important and necessary. Good data protection should help citizens to have confidence in the services provided. In the field of digitalisation, we need a competent data oversight that can be a relevant discussion partner for technology and service development. That is why I am pleased that we have put in place a regulatory sandbox for privacy and artificial intelligence, so that we can benefit from the experience of using data.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1763	I fully agree with the Council of State that data is becoming more important and important. It is virtually impossible today to live a normal life without resetting significantly with digital tracks or being required a wide range of information, including from the public, digital. The annual report shows that there are more cases than before of serious infringements of the applicable legislation. The council itself was inside it in her post, and she chose to be very clear in her view of it: it is not acceptable. I share that view. The question is: what changes has the government now made in the light of the information provided in the report we are considering?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1772	I would like to thank the representative for putting the issue on the agenda in Stortinget. This has no quick fix solution. We must work widely – and not least, as several of the speakers have been involved in what we ourselves, as citizens, can contribute to our own security. But first of all, this is about what I was in my post, too, that here we have to work internationally. Global platform companies offer services seemingly free of charge, but users pay with personal data. The introduction of legislation to ensure Norwegian citizens to a greater extent cannot be done by Norway alone. It is the OECD that is at the forefront of this. At the same time, the EU has launched a process to develop new legislation. On the part of the government, we have sent an address to the EU, in which we have made representations to the EU's proposal for a new regulation of digital platforms. We've also been clear that we want to be at our disposal to contribute to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1779	It is commendable that the Council of State has an international commitment to a global challenge – I think that is important. But my question was not about the global challenges. My question is about – and thank you for putting the issue on the agenda, it is not I that have done, it is the Data Protection Agency that has done – matters where there is a serious breach of today's legislation. This applies to municipalities, but it also applies to the state, which is the responsibility of the government. In the light of the breaches made by the underlying government agencies, what changes has the government made to avoid repeating the unacceptable situation, as characterised by the state council? What changes has the government made in the light of the breaches reported?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1785	When I commended the representative for putting it on the agenda, I meant in the debate on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority. But to the international companies, it's about international work. For the purposes of the annual notification also relating to patients and related to students, it is the Data Protection Supervisor that has made recommendations, to a large extent as the supervisory authority, on how to follow up and correct the mistakes made. Because here there are mistakes that are not going to happen, and the schools themselves are responsible for the system they have. What we're doing from the government's side is facilitating and supporting and assisting in how to avoid mistakes happening again. At school, we have now developed a digital strategy, so that we can get a boost and get away from the vulnerability that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1792	It is good to have a digital strategy for schools, it is a municipal and county responsibility. But let me be quite specific, then: there have also been health violations, in the specialist health service. What changes has the government made, or does the Government consider that the government should make, as a result of the reported breaches of current legislation, which are not acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1797	I think the representative agrees, that the mistakes that have been made are corrected, and then it is the various departments that are responsible for ensuring systems that do not cause these errors to occur again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1802	What we need to know is what kind of systematic government has when they are informed that there are errors in handling such serious issues. It concerns privacy this time, it can apply to other things other times. Then, of course, it's about someone correcting that particular error, but the point here is what kind of systematic work is going on to go through, so that this kind of error does not happen again. That's what we're looking for right now, not just individualizing these problems. It may be that there are some individual errors that are made, but sometimes there are some weaknesses in the system, which the government has to take responsibility for making sure is not there. That's what the Stortinget wants to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1807	I'm going to answer again: it's the floors that follow that it's not going to happen again. It's also the Digitalisation Directorate, which we've put in place, that follows that the mistakes that are being made are to be learned from, and that ensures that you have systems that make those mistakes not happen again. An example is from the ID port, where actual errors occurred. There, the Directorate-General for Digitalisation put in a position to simply provide information to those affected, follow up on the removal of the errors and ensure that it will not happen again. You work in a very broad field, and that's what we have the Digitalisation Directorate for, which I think is doing a very good job. And we have the supervision that's involved and we're detecting those errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1812	The Council of State also mentioned in its article artificial intelligence and that it is now a digital sandbox, as it is called, to develop it. Here is my question: how does the state ensure that what is being developed is used for societal purposes, that the interests of different population groups are safeguarded and, for example, Not hurt, either? It is important that developments in this area now do not contribute to increasing differences or to, for example, There are only things that are useful and fun for men, but perhaps not as well for women, who are being developed. How is this work managed so that there are societal things that come out of it, and that it's not just commercially interesting things that come out of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1817	The regulatory sandbox opened by the Data Protection Authority on 1 December will also be a contribution to showing how artificial intelligence can help us to solve major challenges and how we use data. This also applies to personal data. Sandboxes shall be a place for experimenting with data, exploring regulatory action spaces in a safe environment and under skillful guidance. We want from the government to facilitate the innovation and development of privacy-friendly technological solutions, and then we believe that if there is no trust in the people in how personal data and data are used, then there will be no confidence that the public can use these data. So it's absolutely fundamental that we get results on how to use it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1824	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1831	Several have pointed to privacy and data collection as important and also challenging. There are a lot of data being processed, and there are also sensitive data. It requires good respect and understanding of privacy and information security. In its comments, the Committee emphasises this precisely by referring to the value of good cross-border cooperation. These reports indicate that international work is a priority of the Data Protection Authority. Why? Yes, because the majority of our national data protection legislation is EU legislation implemented in Norwegian law. It is therefore very important to have a close and good dialogue with data protection authorities in other European countries, both in order to follow the legislative intrusions there and not least because it allows us to influence interpretation and use of the legislation. Competence building and cooperation are important, as well as sanctions for breaches of the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act. It is important and should also be strict. The obligation to report non-conformities has become significantly larger. There is something that is pointed out in the reports. This obviously leads to an increase in the amount of the case, and an increase in the amount of the case in this area is good. That shows that we're on the right track. Prevention, guidance and dialogue are also an important task of the Data Protection Authority, as well as the very central role of the Digitalisation Directorate and the Data Protection Agency in our new personal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1842	It was not meant to prolong the debate, but I am sitting and listening, among other things. I'm reacting a little bit to the fact that there's a complete lack of attempts to answer the questions that are coming, and that on a theme that the Council of State itself from the Parliament's pulpit says is very, very important and is prioritised to keep track of. I'm gonna have to encourage the Council of States one more time. If she does not answer the question, she must say so. That's why I'm asking again from the Great Britain's pulpit: what has the government taken for granted, among other things. in the light of the errors revealed in Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1847	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1865	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1872	This includes proposals for three changes relating to the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the The proposition proposes to lower the requirement to merge two or more sections of owners from the seminar to two-thirds of the majority at the annual meeting. The purpose of this proposal is to make it easier for owners to merge into more useful operational units. The Proposition also includes proposals for some technical changes to the Housing Building Laws and the Building Support Act. These two changes are backed up by a joint committee. In the bill, the Ministry also proposes to introduce a new rule in the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on the law on The passengers will be entitled to set up an electric car charging point under certain conditions by the tenants of the Burektslag. The reason for this is both that one has seen an increase in conflict cases associated with the establishment of a charging point, and that during the proceedings of the Owners' Section Act in 2017, the Storting decided to grant section owners, with the agreement of the Board, the right to establish charging points for electric cars and ready-to-charge hybrids. The frame laws have not yet been applied to the charging of an electric car. The majority of the Committee believes that charging infrastructure is fundamental to achieving the goal of fossil-free all new cars by 2025. Charging an electric car home must be capable of being attainable either a cage in a single-bust or a cage in an apartment. The cost of charging infrastructure is therefore close to the need for universal administration. There is reason to stress that the Governing Board should have the power of decision, and shall then ensure an assessment of the merits of both compliance and refusal. A limit, an indicative limit, is set at NOK 50000 to ensure that unreasonably high costs cannot be imposed on the members of the Barrier Act. The Ministry here proposes to clarify the corresponding provisions of the Owners' Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1883	It's a goal to stop the sale of cars with fossil energy carriers in 2025. A prerequisite for this is a well-developed charging infrastructure across the country. The Workers' Party supports the changes in the law of housing law. We agree with the Ministry's assessment that if there is, or is planned within a reasonable period of time, an adequate offer to charge at a joint loading station in the joint or housing law, it is to be regarded as a factual reason to refuse to set up a private charging point for the individual. It may in some cases be very high costs for the individual to develop satisfactory charging solutions, upgrade the power supply, etc. Where the costs exceed half of the basic amount of the public interest for each shareholder or section, approximately DKK 50 000, there will be factual grounds for the board to refuse, but a concrete assessment must nevertheless be made where the costs are assessed against other relevant elements. There may therefore be factual grounds to refuse both when the costs of the individual are higher and when they are lower than half of the basic amount. The deployment of the mains power grid to handle an increasing number of electric cars is in the Community interest. We need to assess how network providers can contribute to finding cost-effective solutions and solutions that share costs fairly between subscribers. Furthermore, we would point out that some municipalities and county councils have support schemes for the establishment of electric car charging in joint farms and housing units. This is an important supplement in order to support the development. Finally, I would like to point out our strengthening of the Climate Change Scheme in our alternative budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1896	The party of progress is the motorist’s party – I think most people have got along with it – and we’re dedicated to facilitating both electric drivers and other car owners, so they can have their cars where they live. What's a little strange about this case is that here you add one up to a system where everyone is going to be involved and pay for infrastructure – both those who need it and those who don't need it. Even those who don't have a car, at the proposal of the majority, should be involved in paying a portion of the bill, in fact, up to $50,000, for something they don't need or have any use for. $50,000 is a lot, and it's unthinkable to put that cost on people who might not have a car. The point of progress is that we should make sure that one is allowed to have the infrastructure you need, but if one establishes it, those who benefit from it will pay for themselves. Therefore, we have a proposal that the Stortinget ask the government to submit proposals for changes to the two laws, ‘so that any additional costs related to the installation of charging points, maintenance or upgrade of the mains power supply shall be financed only by the housing units using charging points, so that this shall not be charged to the entire law of residence or the joint venture’. Our principle is very simple: if this is to be paid jointly by everyone, certainly all must be a few. There is no control decision or multiple decision making. That is what we are referring to in proposal No. 3 from us: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Barriers and the Law on Ownership so that the installation of loading points in common areas related to the law on housing or the law on housing shall only be charged to all housing units if agreed by all housing units.’ We thought our approach was more logical and fair. I'm afraid there may come a lot of problematic things in the wake of this. We know that very many electric car owners thought the charge would take too long. They want laptops. There's going to be a lot of initiative to upgrade the AC adapter. Who's gonna take that bill? There will be many conflicts in the different communities and the battlements in the future. Therefore, we thought that the majority here looks a little too easy to charge all the costs of infrastructure that would benefit anyone, and the limit of NOK 50000 is too high to charge a single building unit for something that they neither need nor want. Difor is very clear to us that the principle here is that everyone should pay, everyone should also be a few. Therefore, we recommend that one vote for the three proposals of the Progress Party be put forward, and I take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1915	Then the representative Helge André Njåstad addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1920	The proposal to provide owners with housing rights and rights to set up electric car charging points has produced many reactions, and most of the requests and counter-inventions are about infrastructure development costs. Where an individual’s individual right to require charging capacity where he resides is to be able to impose an increased cost on all owners in the form of investments in the extended power grid, possibly the establishment of joint charging facilities, many report a concern about the costs involved. The Government's proposal presents some guides for which reasons can limit the law, but the decision should, on the basis of the government's proposal, be based on the Governing Board's judgement. The proposal sets no maximum limit, which some previous speakers are trying to give the impression of, but only an indicative limit of NOK 50000. That means it could be more, and it could be smaller. The centre party wants to expand the charging capacity of an electric car and believes there is a real need to put in place more chargers both in relation to private homes and along the roads. We support extending the right to set up a charging point in its own place as long as it takes place within available capacity and for necessary safety reasons, and as long as the cost is borne by the owner himself. However, we are sceptical that the Board of Directors should be able to impose an increased cost on the individual housing unit in terms of increased public debt without overcoming this decision by the Annual Meeting of the Housing Act or the Joint Committee. The need to extend charging capacity is highly real, but at the same time speaks basic democratic principles in order for the annual meeting not to be able to review it. From that point of view, it would be very problematic if the right to decide on any investment is transferred from the annual meeting to the board, which is what the government proposes. The centre party considers that if the measure would impose increased costs on other owners, it must be up to the annual meeting to decide on investment projects for the right of residence or the joint venture. It is a democratic principle. We therefore do not support the bill that the decision should be moved from the annual meeting to the board. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that, in view of the possible minority who wish to establish such a charging infrastructure, it is important to ensure that both the board and the owner find solutions to ensure that residents in housing camps and joint houses are able to have electric cars. Solutions relating to common charging points in common parking spaces may in some cases be a solution both to the need for increased charging capacity and to lower investment costs than if the right is to apply to each parking space. There shall be more good reasons to oppose solutions that provide capacity for congestion, as long as investment costs are acceptable to the economy of the law of residence or the community. We must be able to do this in order to bring it together while at the same time respecting democratic principles and the individual's wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1935	If we're going to achieve the goal of phase out the fossil cars, we have to make sure that people have the opportunity to charge. We who live in the country and have our own house do not have this problem. In the city, on the other hand, many people have this problem. I have noticed with amazement that many people are discussing electric car use as a city phenomenon, while in fact it is much easier in small towns and in the countryside. We got this case when we dealt with the Ownership Act in 2017, as it was said. The funny thing that happened then was that in the Municipal Committee we got a majority in the Storting, while those who put on the Energy and Environment Committee did not get a majority in the case of housing laws. Then a representative proposal was made by Heikki Holmås, Audun Lysbakken and Abid Q. Raja, who was the initiative for the matter we have now received. I'm very happy that the law is coming. Of course, I have also received enquiries from people who believe that this can be very expensive. I would like to stress that the board has to assess it. With regard to the limit of the amount referred to, the government, as I see it, has not set an amount limit – it has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Especially where there are a few unit-holders, there's going to be a big point, because there can be large numbers. But it's important to make reasonable adjustments. It sounds like there may not be conflicts today; I can promise it is. Many people want to set up such an electric car charge today, but don't get it because it's not regulated. I also think there may be conflicts around these issues, and then it's important that there are clearer rules than it is now, and that of course you take reasonable consideration. But it is also a great responsibility for us, as a crowd, to ensure that there are central support schemes to implement this. In our budget, SV proposes 250 million. kr for this purpose, just to ensure many of the housing laws or communities that need this, but where it becomes expensive, and where you don't get it, maybe because you have someone to take into account, which you take into account. If you want to get this done, the state has to contribute to getting a law in place. I hope all the parties contribute to that, because it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1948	The Government aims to halve emissions from the transport sector by 2030. It is essential to achieve the sustainability objectives, it is essential to achieve the climate objectives, and it is essential that we become a low-carbon society by 2050. In order to achieve these objectives, more people have to choose a zero-emission vehicle. The ambition is that all new passenger cars and light vans will have zero emissions in 2025. Norwegian electric car policy is a success. Five years ago, under one in five cars sold in Norway was an electric car. By 2020, more than every other car is an electric car. Norway has the highest electricity car share in the world. The main reason for this success is government tax policy, which ensures that choosing zero-emission cars pays off. The availability of publicly available high-speed charging stations throughout the country is also important for people to choose to buy an electric car. Although conditions are good for us to achieve the goal of all new cars in 2025 being zero-emission cars, I believe it is the potential to make it even easier for people to choose a rechargeable car instead of a fossil-powered car. Today, a board or general meeting may refuse a unit-holder to set up a charging point in his parking space even when the unit-holders pay for themselves. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has received several enquiries from unit-holders who wish to obtain an electric car but who are not allowed to set up a charging point without any factual justification. The government considers this to be unfortunate, and therefore proposes to amend the law on housing law so that the individual resident, as a starting point, is given a right to charge where they live. I know that in some cases it may be expensive to facilitate charging points. In order to avoid the most unreasonable cases, we have proposed that the Board of Directors should be able to say no to the charging point after a concrete assessment, where costs can be a central moment. Laws of residence are different, and it is therefore important that the Board of Directors have a certain opportunity to assess local conditions. The government also proposes changes to the ownership law that will make it easier to merge two or more units into one. We see that communities today are often organized as smaller units than what is best for the future residents. It may lead to the loss of economies of scale by future residents, such as lower operating and maintenance costs. Today's demand for the consent of the individual section owners makes it almost impossible to merge larger joint ventures. It is resource- and time-consuming to obtain consent, and one section victory alone can stop a merger that a majority wants. The Government therefore proposes to reduce the requirement to a two-thirds majority. The proposal will allow for more common organisations to organise themselves in a way that is more appropriate. I believe that an overall committee agrees with the proposal, and I am pleased to see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1968	I was a little bit into it in my post – a barge layer or the same one that needs fast charging, and there is a wish to make an investment. I have a concrete example from this city: it's a government that wants to invest 500 000 kroner to go from normal charging to high-speed charging, and that thinks this is normal maintenance, and that this should be taxed on all the inhabitants. Of course, there's someone who doesn't need this, and who thinks it's unthinkable that the common costs should increase by 40 pst. I wonder if the council regards fast charging as natural maintenance, or if there is something outside it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1976	Fast charging has a cost that allows the board to define it as something other than an ordinary charging point, which I perceive is what the bill includes. This is about giving individual unit-holders the right to set up charging points within some constraints and that a majority cannot refuse a minority to do so. But fast charging requires a completely different type of infrastructure, so the board will have the opportunity to reject a proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1981	In the specific case I referred to, it's the opposite: the board wants to use the funds for the community to set up a fast charger, while some co-owners think this is outside. How will both current legislation and future legislation regulate this? Would you like a quick charge to be considered as something that is permitted to be carried out by a control decision, or is it required that everyone be a few when everyone is going to be involved and pay for a high-speed charging investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1986	My understanding is that this bill includes charging point, not fast charging point. I would therefore like to say that this bill may not be used to establish a fast charging point for the individual resident, but a charging point.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e1991	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2010	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2017	We are currently handling the configuration of the Committee on Water Resource Changes and Energy Laws – Administrative Reactions and Sanctions. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good and flexible cooperation in this matter, especially towards the end-of-life management, where conditions were discovered which should have been taken care of by the work and which we got into the Committee's work in a good and flexible way. So to the proposition, which contains suggestions for changes in five laws on the energy and watercourse area. New and amended decisions are proposed on administrative responses and sanctions in water resource laws, watercourse regulation laws, energy laws, electricity certification laws and marine energy laws in line with the Prop leadership. 62 L for 2015–2016 and the changes in administrative law in 2016. It is proposed that the regulation on an upper framework for individual fee measurement and on fixed rates be given in simpler cases. For the imposition of fees for enterprises, an approximate objective liability is proposed in line with the administrative law. A new code is also proposed for the administrative withdrawal of illegal benefits in the event of a breach of water resource laws, watercourse regulation laws, energy laws and marine energy laws. Furthermore, new decisions are proposed on the five-year limitation of access to the imposition of fees and the withdrawal of illegal dividends and the clarification of the rules on the withdrawal of the concession. It is also proposed to increase and harmonise criminal penalties in the laws and regulations for offences against marine energy laws. The case has been heard, and the committee has received written hearings. The use of water resources in renewable energy production is an important societal value. It provides renewable power, and the hydropower becomes an increasingly important resource in balancing the power system, where new production is often unregulatable, such as sun and wind. Power plant owners will at any time seek to operate power plants with regard to the requirements as liabilities, but large, natural and irreplaceable variations in operating conditions may make this necessary, and in many cases this will lead to an excessive loss of power generation if one at all levels meets possible extreme events in the future, such as: fleas and droughts. We have made it clear in our remarks that an objective responsibility should be exercised in the event of a particularly serious and reckless breach of the law. There is a broad majority that now provides the setting, and I look forward to good posts in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2034	The central party sees the need for coordination of the provisions on responses and penalties in this area, in line with the amendments to the Administrative Act, and considers the proposal for amendment to be largely unproblematic. However, it is not a simple matter. The centre party takes note and shares the principle view promoted by several hearing bodies in this case. In particular, it is critical to increase the ability to impose responses and sanctions when reducing the threshold for when these can be imposed. The centre party is also sceptical of the proposed administrative access to detention, which appears to already be adequately provided for in other relevant legislation. The Centre also supports the opinion of the Association of Advocates, which points out that energy production, energy transport and other activities in the energy and water transport sector are activities which are significantly affected by extreme weather and natural events. What one in practice proposes is to set the threshold for discharge unreasonably high. Interruptions due to natural events, in addition to those for which facilities can reasonably be expected to be dimensioned, should not entail an infringement fee. The center part shares that vision. Furthermore, the centre party is critical of the proposed more stringent or extended sanctioning measures, while proposing to ease the claim for acquittal in order to penalise irregular behaviour. This applies in particular to infringements committed by undertakings, where it is proposed that the infringement fee be imposed on an objective basis without any requirement for negligent or intentional action. In other words, the proposed changes to the laws add up together to a trend towards stricter penalties, but also lower thresholds to impose them. It is a development that we in the Centre Party are critical of, and we have therefore concluded that we do not support the concrete legislative changes proposed in the proposal, although we recognise the need for coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2047	The legislation in the field of energy and watercourses shall safeguard the overriding interests of both a general and a private nature. Concessions and other decisions shall respect and ensure the balance between environmental, land use and climate considerations, security of supply, the social economy, etc. General preventive considerations suggest that infringements of the law must be dealt with with by effective penalties against the person responsible. A well-functioning sanctioning system will also counteract distortions of competition that may arise when operators can save costs by breaking the legislation. The amendment to the Management Act in 2016 provided some guidance and recommendations on how to design the regulatory framework for administrative responses to specific legislation. In line with these changes and preparations, the Ministry has reviewed the provisions on reactions and sanctions in five of the laws on energy and watercourses. The Government proposes amendments to the provision on the infringement fee for infringements of energy and watercourse legislation. In line with the Administrative Act, individual fee measurements shall be made within an upper framework laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. In addition, the draft law provides for the right to set the level of the infringement fee in the regulation where the fee is not set individually. This contributes to increased clarity and predictability of this reaction form. In line with the Administrative Act, it is proposed to propose an approximate objective liability for undertakings for the imposition of an infringement fee. This makes the reaction form more effective. A new regulatory basis for the administrative withdrawal of unlawful dividends from an infringement has also been proposed. This complements the rules on infringement fees and is also used in legislation in comparable areas. Such homes have been proposed to the Water Resource Act, the Waterways Regulatory Act, the Energy Act and the Marine Energy Act. Some minor changes are proposed in the provisions on periodic penalty payments and in the provisions on penalties in the event of a breach of the Water Resource Act, the Waterways Regulatory Act, the Energy Act and the Electricity Certificates Act. The government proposes an increase and harmonisation of the criminal framework based on a comparison of the level of penalties in similar areas of law. A new provision is proposed on penalties in the event of a breach of the Marine Energy Act. In all the laws, it is proposed to provide a clearer indication of the provisions of obligations which may entail the charge for infringements, penalties and withdrawal. This results in a greater degree of concreteity of the offences that could lead to such reactions. The bill has been at the hearing. As indicated in the proposal, most hearing bodies were in favour of clarifying and coordinating the provisions on responses to breaches of the relevant laws with the new provisions of the Administrative Act. Several are positive to a more consistent and predictable treatment of administrative response issues. Some were critical to propose more stringent or extended penalties, to facilitate the requirement of acquittal, to infringement fees for undertakings and to provide a new basis for administrative withdrawal. At the same time, I note that the proposal has received good support from the Committee on Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2079	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, seven lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2086	Today, the majority deals with the first whole issue of environmental crime. The Government has proposed 97 evaluation proposals. I must also thank the Committee for its good cooperation. Environmental crime affects the common good of society, has a low risk of detection, and globally it is the third largest illegal economy. International pollution crime is rapidly increasing. In particular, it concerns illegal trade in hazardous waste. The Committee considers that general prevention should continue to be a priority. It concerns targeted information work, guidance and effective risk-based supervision. However, long treatment periods and a relatively high proportion of provisions weaken the general prevention. Penalties and penalties must be constantly assessed against seriousness and general prevention. Ecocrime has an important role, but matters should preferably be followed up locally. Therefore, police districts need to build a stronger professional environment on environmental crime. Environmental crime, such as illegal introduction, can have a major impact on natural diversity and lead to significant socio-economic costs. An important example of this is the salmon parasite gyrodactylus salaris introduced in Norway in the 1970s. It's cost Norway $4 billion. kr in loss of salmon fishing and re-establishment of watercourses. After that, I would like to mention some of the areas that the Labour Party believes should be given special priority in the future. In its latest threat assessment, ecocrim has highlighted profit-based regulatory violations in waste management as very serious. The use of weaknesses in our electrical and electronic waste return system has resulted in significant illegal exports. The Labour Party believes that we need clearer measures to prevent the waste from drifting away. We believe that producer responsibility needs to be strengthened, the plants that receive and process this waste need to be standardised, and violations of the legislation need to have greater consequences. Another major challenge is illegal ship recycling and scrapping in developing countries. Norway needs to increase efforts to bring more countries into ratification of the Hong Kong Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Ship Recovery. In recent years ecocrim has investigated many major and serious pollution issues related to the management of hazardous waste. There is a need for clearer guidance on knowledge-based management of different types of hazardous waste. We also need to strengthen control over imports of health and environmental products and chemicals. They have a direct impact on health and the external environment. Increasing online trade, many small companies without employees and non-compliance with product legislation make it extra challenging to stop imports of illegal chemicals. With that, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party has promoted together with the SV and the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2107	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2112	Environmental crime is a broad concept, and it is large, such as oil spills, and small, such as the burning of illegal waste on a farm. The subject is complex and complex. The centre party believes it is good that we have received the first communication on environmental crime, and we hope that it will help put environmental crime on the agenda and contribute to increased knowledge, understanding and commitment on the subject. The Communication describes Norway's comprehensive and rigorous environmental legislation, our well-functioning environmental management and the acute competence for environmental crime we find in Ecocrime, which assists police districts. In addition, the importance of effective general prevention for the prevention of environmental crime has been strongly highlighted by the Court of Justice in the last 20 years. Environmental crime is serious and requires a complex instrument. The Central Party has noted that many of the proposals in the Communication are at an ‘estimate-stage’ and that there is a long way between the very concrete proposals on which the Stortinget has been invited to decide. However, the notification has a strong focus on intensification, penalties and penalties. For us, the aim of a tightening of penalties in this context must be to reduce the number of deliberate and/or intentional violations of the law, not just more severe convictions – especially in cases where guilt and possibly intentional is less or completely absent. In this field of law, the infringements may range from the purely intentional and economically motivated to infringements caused by an negligent but unfortunate incident. An actual and legal review of how and how precisely proposed legislative changes take place and limit infringements should be better visible in the work or provided with this Communication. The centre party will point out that prevention work, including: by means of guidance, cooperation, information and information sharing, some of the most important measures in this area are related to the management's obligation to provide guidance, but also to change behaviour and develop best practices in line with the requirements and legislation in force. As pointed out, the key values of environmental crime are that there is a low risk of detection but a high potential for economic gain – taking into account the importance of general prevention. However, it is important for the legal certainty perspective that objectives and instruments are linked and appear proportional rather than random. It does not, however, change the need for the possibility of imposing penalties for the most serious offences in this area. But the centre party fears that the government with this message is helping to shift the centre of gravity of the intervention apparatus from prevention to purely criminal measures. There is a development to which the Centre Party has expressed scepticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2133	The Government shall have the credit for the preparation of this wholesale message, as the first of its kind. SV of course fully agrees with what the message says that environmental crime has a low risk of detection compared to other forms of crime. Much of this is due to system failure, and much is due to the depriorization of the seriousness of the issues. In part, it is mirrored by the criminal responses and the criminal evaluation. It's how society ranks seriously in an infringement or criminal act. But what about the tools and measures in this message? We also need to adopt something here that really helps and provides the authorities with the tools to take action on behalf of nature, and there is a lot of lack of it. There is little in this proposal for a government – a lot of evaluations, as also mentioned by the previous representative. They do not provide enough muscle for the Environment Directorate or the Petroleum Authority in the SV's opinion, nor do they provide police and prosecution powers. It is good that the government assesses the rigours and the laws to be applied. The general penalty framework in the Nature Diversity Act is fines or prisons for up to one year. It's good when it says: ‘An increase in the penalties framework at the same level as, among other things, financial crime and victories’ offences may be necessary: [[...]] An increase in the penalty framework is suggested to be six years and SV appears to be reasonable. Otherwise it's quite interesting to observe that the Center Party and the Advance Party find each other in comments here that might suggest that they don't exactly view environmental crime as particularly serious. They write, among other things,\t\t You can ‘These members believe that there is a need to refer to something more than a general trend towards increased penalties in other areas of society and that this should mean that other prevention measures are not relevant.’ That was also what the previous speaker pointed out. This is an insular position that SV can support. But does the Centre Party, and in particular the Advance Party, also consider this in other areas, that prevention measures need to be given more emphasis than punishment? It is significant that this attitude only concerns environmental crime, as far as I have learned, in other areas of society. It is proposed to investigate more closely to increase the penalties for motorcycling, and it is assessed in the same way for wildlife, the Nature Diversity Act and the Cultural Memory Act. That's what SV thinks is good. I've seen countless examples of the need for exactly this. With this I address the proposals No. 19 and 20, which SV has promoted together with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2160	The representative Arve Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2165	Environmental crime is a relatively new crime area, but it is very important and very serious because it affects our common good. Environmental crime is currently at low risk of detection, and its consequences can be detected much later and may be found in a completely different location from where the infringement occurred. That is why the work of the government has now started is so crucial – the first communication on environmental crime. As we tend to say, a bourgeois government had to do it! It is also worth thanking for the cooperation we have had in the committee, for this is of course a matter for which all parties are concerned. This Communication therefore presents for the first time a comprehensive policy to strengthen the response to environmental crime, both nationally and internationally. This Committee on Energy and the Environment has been on a committee tour in other countries, where we have seen how serious environmental crime is also outside our borders, of course. in the case of rainforest. Action against environmental crime at national and international level should be reinforced, thereby also reducing the negative impact of this type of crime on the climate and the environment. We provide the basis for long-term follow-up work across different sectors, and the Communication proposes no less than 97 measures to be assessed by the government. Environmental crime is lucrative, it is the third largest illegal economy in the world today, but so incredibly important that we stop. Therefore, this groundbreaking, holistic work is important. I would like to thank the Committee for the good cooperation and for the fact that we are now receiving this communication in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2176	The government gave us the big message about environmental crime, which the Storting today is getting excited to deal with and discuss. This is the first time a big message has been submitted on environmental crime, and I am pleased that the committee agrees that it is good that we put it on the agenda, which is what many people say both in the articles today and in the vote. Environmental crime differs from other crimes in several ways. Firstly, environmental crime is a common good that belongs to society. The negative consequences of environmental crime are added to the burden of legal intervention, withdrawals from and emissions to nature. The risk of detection is also low. There's a lot of tension in actors and motives. Crime in many cases is based on a desire for economic gain, but also on people's lack of access to legislation, or simply because they are different in legislation. The government believes it is important to counter environmental crime on a broad front with a wide range of measures. Prevention is the primary strategy, since the best thing is, of course, always to prevent crime from happening initially. The authorities can do an even better job of informing about legislation and the values the legislation is supposed to last, including in cooperation with organisations and businesses. When crime has happened, it is decisive that it is detected, and that society reacts to the crime in a proportional way and a purposeful way. Norway has a large area of land, and it is imperative to keep them in order. Correspondingly, it requires a great deal of resources to follow up the operation of all activities in accordance with an environmental legislation. Both nature and the supervision of activities take place on the basis of ongoing risk assessments. In the message we have identified some areas where we think there is a particular need for more effort. We will also look more closely at the organisation of supervisory activities and strengthen cooperation across different supervisory authorities and between the police and the authorities. We further suggest that there is a potential for more use of technology to detect environmental crime. It includes, for example: use of satellites, drones and artificial intelligence. General prevention is important in the field of environmental crime, and punishment is likely to be necessary to deter others from committing environmental crime. The government of my serious environmental crime must be followed up in the criminal trail. The impact notification consists of a reference to measures against environmental crime both nationally and internationally. I notice that the international has got a little less attention in the setting, but I still think it is worth mentioning here. It's a very important work. Environmental crime has great economic consequences for countries on all continents. Norway contributed significantly internationally through Interpol, through the rainforest work, through the aid work, etc. So here we're going to be able to keep an eye on both our secret environmental crime and what we can do on the international arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2197	Norway has a global responsibility to prevent the spread of heavy metals and other pollutants. Electronic and electrical waste, among other things, often consists of scarce resources, which are attractive for the marketing and financing of international crime. So the question is, what are the most important measures that you think can be taken in Norway to prevent this waste from going astray?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2202	Thank you to the representative Grung for a good question. EE waste is undoubtedly a major problem and needs both national and international action. We have a fairly detailed description of it in the message. But something worth mentioning, which we are now working on, is that we should strengthen the legislation on EE waste, so that it becomes clear that taking waste submitted to the scheme is not allowed, and that one can get punishment or other sanctions. There will be clearer requirements for securing the waste. This year, in cooperation with the Environment Directorate, we have strengthened the supervision of border crossings, among others. We have started a thorough review of the entire producer responsibility scheme for EE waste, which we are now waiting for the result. Illegal cross-border trade in EE waste is a serious problem, and we also participated internationally in our work in the Basel Convention and to the extent through the EU to prevent the type of export of what is both valuable waste and sometimes hazardous waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2211	I thank you for your answer. I think I'll follow it up, because it's very extensive. But the message is also comprehensive. It has a lot of exciting themes, including: online commerce. The Central Statistical Office shows that we have received a five-fold increase in imports from 2010 to 2018. That means that the Nordics are going to spend 60 billion dollars. kr for online commerce in the year. The legislation developed is largely adapted to physical imports and not to online commerce. Here's a lot of chemical products and other pollutants that it's not entirely lucky to get into our systems. What are the main measures to reduce the imports of hazardous chemicals and toxins?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2218	It probably depends a little on what type of product category it is, and where it is traded. There are rules about this, but there is no doubt that the representative is entitled to make online commerce more demanding with controls, for example, and overview. And there is online trade in products that may be dangerous for individuals, but also for the environment through the use of illegal chemicals, typically outside the EEA territory. There is also a significant trade in endangered animal species and their components. I do not think there is any doubt that this is something we must follow closely as the online trade grows. I don't think that here, in the same way as in ordinary trade, we will be able to discover everything, but there's no doubt that control operations, for example. will be objective and will be able to discover something.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2225	I thank you again for the answer. I see that the EU has also addressed this issue, but I believe that Norway is among the countries that use relatively much of the population in online commerce, so we should catch that. The last question goes to the municipalities, because it's a challenge that a lot of land is being built out illegally. It also leads to loss of nature. I read in the message that a recent supervisor of the Planning and Building Act on how to follow up such illegalities has not been established. It also states that there is relatively little follow-up – that there is little activity linked to the illegal follow-up of decisions or that there are construction sites that should not have been there. The question is: do you realize that creating such a guide will be a good step forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2234	Yes, she can. I know from experience that there are a little different practices between municipalities and not least between counties, which are often responsible for following up some illegalities, and there is also a little question about what they are talking about. I know that there is now a stronger focus – that’s good – on following up illegal construction in beach areas, for example. Especially around the Oslo Earth, there is now a set of more resources for it and also imposed orders to clean up where illegal interference has been done. Now I think that the main challenge for Norwegian nature is the legal intervention, because it is clear that very valuable nature is being built in Norway, which is made in line with rules and decisions, but for which there may still be cause for concern. But it is at least so that where there are illegal extensions, a follow it carefully. It'll sometimes be a resource question, but I'll definitely look at this tutorial recording. I think it's worth following.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2241	Let me first thank you for the cooperation on this matter, which the representative Heggelund refers to as a ‘road-breaking’ – not less! Much attention has been paid by the government to the prevention work that needs to be done in these kinds of cases, especially because it is necessary to identify parts of the environmental crime described in the message. At the same time, it is obvious that it may be necessary to work effectively in the prevention work without simply building up new bureaucracy. The question is what kind of concrete action the government intends to take in the prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2248	There is no doubt that preventive work is both important and demanding. It's the right one, and there's no goal of building up a lot of public administration resources to make things more bureaucratic. But I think we all have a lot to go on, and many of the environmental authorities have a lot to go on when it comes to disseminating information. To give an example, when illegal fishing of salmon and sea ures is involved, the rules vary somewhat in different parts of the country because there is a different state of stocks, etc. It's clear that there's legislation that's trying to get the best out of it, and where one likes to give a little more slack at the beginning than after a few years, but one should know the rules. There's one example of something where it's important to be well informed, so that people don't, in any case, go unrelentingly with environmental crime. There should be no target.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2255	This has actually gone so far that even SV has come to realize that the Progress Party is aware that one has to punish clearly and hard in these kinds of cases, too, when someone is involved in crime. At the same time, it is said that it is demanding to discover, and so we are some, as we have also written in the comments, that it is important to work well in the prevention work. But can we expect that this arrest of punishments and sanctions is also fundamental in other matters that the government will deliver to the Storting the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2262	It may, in the sense that the government is busy using punishment as an effective tool, when there is reason to believe that it is effective. I thought this polemic between SV and the Progress Party was interesting, but I also think there is reason to go through, because it is not that punishment is always an effective tool, regardless of what the law is about. I think, for example, there is quite a big difference between whether there is an important universal prevention function of punishment, when it comes to economically motivated crime, which has been calculated in a way, and that is often what we are talking about here, and when it comes to serious crime being made in an affected way, for example. It is likely that the general prevention factor is less relevant. I think one should bring it with me when one discusses the level of punishment. After all, we have suggested that we consider increasing the penalties in the area of environmental crime, because we think it is comparable to economic crime, the crime of winnings. We see that the penalties are higher there, and this should correspond.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2269	There is hardly any area in Norwegian environmental management where there is a greater need to cooperate across the ministerial boundaries than in forest management. When time and again it is revealed that red-listed species and important habitats are being hopped out – with the law in hand and with the certificate of sustainable hooves on the inner pockets – it is very soon necessary to call some bells. Can the Council of State envisage taking the initiative to set up a new sample, or at least to sit down with the Minister of Agriculture and find solutions where both the environmental movement, biologists and industry can agree on a certification system that can all stand behind and that can be verified by the justice system afterwards, a system that is not a goat-and-oat regime, as many see the current one? It's actually contrary to normal legal perception as it is now. Governments must be aware of what is happening in Norwegian forests today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2275	I don't think I'm going to venture to put down a public selection on the kick, here and now, but I'm taking note of the input from the representative Nävra, and I'd like to have a discussion with my colleague the Minister of Agriculture about how we can ensure that the arrangements we have are too rigorously high, enjoy general confidence. Of course, it's a goal that they should do it. I agree with the representative that it is important to have the best possible overview and take the necessary care of vulnerable nature types when working with the timber industry. We always have to get better at it, I agree with it, but to put some selection on the kick I don't think I'm going to do it. However, I would say that much has been done from this government's side to ensure that we care for and secure important forest areas, not least the essential resources we spend every year on voluntary forest protection, which is a system of great trust, which is popular and which is a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2282	I thank you for the answer, and I record a very positive attitude from the Council of State. So do I. But the protection of forests is now one thing. We also have the ninety percent left after the Storting has reached its target of 10 pst. protection and how it is managed. I don't think we need what the Council of State refers to, either drones or artificial intelligence, in order to record biological occurrences. This state council has a registration capacity and biological knowledge through its directorate, and then we also have a nutrition department, and we have the Ministry of Agriculture, which controls the harvest. So it's kind of a classic conflict, we have to admit it. There may soon be a dilemma here between economic interests, industrial interests and the interests of nature. That's why I have this notion that a sample should be set down, and that we could manage to get a solution that environmental movement and industry can much more agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2289	I think that at least we have to work systematically to map Norwegian nature, so that we know what the state is, and what we find choirs. After all, this government is also systematically working on ecological mapping, ecological base maps, and has seen significant resources for it in the budget for next year, just so we can get that knowledge up. And so I think the representative is right that even if one knows a lot, there might be different points of view and different interests when it comes to the administration of that area, and that's probably always the way it is. I think it should be done well, even with all the best knowledge on earth, that environmental movement – to the extent that it is unanimous in its position – fully agrees with the commercial interests in all matters. I think that sometimes there is a slightly different view of risk and management, and we probably have to live with that. But we're lucky to be a democracy, so we can break those opinions both here and in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2296	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2303	Then I can get a little bit into the reason for the line change. That's a good reason. I want to bring this heartache and a strong alarm message, not just from me, but from all those who join Norwegian forest management with environmental policy eyes. In forestry, it seems that most things are allowed. There is no environmental crime in forestry, apparently, if one should believe the number of police cases. About all cases with a review of the highest are closed, despite the fact that countless hogs violate the law on natural diversity. The peaks in the Follsjø area of Notodden are one of them. It was not contrary to the law, despite the fact that a number of red-listed species are being hopped out. The forest’s own certification system and self-checking did not at all capture the professional biologist’s registered right next door. This was, in fact, a slaughter of forestry's own recording methodology. The media made it very big, and it is alarming that the practice only continues. When will the state councils talk? That's what the cord shift meant. When can we have a certification system that is truly sustainable and environmentally friendly and ensure that important environmental values are respected? That's the big question. There would have been a great spring in the hat for the Council of State if it were the sitting council that took that initiative, and it would be very well received in the environment. I think the Council of State is fully aware of that. It shall not be possible for the industry to hide behind non-functioning laws and non-functioning certification. We're looking at nationwide that just about 20 pst. of the forest is left which has not been flattened and significantly smaller in the lowlands of the east. In these flatlands important habitats and red-listed species disappear every day. I have sailed and looked at the closeness of how the tiurles have been wiped out with the law in hand. It has not been registered. Red list species have disappeared. I've seen it closely. It's gone. I'm sorry. You didn't keep up the class. There is no punishment, no response. It's being desecrated. The Union for the Protection of Nature has countless issues in this area. And we kind of accept this. You don't get to grips with it. None of these reports have been made, despite the fact that they appear to be clear breaches of the conditions of the PEFC standard to which Section 5 of the sustainability regulation of the forestry law refers. They are sentenced as no criminal offence if they are reported. The understanding of ecocrim is certain that § 5 cannot be used because it does not contain a list of criminal offences, but refers to the private PEFC agreement whose contents are not controlled by the authorities. This is starting to approach a circular conclusion and a circular assessment. I say again: I hope the Council of State looks into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2318	I was actually on my way out of the hall, but when SV takes advantage of this occasion, and unfortunately the Council of State was lured into the reasoning in the line-up, in a matter which, after all, is all about environmental crime, to bring forward the legally regulated highest level within the responsible framework of the whole forest industry, and that it is being dragged into the context of environmental crime, one or another must respond to this house. For it is quite right, as the representative Arne Nävra concludes in his statement, after having rolled over the legal activity in the forest industry, that when cases are reported, they are dismissed as non-criminals. It is because it is not illegal to operate active forestry in this country, because it is not illegal to conduct a forestry policy that contributes to industrialisation and value creation on the Norwegian forest resource – precisely because it is the resilient management that has taken place in forest industry through generations, which has been the basis for Norwegian industrial adventures for over a hundred years, and which are actually legally housed, both through the framework within which forest industry operates and through the various certification schemes that forest industry itself has. The problem that the representative Nävra travels should be rejected by the Council of State, because it is not based on anything that reminds us of the root of reality. When the council first said that he would take this, it's okay, I accept it, but I suggest that he take it with him and pull the tape into the trash box.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2325	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2330	I'm going to be with the representative Dale on sustainable forest logging – it should just be missing. There we can stand shoulder to shoulder, when the representative Dale agrees on what is most sustainable. It is a very relevant question I raised, because here we are talking about a violation of the Nature Diversity Act, but there are also several other laws inside the picture. What we're talking about here is the interpretation of the law, and that's also how different laws are set up against each other. It is very important that the government take hold of this field and look precisely at the different laws against each other, not least § 5, to which I referred, and to the place of the Nature Diversity Act in the forest management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-19.ana.ud132e2339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
