ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e28	The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e33	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Elise Bjørnebeck-Waaagen and myself, I am delighted to propose measures to strengthen the serious actors in the working life and to increase recruitment to the craftsmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e38	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e54	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Sveinung Rotevatn will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e63	Yesterday I visited the Salvation Army and the Red Cross here in Oslo. At the Salvation Army they tell us that parents are going to rent daily with young children and ask for help to get food and money to pay bills. At the helpline of the Red Cross, they tell about young people calling, with big problems, including suicidal thoughts, and stories about everything from assault to loneliness. Children's and youth's psychiatric outpatient clinics have over 80 pst. fewer enquiries, and a source of police reports that when it comes to working with violence in close relationships, there is a fall in demand for help – that’s not a good news. The stories confirm the large picture from the report to the government coordination group, which looks at the offer of vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic. This is very alarming. It could be about 20 pst. of our young people — up to 220,000 children and young people in such a situation. This is kind of an alert crisis. When you shut down all the arenas for children, from school to leisure time, and when government family protection offices in the municipalities are shut down, we have a group of very vulnerable children. When making a decision with such extensive consequences – the Prime Minister says they are the most comprehensive since the war – despite the fact that it was not a specialist advice, but it was a shut-down, we have to expect that the government and the responsible State Council have a plan to follow up the children you know are vulnerable. On 19 March – one week after the closure – a unanimous decision was taken that critical services, such as the apparatus for children and young people at particular risk, had to be properly operated and financed. I do not doubt that the Council of State Ropstad shares the concerns of these children – really not – but my question is: What did the Council of State actually do at the moment they shut down, to follow up these vulnerable children – who were known to come – from day one?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e72	Thank you very much for your important questions. This has been one of my great concerns from day one. When we realized that there was going to be a closure of the schools, my great concern was: what happens to the kids who are initially having trouble, who grow up in their homes where they do not get the care they need, and in the worst case are being subjected to violence and abuse? That's why we were very clear that, yes, we had to have a coordinated shutdown. We saw that there were different municipalities that started shutting down or warning that they wanted to shut down the schools, not necessarily with such a good plan for how to take care of social-critical functions, ensuring that parents who worked in hospitals, in health care, child protection and other important services had the opportunity to have kindergartens, etc. That's why we said very clearly that the vulnerable children also had to be able to go to school and use kindergarten, in the same way as the societally critical functions. Then I also wanted to get more information, because the feedback that the representative Gahr Big parts from non-governmental organisations and other agencies were clear that one had a concern about how this would affect vulnerable children. That's why we set up a coordination group where we used the different directorates, asked for input from trade unions, non-governmental organisations and children's representatives to get an even better picture of reality. The situation report describes, as the representative says, that several of the help services have closed down more than the infectious advice provided. That's why we continued to be clear – and that's a difficult combination, I just have to admit, that on the one hand you had to shut down the schools and get the employees to be more at home, and at the same time be clear that the most vulnerable should have the opportunity to be in school and kindergarten. We reinforced that message even before Easter, and I have needed to reinforce that message further now in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e79	It just doesn't last. It's a concerned state council – and that's good reason. But every day counts. What I hear here is a government council that wants to be clear in the message, that's worried, and that sets down a coordination group. But every day after the schools were shut down, there have been vulnerable days. What has the Council of State done to follow up the municipalities with resources, with supervisors, with attention? We shut down too much, pointing out the government councils, for the sake of infection. So did all government agencies. Family protection offices were closed between 13 and 26 March. The councils were worried, but every day they count. What I'm asking is, at the moment this decision was taken, was it a plan? Is it a follow-up? Is it a system? The report of the coordination group came on 20 April. It has been exempt from public disclosure for nine days and the measures to address the concerns of the report are not yet public. Isn't this a waste of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e84	From day one we took action. One of the most important things we did was for example. defining child protection as a societally critical function — precisely because child protection employees should have the opportunity to go to work while the children had the opportunity to be in kindergarten and at school. We have been concerned that the various services should work optimally. I would also like to stress that we have been in the country's greatest crisis since the war. There has also been a lot of demanding information. There have been decisions at a time when we did not have the full overview. That is why we have been constantly engaged in following up and taking action. One of the first Biggest also did, was to grant 6 billion. kr to the municipalities that they should just have the opportunity to get through the crisis. That is why, as the Council responsible for child protection, I have followed them closely, given them clear feedback and measured the state. There is a great deal that works well, so although the situation report points out that many of the measures have gone beyond what is necessary, there are also very many services that work well and provide assistance to these vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e91	It opens for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e96	I want to give tribute to many municipalities that have thrown themselves around. After political districts today, where the council once again pointed to the municipalities, I contacted ten municipalities in Norway, that is what I raked – small and large, from north to south. No one has heard from the Council of State. No follow-up has been given in the form of a guide or concrete attention. I have no doubt that the concern is there. I'm not in doubt that many may have shut down too much, and that's not strange, in line with the very dramatic shut-down that came, but my point is again: what action are you taking to follow up and ensure that these services work and are up? We have seen a report that is very alarming in its conclusions, and that is not shared. Why was this report not shared with the municipalities on 20 April, so that they could study it and also make representations to the council? He has spent nine days evaluating and ensuring the quality of the report. Those who could really input here are the municipalities. So I want to know, what kind of contact and what readiness does the Council of State and the government have to follow up the municipalities in this extraordinary situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e101	I have e.g. has had close contact with Bufdir. We have asked the statesmen to give feedback on the state of the different municipalities. Nor is it the case that the government of this country is operating in such a way that a Council of State has direct contact with every rapporteur around it. I myself have had contact with several rapporteurs who have given me important feedback. But the various agencies and directorates follow up on a continuous basis. Therefore, it is not correct that there have not been sent out guides. Guides, up-to-date guides have been sent out from the situation as it has evolved. So I really don't agree with the reality description that the representative points to. What I've been concerned about, is that now it's fully possible to carry out infection protection, because that's what still needs to be done. Distances must be kept, local workplaces must be adapted, child-rescue, health centres, but it must be possible to take account of the needs of families and children at the same time as the provision of services. But another concern is that very many people cancel agreements because they're afraid of infection. That's why it's important for us that people aren't afraid to show up, whether it's at child protection or at the health center.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e106	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e111	This situation highlights a challenge for the follow-up of vulnerable citizens in our country – the sharing of responsibilities between government and municipalities. What you have to expect when you make such a dramatic decision in mid-March is that there is a system in place to follow up the municipalities so that the vulnerable children can get help. Now the council says that a lot is done, and that a lot is done better. Well, the report shows that there are over 200,000 children in this category. The Children's Ombudsman says that it is difficult for her to do her job, and the public health authorities say that there is too much shut down. This does not apply only in the municipalities. It's shut down a lot in the state floors. I'm worried that the government is reacting too late on such information. Nine days of quality assurance of reports when there is a clear message that immediate action is needed, means that we have to expect a much clearer follow-up of the municipalities, a much clearer follow-up of the government's state agencies. I want to hear what the Council of State's view on how to do this in the future – tomorrow we can expect another press conference on how to correct the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e119	I think it's a strange criticism of a so-called secrecy for nine days. It is perfectly normal procedure that when a department receives a report – which in this case was a report I asked for because I wanted coordination between five different directorates, which would coordinate with several departments – one must have the opportunity to go through it. I want to send a political signal to tell you how we want to follow up the report. With regard to crisis management and management, it is precisely to maintain the normal procedures that are extremely important. All of a sudden, it was to depart from it in as important areas as this, I believe, would be irresponsible. That's why I want to commend the various agencies that have been working on bombs to do this as quickly as they actually do. I'm concerned about the way forward. That is why we have today presented a package of measures aimed at vulnerable children – 400 million. kr in various services – just to provide them with health care, activity and to follow up the children we know had the extra demanding these weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e126	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e131	I'll follow up on this with secrecy. There is a pattern that the government is too late for child protection. A long time ago, the opposition asked whether the Council of State would come to the Storting and explain the situation: it was not necessary. Now we see secrecy, and we see the retention of information. It seems that the Council of State does not want to have a broad debate on how to govern child protection. It is not enough for the Council of State to want to do everything by itself, and in times of crisis it is normally necessary to do so after the first phase of the crisis. But then it has to be done quickly. That's where it fails in this case. Sitting on reports for days and exempting them from publicity is actually not understanding the crisis that is. What will the Council of State do to include widely in the debate on the further management of the state of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e140	As far as child protection is concerned, I have been given the right to inform the Corona Committee of the Great Britain, with the various parliamentary leaders, about the situation of vulnerable children and have identified the main points of the first survey that Bufdir had with the various municipal child protection. That's what I think was useful. I have also had the opportunity to say it directly to the committee, have published the reports, and it has been out in the media. My great concern about child protection has been that one has not, for example, have been visited at home as much as one can under the rules on the protection of infection. I've been very concerned that they can give priority to emergencies, and that's why we were very early on to send out a message on what kind of issues they need to prioritise in order to prioritise the most vulnerable, the most acute cases. Then we have now received a new report on the state of child protection, and I will also publish it. It shows that it's better. Then I have asked to explain to the Storting in order to have just the broad debate that the representative wants, because it is an extraordinary situation, and we are extremely concerned that child protection should work as best as possible to help the vulnerable kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e147	Kari Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e152	The state council's constant concern for the children and families in child protection is in fact the most worrying thing in this case, for he has been worried for a long time. Report on the report has shown a failure in the Child Protection Service, and now there is a new, serious report at the Council of State. The government failed the most vulnerable children when it applied most. His power of action does not even seem to be able to silence his own concern. Once again he shows that the municipalities have to solve his and the government's challenges. The responsibility for providing children with equivalent services irrespective of where they live and for complying with the law lies with the Council of State and the Council of State alone. He can't run from that. What will he do now to ensure that the children who have not been provided with their statutory services are met as quickly as possible? And can he guarantee that he will provide the necessary resources to the municipalities so that they can provide the children in the future in a better way than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e159	Fortunately, the situation in child protection shows that things are going better. They're able to adapt better, even in the demanding situation they're in. Of course, my main concern is that because of the measures taken to prevent infection, these kids do not meet the same number of safe adults, whether they are in school, in kindergarten, in recreational activities, in health centres, etc. This means that there are fewer safe adults who can return a message to child protection. The number of child protection requests has decreased. I think that's because some families hesitate to contact just for the purposes of infection. We also look at fixed medical facilities, hospitals, etc. That is why we are very concerned about sending a signal to the municipalities that they have to do what they can to adapt to the measures to prevent infection and maintain a good offer. We've done that through guides, messages, Bufdir, statesmen, etc. In addition, there are major changes and improvements in child protection, whether it be in competence, new child protection laws, the use of digital tools. This is something we have an enormously strong focus on improving.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e166	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e171	The political decision to close schools and kindergartens is behind this serious situation. What the reports now show about vulnerable children is no surprise. It also confirms the Council of State. This is the result of a notified crisis – one so this comes, but the government did little or nothing to prevent this, except to be concerned. From the outset, the Labour Party has criticized the government for not having a good enough plan for the closure of schools and kindergartens. One has not given the municipalities, teachers and principals good enough tools, and the consequence of this we see now. I'm especially concerned about the kids in the edge zone, the ones that are not already in the system. Where daily contact with school or kindergarten is part of prevention, the possibility of follow-up, guidance and control has now been lost. So now the schools have been closed for eight weeks, and I'm looking for what concrete grip the Minister of Children has proposed. Until now, I have only heard one general grip from the government. From 12 March until now, what concrete action has the Minister for Children taken in his dialogue with the rest of the government to ensure that the most vulnerable children do not get hurt — when schools and kindergartens start again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e182	We have implemented a number of measures. In the case of the vulnerable children who are struggling at school, the most important thing we have done is to open up that they can actually be in school. From day one we opened up that yes, those who have parents who have social-critical functions, who work in child protection, hospitals, health services, can have their children in school and kindergarten. But in addition to that, we said that vulnerable groups can also be allowed, there are families who have relief measures in child protection, or parents who are drug addicts, have mental disorders, etc., and so there had to be a concrete local assessment. But at the same time it was demanding, I think, too many municipalities, because there were few children who were in school and kindergartens. For this reason, the Minister of Knowledge was also very clear that the municipalities, or schools, which are going to make these assessments, have to open up more. There has been a very important message from us all along, precisely to protect the vulnerable children while at the same time being able to carry out the disease prevention measures, which are absolutely necessary in order to avoid terrible conditions in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e189	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e195	Once again, the Council of State only refers to this one overall grip that the government did, and as the reports now show, did not work well enough, especially because the government has not followed up with the necessary resources to ensure this. But that state council mentions, which I'm also concerned about, and which is the big question now, is the further reopening of the schools, so that more people can come back. I have criticized the government for not having a good enough plan for the shutdown. Now we've been waiting a long time for the reopening plan, which unfortunately comes very abruptly, without the necessary tools and with great delays. The most important thing now, when the children are back in school and kindergarten, is that we get away from the state of emergency and back to a normal state at school, so that you can get the good pedagogical help and training you need. What guarantees can the Council of State provide that students and parents now have before the summer holiday a normal situation with regard to special education and the provision of pupils with special needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e204	I really disagree that we have just taken one action. I can stand here and frame up a number of measures. One of the most important things for municipalities has been to get the economy in place. The size has granted 6 billion. kr., a real handshake for even better follow-up of these children. We have e.g. made the alarm phone open 24 hours and opened the chat phone. A number of non-governmental organisations have done the same. We have made child protection a socially critical function and have had special attention to the most vulnerable. A coordination group with the different directorates has just been set up to provide the best possible overview. I could still do that. In order to look ahead — the evaluation can rather be made later — the government has a great desire, and we have signaled this, to open as much as possible, so that as much as possible can be returned to school. But of course I can't stand here and guarantee a normal situation before summer. We're still in a serious situation, and we have to deal with infectious diseases. It is not possible to open everything as normal and give it to everyone. Therefore, it is particularly important that everyone does what they can to protect these vulnerable children. It is not easy for the municipalities either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e213	Silje Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e218	It is good that the Council of State is stressing normal procedures, but I would like to remind you that the Korona law that the government has put forward reminded you little about it. I would also like to remind the Council of State that the Corona Committee is not the same as briefing the Storting. The progress party thinks it is very serious, what emerges from the report that children have been subjected to serious failure, as I would call it. The fact that it has allegedly taken nine days before the report was published upsets us in the Progress Party, but I have to say that as the child's child's representative, it makes it extra bad to read that the children's representative actually goes to work so hard and says that this makes her job difficult. We lose valuable time every day. So I wonder, is it true that it took so many days before the report was published, because the Council of State was in line for the government's daily press conference?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e227	When it's talking about nine days, one must also include the weekend. This is regardless of the record speed at which reports are submitted. There was a coordination group with five directorates, where I am pleased that the Children's Ombudsman is involved in making representations to that group, where non-governmental organisations, where trade unions also make their input in order for us to have the best possible decision-making basis. But it is also the case that we need to coordinate work between four departments. I think it is also important for us to be able to come up with a common, coordinated message, to be able to talk about what is in the report. So this is completely normal procedure. If there's something abnormal, it's that it's gone so fast. But I can promise the magnificence representative that the next report will only be addressed for three or four working days; it will be published tomorrow. It is also important that there is great openness around it, because I am concerned about having a debate in order to have the best possible action to take for the vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e236	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e241	The last information was positive, because it shows that it is possible to provide these reports more quickly. I want to go back to the secret, because the Council of State does not answer the questions, not even the simple question that came here, about whether the press conference, that is, the government's communication strategy, decided when the report was presented. In the NRK's studio on Monday, Ropstad said he had just received the report, but he didn't have it. He had had it for two weeks and spent nine days putting it forward. The consequences of this can be seen in the newspaper article today, where the Children's Ombudsman says that the secrecy of the measures in this report makes her job heavier, and the head of the Press Public Service Committee says: ‘The government abuses the disclosure law in order to exempt disclosure much more than is necessary in this situation.’ It's a pretty strong diet. Now the question is, what does the Council of State answer? Is he not able to take some self-criticism for a situation where the child ombudsman must seek insight instead of getting insight in time to act?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e255	I have no problems evaluating and seeing if I should probably have done things differently and even faster – perhaps something should have been done slower. But we're in the middle of a very serious situation for the most vulnerable kids. I have done what we can, put my device to work on blasts to make different actions. They I need to continue working with, and hopefully get delivered, get through as quickly as possible. Today we deliver measures of 400 million. kr – to health centres to ensure a health service, to schools for the follow-up of those who are struggling at school, for holidays and activities for those who have not had activities and who are not going to have them this summer. That's why I also want to challenge the Storting and the municipalities: what happens when, hopefully, this crisis passes? Those kids go into eight weeks of summer vacation where the schools are going to be closed. What does SV's City Council in Oslo think about summer school, for example.? Should an activity offer be completed? No, one has suggested shutting it down. My wish is for everyone to turn around to create activity, to create school offerings, just to get these kids to have activity, to get back to the lost progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e266	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e271	It is precisely in order to have such an informed debate also outside the government's meeting room that more information needs to be made available more quickly. That's when you can make sure that a few more than the Council of State and his closest apparatus can actually help develop these solutions. But the consequences of the secrecy of this report were that the alarm went late than it should have done. I think the answer to the criticism is a little hairy, you feel that this is unreasonable criticism because it has been very normal proceedings. Well, it's a very abnormal situation, and my call to the government is that in a very abnormal situation you might think that more openness than usual would be an advantage. Instead, we see a pattern here. We see this report, we see FHI's reports, which are not published until after the government has made a decision. We see the famous line of opening that the government obviously has, but that we don't know about. Information needs to be shared more and more. Now the whole opposition says that, and then the question is, does it impress the government? Will we see change and more openness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e280	That a report received by the ministry is not published until after – I think it was seven working days, or three to four working days, that it should be normal: it's not normal, it's abnormal, because it's fast. We're busy with openness. This government is one of the most open about decisions. But the opposition must also decide: is it the government that is going to take the decisions, as the Storting itself has adopted through the various laws, or is it the Storing that is going to take the decisions? It is now that the division of responsibilities is such that the government makes the decisions, and then it is Storting's job to check whether the government has done the job well enough. The representative Lysbakken sketches is one way to do it where Stortinget makes decisions, and then they have to control their own decisions afterwards. We want dialogue, we want debate on the different ways forward, and we have had that on a continuous basis. Tomorrow, the government will present the roadmap, the way we can open up society – hopefully – if we are able to carry out the disease prevention measures in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e292	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e297	My main question is to the Minister for Climate and Environment: The progress party is busy off the ice edge because we want to secure thousands of jobs in the oil industry. We will lay the foundation for future well-being, and we will create new profitable businesses. When the government presented proposals for a management plan and for the definition of a new ice-cream zone, the Left celebrates what is stated to be their impact in order to reduce the potential for profitable oil and gas production in the north. The Council of State itself said at the press conference to the government, on the question of how far south is at the edge of the ice, that it goes 134 km south of it at most and about. 49 km further south at Bjørn Island. In 2011, the size adopted a definition of the ice edge on the basis of proposals from the Government. Compared with this, the question is what today's government proposal looks like. In order to find out, for example, what the Minister of Oil and Energy will answer when the Department asks questions about it: This is the tip of the ice, in other words, the government's proposal, lies staggering north and staggering south of the ice edge, as presented in the Report. St. 10 for 2010–2011. The question is, therefore, very simple: can the Council confirm what the Minister for Oil and Energy says, that the new government definition makes it possible to go further north than the sona did with the background of the 2011 decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e310	Thank you for the question. It's an important question because iskantsona is important as a natural area. This is a very vulnerable area all the way north, where we find polar bears hunting for seals, plankton, algae and fish. In short, if you had an oil spill up here, it would be dramatic for very vulnerable ecosystems and species that are also very vulnerable. So it's important that not only does one clearly define which is equal to each point of ice, but also what that means. What the government has now submitted is to do both. We say clearly where we delineate the icebergs, and we say that that means that there should be no petroleum activity north of it. In that process, there are several things that are important to me. The only thing is that one clearly fixes an ice-cream zone and what it means. The second is that she's moving south. Then, as Jon Georg Dale does here, one can compare to different definitions that you've had over time. If a comparison is made with the 2011 limit, the limit we have now proposed will go, together 16 000 km 2 further south, by the city north and by the city south, but in some a good part further south. If one compares to the 2015 limit with the government in which the representative Dale himself put in, this limit is 56 000 km 2 further south and, as he also pointed out correctly, 134 km further south. And then you can ask yourself what all of this means. The most important are the following: North of the border that Jon Georg Dale wants to compare with, it would have been allocated oil licences by oil and energy ministers from the Progress Party. If it's the current limit, then it doesn't have to be a limit, and I'm a little uncertain as to why it's interesting to compare it to this one. And the important thing is that we're now going to make a clear definition, and we're going to be clear about what that means. The reason why the government does this is because we want to base the precautionary principle, weigh environmental values more strongly and take care of the vulnerable area that is actually the ice-cream zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e329	I am pleased that the Council of State confirms, when he has to speak the truth in Stortinget, that parts of the new proposed limit go north of what she has done since she became active after a decision in the Stortinget in 2011. It's clarifying, and it's good for the oil industry's possibilities to continue to evolve in the north. But the Council of States is talking about a 2015 limit that no one at any time refers to in that message itself, and that is because the 2011 decisions gave no obstacles to opening up defensive oil activity north of the defined edge. That's what the government is proposing to do. So it's only when a user uses the speech points from the department, and not when writing a groceries message, that 2015 is a relevant year of comparison. So the question is, why? And what's new that actually means that a now thinks it's the basis for setting an absolute limit, when we've had the successful result of the limit we've been managing since 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e334	There's been a lot of new stuff since 2011. For example, we have gained much more knowledge of how vulnerable this area actually is, how vulnerable the different populations of seabirds are, how the ice moves, etc. All of this is done well for by the Professional Forum. What's new about the government that's now presented in the big news is, first of all, that one clearly sets a limit. What's also new is that a limit of 15 pst. Ice frequency. You've never done that before. Before, she's got 30 pst. Ice frequency, both in 2011 and 2015. What that means is that there's now less risk that there'll be ice south of the ice-cream definition than there's ever been. What's happened is that the ice has moved northwards. At the same time, we draw the limit of petroleum activity southward. That's what I think is good for the environment. I understand that the Progress Party has a slightly different political approach to this, and that's quite fine, but at least that's how the government's proposal is to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e341	It opens for follow-up questions – first Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e346	I think it is useful that, in answer to Jon Georg Dale's good question, we have been told that the previous boundary Stortinget decided is the 2011 limit, and in relation to it, the new boundary goes a little south and a little north of it – a very small change. It is 15 pst., but ‘fifteen is the new thirty’ – in a way – because the conditions in the ice have changed. So for all practical purposes, there is little difference, which the Council of State has really now clarified. That leads me to another question. All marine research environments, environmental research environments have said that one should stop talking about ‘ice edge’, but rather talk about ‘ice edge’, and that an ice edge zone is a relationship that extends both north and south of the old term ‘ice edge’. So the government has fallen down to using the word "iskant zone," which I think is wise, but actually defines the ice edge zone as if it were the old ice edge. It confuses me a little bit. Why, then, if you first use the word "ice edge zone", you didn't apply the implicit definition of what an ice edge zone is, but actually ended up dealing with what you used to call an ice edge?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e353	I agree that it makes sense to use the word ‘ice zone’. I'm trying to make it as consistent as I can, and that's also what the government is doing in the big news, for the simple reason that it's not that the ice edge is a certain place, he's moving a lot over the year and has done it over the decades. So the question is, how should a define this in the Storing Message, all the time the ice edge moves a lot? There is the discussion in the Professional Forum, which is in a way a basis for this, in itself our good when it comes to what measurement data you are going to use, etc., and all that we're basing on. Then there was a discrepancy at one point in the Professional Forum, and it was if one were to draw the limit of 0.5 pst. Ice frequency in April or 30 pst. Ice frequency in April. Then the government had to make a choice. We have gone through it thoroughly, the professional basis, had good political discussions, and we have chosen to draw the limit of 15 pst. If the Labour Party disagrees with it, it will be an interesting landfill treatment. So far, the Labour Party hasn't given any indication what they think, but I hope I can come now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e360	Espen Barth Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e365	It will definitely come, and we look forward to good consultations, good debates and a good process in this incredibly important matter, which is not only about oil, but also all the other industries that will work together in this very rich, valuable and also vulnerable area. So we'll have many opportunities to discuss that. My focus today has been on how to buy on the one hand the very good argument of the research community that it is no longer a defined edge of ice, but an ice-cream zone that extends northwards and southwards from the old edge of ice, but still in practice ends almost exactly where we ended when we used the word ‘iskant’, which means something other than the ‘iskant zone’, according to all the environments that have argued for the use of ‘iskant zone’ as a concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e372	First of all, we use the ‘ice zone’ as a wrap. Secondly, we're going to define where that SVO is going to be, and not least what he's going to mean. Both parts are so important, but I have to admit that I found that one of the most important things is what he should mean. Because it is clear that it is fully possible to define an SVO in a different way than how an allowable petroleum activity. I think it is important that in this area there must be a strong protection against petroleum activity. And there's one of the things that's perhaps the most new in this message, that the government writes as clearly as we do, that here goes the limit to it. No comma, no comma, this is the way it is. That's the crucial question, I mean. So, as I said, it's our disagreement in Professional Forums about where to draw that limit of ice frequency, and when there's disagreement on the professional basis, the government has to make a choice. We've made a choice and pulled it to 15 pst. Ice frequency. In some cases, a larger part of the iceberg zone provides stronger protection than ever before, as the ice rises northwards at the same time as the border goes south, compared to both the 2011 definition and the 2015 definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e380	Terje Halleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e385	If there is any consolation, it is not just the Council of States that is struggling to see the difference between the 2011 border and today's government proposal. So are we going to do the other ones. In my question to the Council of State, I will avoid using my own arguments and rather use the government's own. In the management plan for the Barents Sea and the icy edge zone, the Ministry writes on page 29 as follows: ‘The icy edge zone is very dynamic and moves during the year from the areas of Bjørnøya in the south of the spring to the north of Spitsbergen in the early autumn.’» What is the professional basis for preventing oil production by setting an absolute limit, when the government itself says that the ice edge zone is very dynamic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e397	The professional reason for this is that a fixed oil installation is not something that can move up and down month by month. Then you have to make some choices for each limit. At the same time, it is quite right that the ice edge zone moves upwards and downwards, and thus has one in addition to the fixed limit for which petroleum activity is intended, also states in the management plan that in any case, test drilling up to 50 km is not permitted from where the ice is actually available at any given time. So if the ice was actually going to go south for that limit -- something that's historically 15 pst. in April - in any case, no lead activity would be allowed there. That's the good professional foundation for, and there's also good professional foundation for a fixed limit, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e402	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e407	Ice cap, polarlomvi, alking and theist, ring and other seals, polar bear, nard whale, white whale and Greenland whale, polar cod and soldering, antipodes, diatoms from genera such as Nitzschia and Navicula, crustaceans and zooplankton such as Parathemisto libellula, crayfish such as Calanus glacialis: all these are related to the ice cap zone. Our sea is already under pressure from many sides, and we are facing massive extinction of species on the globe. Nevertheless, the government has not chosen to follow the environmental advice to move the delimitation of the ice zone further south, even though the ice zone is where the sea is flourishing. Which of these species I listed is it the Minister for Climate and Environment thinks we're doing fine without?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e414	So there's no answer, and that's why the government has just presented an ice-cream definition that's the strictest thing in the world, protecting larger parts of the ice-cream than anything else, going from 30 pst. Ice frequency to 15 pst. ice frequency, which will ensure that a larger area is exempted from petroleum activity, including the open area. That's the answer to that. It is also true that not only is there an important issue in the management plan of the species covered by the representative, there have also been many other measures taken by the government. For example, we are now expanding the drilling time limits outside the Troms and Finnmark coastal zone to 100 km, an important measure, among others. for the polar lomvi, which the representative mentions, which we now have a greater awareness of moving further from country to country for periods of the year than one had previously believed. Thus, the type of action is also important for those species.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e421	Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e426	The ice zone is among the marine areas in the world that are already most threatened by climate change. Here is a plentiful natural diversity that is particularly vulnerable, including to oil and gas activities. It's very nice – we believe, of course – that the ice-cream zone and its delimitation have now moved further south. However, this is a matter of narrow industrial interests for an individual industry up against broad Community interests and other industrial interests, such as: all the industries that have lived for many decades and generations, many hundreds of years, of life in the sea. In the past, we had something called the precautionary principle. I find it worrying that it is no longer being followed in Norway. Is it by chance that the ice edge zone is now bounded to lie just north of the northernmost of the oil blocks already allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e433	When the government chose to draw the boundary at 15 pst. Ice frequency, was based on various advice received. It's based on holistic considerations, and it means that we're now getting a significantly stronger protection for the entire ice-cream zone. Then she will vary – north and south, etc. – based on where one is, but we mean in sum that it's a good limit. I would also like to say that when there are many of these kinds of questions about how much more one should focus on the environment and give nature an even stronger protection, it may be that I and the representative Une Aina Bastholm could have become some of the more important things about the environment. So the challenge is that we have nine representatives in this room together, and we have to work a little bit to get all 85 of us to get a multiple. I'm glad that we now – hopefully – get to a plural number to move the icebergs further south, protect a larger part of that area and give a stronger protection to all species mentioned by the representative in his first follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e440	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e445	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. In its proposal for a long-term defence plan, the government writes: ‘Norway is facing a new security policy situation today and in the years ahead. Not since the end of the Cold War, Norway and our allies have faced such an extent of simultaneous security challenges — against the state, society and the individual.’ After reading the long-term plan presented, you can ask yourself if the government believes in what you have written. In detail, the government writes about how the security policy situation in our neighbourhood has greatly worsened since the previous long-term plan was presented in 2016. But what is the answer? Well, the answer is to postpone the completely basic necessary capacity increase in the Defense to after 2024. With the government's plan, the defense will be seen at a crash over the next four years. What is to be done is either all agreed upon or to be decided after 2024. Suggested promises in the first four-year period are really long, far from what was his defence chief's least ambitious alternative to the defence minister - option D, which would hardly cover the costs of phase-in the current plan. As the Center Party sees it, the plan must either be sent back to the government with the reluctance to come up with a plan for the first four-year period that is ambitious and meets the challenges we have, or – the second option – that the Storting takes control and responsibility and fills the plan with content that meets today's security challenges, which we see the government cannot. How can the Minister defend the delivery of a long-term plan to the Stortinget that does not respond in any way to the tragedy that Norway has today, which we are facing here and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e462	I registered two questions. The first was if I believed in what we had written in the plan. The answer to that is yes. The second is a question that is either based on a misinterpretation, a misreading, of what it says, or that you don't want to see the development of defence in the context. We have put forward a plan that has an operational part of eight years. I have also previously been in discussion with the representative about this, where the representative has claimed that nothing happens in the first four years, because what happens in the first four years has already been adopted. That's a little bit of the point of providing an operational part of eight years, that's for better coherence. It takes time to build defense, and for the first four years we phase in P8, we complete the phase-in of F-35, we build base defense, we further develop land power in Finnmark, we further develop the logistics ship KNM ‘Maud’, which gives maritime defence better capabilities, we further develop the E-service, and we further develop cyber defence. So it's a red thread in the development of the defence that we're working on, and the long-term plan we've presented to the Stortinget now is a direct continuation of the initiative we started with when we came into government in 2013, which we also made concrete in the long-term plan in question from 2016. So when the representative does not find a commitment that is appropriate to the development of security policy we are now seeing – well, it must depend on the ability or willingness to read the plan we have presented. I look forward to good negotiations in the Grand Duchy on the plan we have put forward. But to snap your eyes again and say that nothing happens in the first four years – no, there's a little too much anxiety that I can take it constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e471	Perhaps the Minister of Defence should also right that I didn't say anything is happening, but there is no real increase in capacity. There are no ambitions for the first four-year period. As the head of defence said in the Fagmilitary Council, the level of ambition in the long-term plan is a political choice. He has presented four options, and he has clearly stated what is needed to defend the country on a proper level. And then it's up to the politicians to choose the level of preparedness and defence. The government's proposal is as far away from its Defense Manager's recommended option A as possible. If his or her least ambitious alternative, write the Defence Manager: ‘Restricted ability to defend the entire country’. With the government's plan, the level of defence will be well below that level again over the next four years. How can one read this in any other way than that the government has taken a political choice that the Norwegian defence should have under ‘limited’ the ability to defend the country in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e480	Firstly, we have achieved an important thing with the defence policy debate we have had in recent years, and that is that we have made a clear distinction between the responsibility of the defence manager and political responsibility. It is a political responsibility to adopt the defence we are going to have, the defence development we are going to have, how we are going to defend our country. It's an important recognition that we in this room say that there are political decisions that apply. Then we let go of the flakes that it wasn't dangerous a few years ago, so we didn't have to build a defense then. Everyone has now recognised that further development of the defence is important. We agree on the security situation. There's two important things about the plan and the situation we're in now. One is that the distinction between State security and social security is much more unclear now than it was before. That is why we are also clear in the plan that we are working in parallel with the social security message. We also see civil protection in the context of what kind of development we're going to have of Defense. We see the wider picture, and that is why we are building a good defence with the plan we have now put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e489	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e494	Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen accuses the Center Party of being reluctant when we read the long-term plan. It's not malicious, it's defensive. For one of the most important tasks of the Storing and Government is to defend our country and also be willing to use resources on it. What's amazing, when we read the long-term plan, is that Norway should be perhaps the most unique country in the world, by having a modern army without a helicopter. There are no other modern armies in the world that don't have helicopters. Frank Bakke-Jensen and Right think it's a good idea for this long-range country that we should have the helicopters as far as possible away from our Army, in South Norway, and not use resources to equip our army, which is in a more assertive security policy situation than in the long run, with the necessary capabilities. Why won't Right and Frank Bakke-Jensen follow up on Stortinget's clear decision of 29 November 2017 that the Norwegian army should have helicopters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e499	It's a new example of Central Party wretchedness if that's how they read the plan that's now presented. The defense's Bell 412 helicopters have been used for a while for the defense. They have had a mission for justice, where they have been on standby for the police, and they have been on a temporary mission for health – with that capacity. Now we've made sure that the police get a dedicated civil capacity, i.e. that we release Bell 412 to the Defense. We're making sure there's civil capacity in East Finland, so we can free Bell 412 to the Defense. We take the decision on the roll-out decision that the special forces should have a counter-terrorism capacity using Bell 412 in earnest. That's why we're moving some of the machines down. At the same time: With the changes we have made and the rescue base with rescue helicopters we have decided to establish in Troms, we also get dedicated helicopter capacity with Bell 412 to the Army. There are three machines left in Inner Troms that can be used, as well as the residual capacity of the machines being moved to Back can also be used for the Army. I need to know that we also have forces at Rena, Telemark battalion, who also use helicopters sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e506	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e511	Sometimes I wonder what advisers Right and Defence Minister Frank Bakke-Jensen is listening to. I think it has to be more on communications consultants and communication strategists than those who wear the uniform, who are supposed to defend our country, and who are responsible for having a well-functioning army – when he spends the time talking away that the government doesn't bet on helicopter capacity for the Army. Then there's another thing that's amazing in this plan. The size had a big discussion about tank capacity, that we should have a modern tank capacity, when we dealt with the land traffic and the land power proposition. The size was clearly decided to have a modern tank capacity. And the safety assessment contained in the long-term plan is crystal clear. It says: ‘Not since the end of the Cold War, Norway and our allies have faced such an extent of simultaneous security challenges’. Why not then prioritize the Right, Government and Government to follow up the Storting decision that we should have a modern tank capacity in the Norwegian army?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e523	My top professional military adviser is the head of defense, Haakon Bruun-Hanssen. He's got a uniform. I listen carefully to him. If the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, had listened to the Chief of Defense and read it to the Chief of Defence, among others. said in the trade-military council that he would introduce a dedicated troop transport capacity on the helicopter to the Army when he introduces a lighter mechanized brigade in the south, he would see that there is no difference between our timing and the timing of the defense chief. In the case of tanks, we have decided to introduce it from 2025. We've spent the time since we got into government, repairing the materials that were there, filling up the spare parts warehouses, so that what we have can roll. Then we have made a decision that we should introduce a new tank capacity from 2025. It's also a decision that's been followed up here in Stortinget. We have started that process, but it is a large investment programme, which includes both the choice of capacity and repurchase agreements and cooperation agreements with other countries. We're serious about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e532	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e537	The new long-term plan has been given a fancy title: Willing to be prepared – ability to defend. It's often the less you deliver, the neater the title you put on the product; it's ABC in marketing. Never before has a long-term plan been so contrasted with the head of defence – as the Minister of Defence believes is his closest adviser, or claims it, at least – is necessary to defend Norway. Absolutely all areas, the Chief of Defense believes, require more strengthening. I'm just going to hand over the Chief of Defense's reinforcement to the Minister of Defense so he can read what it says. It is not a single point that the Minister of Defence is following up – not a single point. But the description of the threat picture is exactly the same. So the question is, does the Minister of Defense think that the head of defence is exaggerating his acquisition, or does the Minister of Defence think that the head of defence doesn't need what he claims he needs? It's interesting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e549	In the presentation of the long-term plan, also with the representative Tybring-Gjedde present, I have been committed to explaining that the chief of defence's professional military council extends to 2040. That is, the operational part of the long-term plan we have presented extends to 2028. It's not like the head of defense says that here's my option D, C, B or A, it's supposed to be over in 2024 – as it seems like Tybring-Gjedde's opinion is the reality. It's not like I'm not listening to the head of defense either. The head of defense received one of the most obvious and freest mandates that had been delivered for a long-term plan, according to the head of defence himself, because he got a bottom line, and then he was told to provide a trade-military advice that extends in time – synchronized with the fact that we had the Swedish Defence Research Institute working both on the security situation we had and how we had developed the defense so far. I think that's a very good advice, and I would like to encourage the representative Tybring-Gjedde to read the defence manager's comment on that long-term plan, where it's not like he's looking very dark at it. He has some points he is critical of, but at the same time he supports the plan in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e558	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e563	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The edge of the ice, or the edge of the ice, is what we call a particularly valuable and vulnerable area. Here, special conditions are created to make plankton and algae bloom. This is again food for fish, which is again food for the large marine mammals. Fish and birds come here to graze, and it is a crucial ecosystem that provides life in the Barents Sea – and life to the fish we eat. The ice edge zone is a physical zone that moves with the ice throughout the year. It is measurable, and it is something that the scientific community researches can define, as the Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute have done. The question of where the ice is going is environmental science. It's not politics. It's like the question of gravity or the fact that the earth is round. It's science. It's been a few years since there was a political question about whether the earth was round or not. My question to the Council of State is then: Why has the government not listened to the relevant professional environments and set the limit for the ice edge zone where it actually goes, but instead made itself an entirely separate limit for where it goes? Governments also have to respond to other physical and natural boundaries that the government wants to define itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e574	It's tempting to answer yes to that, but it's probably not quite like that. It's simply not that different physical phenomena always coincide with what's a so-called SVO, that's a very valuable area. That is what has been discussed here – not where the physical isna at all times is; we always have control over that. We have ice map, and it's just going in and out. No one disagrees in it, nor does the government. This has been the case for many years in various governments, and for which there is also disagreement in the Professional Forum, each has to draw the line of the so-called SVO. There it was, as I also said in the previous answer, that the Professional Forum had two different views about it. One sight was that one should draw the limit at 0.5 pst. Ice frequency, while the second view was that one should draw the limit at 30 pst. Ice frequency. An ice frequency of 30 pst. is the limit you've been set until now. There was the limit SV used in government when they defined the iceberg sona. We've chosen 15 pst. It's not because we have a different view than naturalists on where there's ice at any time, because we know that. But when the ice moves as much as it does, over many decades, a few choices have to be made about where one draws a limit. petroleum activity. That limit now goes further south than it has ever been. It goes significantly further south than the 2015 limit, it goes further south than the 2011 limit, and it provides a better protection of the ice edge son as a natural phenomenon, which I fully agree with the representative Haltbrecken that it is unlikely important to take care of. That's the answer, and then you'll see how the Storting deals with this. It is a big message that has been delivered. I hope it's possible to collect a multiple here, not only because a move south to give a safe protection, but also because one is very clear about what it means. It has been a problem in history that it has been unclear whether it means that one can have petroleum activity north of the border or not. Now there is no doubt that according to what the government has proposed. I hope that the Storting is united in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e585	I record that the Council of State is trying to make where we have vulnerable and valuable areas or not, a political issue. I have to remind the Council of State that it is also a question for environmental science to define what is vulnerable and valuable. The Polar Institute wrote in a chronicle in February this year: «Scientific knowledge of the physical and biological processes in the ice edge zone suggests that the southern extent of the ice edge zone should be 0.5 per cent ice frequency for maximum ice spread.» They repeated this later, in April this year. They also provide environmental reasons why the ice-cream zone goes right where it goes. Therefore, it is surprising that the government in the management plan makes a proposal for a 15 pst. limit. I want to ask the Council of State to provide the environmental reasons he has for why we draw the limit at 15 pst. instead of another number.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e597	My environmental reason for dragging the 15 pst limit. is that there is a stronger emphasis on the environment than today. It provides protection from petroleum activity in a greater proportion of the ice-cream zone than at present. There are many of the vulnerable species that provide greater protection than they are today. I think that's a good environmental foundation, and that's a clear improvement. I have to admit that I am a little surprised that more people here, especially the representative from SV, are so critical of it. There is, of course, progress for the environment in relation to both the 2011 limit, the 2015 limit and not least the plan that the red-green government presented to the Stortinget in 2013, one of which said that yes, we have an ice border, and yes, we can operate with petroleum activity north of her. It did not make any sense, and that is one of the reasons why this has been such a big political debate, and that there has been so much uncertainty about that issue. Now we land a certainty about this, we weigh the environment heavier, and we take more foreview. It is quite okay to think that one should have taken even more foreview and gone further south, but I think this is a progress for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e604	It opens for follow-up questions – Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e609	I record that the Council of State is unable to provide environmental reasons for drawing the ice edge limit of 15 pst. It is permissible to say that more than me was somewhat surprised that the government was able to state that since 2015 they have established an ice limit that Stortinget would not accept when this proposal was submitted in 2015. Then there was a clear message from Stortinget that the message, including the so-called update of the ice edge, was not accepted, and that the government had to do the job again. The message was not even attached to the protocol; it was sent back to the government. The public debate at the time was about the fact that the new proposal on ice was not technically justified. It was motivated by giving the oil industry access to new areas. What basis does the government believe it has had to despite the Storting's clear message when, since 2015, it has asked the administration to govern after an ice limit that the Stortinge refused to accept? And is the other decision where the government has ignored the Stortinge's clear decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e618	The representative has also asked me a written question about this. I think the answer should be on the way about now, but I can take the short version: In 2011, a case was brought before the Storting where one defined an ice edge limit and said that one should not have petroleum activity there. In 2013, the same government, the red-green government, sent a message to the Stortinget where they said yes, that limit is still there, but one can have petroleum activity in the whole area. It created a significant insecurity, to say it very carefully. Later, a big message was submitted in 2015, where one stayed at the same ice frequency, but in the meantime the ice had gone northward, and then the border also went northwards. In any case, what has happened in the meantime is that licences have been granted to oil companies north of the 2011 border. It means one of two things: either it doesn't apply, or it never has been a limit. It is not possible to think of a third option. I think whatever we're going to be happy that we're now getting a very clear limit. There's no doubt about where she's going. There shall be no petroleum activity north of it and it shall be south of both the 2011 and 2015 limits. I think it's a progress for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e629	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e634	On 8 May we shall celebrate the 75th anniversary of the release of Norway, and we shall honor our veterans, 100,000 Norwegian women and men who have participated in operations in 40 different countries. As weapon systems are becoming increasingly advanced, a good defense depends entirely on us taking care of our personnel, those who work for the Defense. We have now received a long-term plan, and there have been several questions in the Chamber where the Minister of Defence has said that there has been misreading and misreading of the plan. The fact is, for the first time since we started with long-term planning in 1990, we have received an eight-year plan, not a four-year plan. That says the Minister of Defense is because he wants to think in the long term. But it can't be that hard to hire more people now. According to the defense plan we've been given, 500 are to be hired for the next four-year period, 2,200 are coming later. The Chief of Defense is very clear in his sentence. He says that the volume of personnel is too low, and that the operational ability to solve the defence tasks collectively is less good. Why does the Minister of Defence really need eight years to hire about 3,000 extras in the Defence Department? Why can't we start that job now? There's no need for planning for that. What is needed is for the Minister of Defence to have a say in this government. The fact that he has presented this eight-year plan clearly shows that he has to push the targets rather than act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e644	In his comment on the long-term plan, the head of defence has a great deal of concern. It is that a plan is adopted in the Storting that is not in balance in personnel, capacity and financial terms. We have presented a plan that we believe is in balance with personnel, capacity and economics. Why can't the Minister of Defense hire 3,000 now? That's a reason why we're using long-term planning. We're phased in new capacities. We have implemented major personnel reforms in the Defence still in progress. We're putting forward a reservation system where we use the 10,000 reserves we have to a much greater extent, in addition to the 40,000 we have in Homeland. We have a education reform that has just been introduced, where the first ones leave the War School for next year. There's a reason why we're trying to do this on a planned basis. Then I register that there is a debate between the head of defence and employee organisations whether there is enough staff, what we have presented here. We mean it is. But there is also a debate about wanting to draw things closer. It will color the human image differently. We believe that we have presented a long-term plan that balances personnel, capacity and finances. I also record that the head of defence agrees with me that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e653	We're all concerned that it has to be balanced. That's why we need more money for the Defense if we're going to hire more people. One of the bravest things to do as a politician is to promise something on behalf of those who come after. It reminds me sometimes of the climate debate we have – when we are unable to achieve any goals on our guard, we are making even more ambitious goals for the future. There's no need for long planning to hire more people in the Defense Department. What's needed is more money on the state budget for 2021. Will the Minister of Defense be in favour of us demanding, more money here in Stortinget, to hire more people in the 2021 Defense Department? It's clearly in line with what the head of defense says, and it will lead to better operational capability now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e660	This is also a misinterpretation. When we've submitted an operational plan of eight years, it's not about leaving anything to anyone else. We do not intend to let anyone else manage the Ministry of Defence in the years to come. We have plans for the Right and this government to do that. I have no plans to stand in an oral Question Time and negotiate the long-term plan. I have great respect for the fact that we have now handed it over to Stortinget. It's in the committee, and we're going to work closely with the committee on the issues that come up, on the numbers that you have there. But, as I said, we're making big changes to the Defense now. We have moved around 600 posts from administrative posts to operational posts to increase operational performance. We're extending protection for a good part in order to have better skills in battalions. We're pulling the recruiting school out of the battalions to keep the battalions operational on a higher level all the time. We're making major changes to the defense personnel that increase operational capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e669	It opens for follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e674	The size has repeatedly asked for dedicated helicopters to the Army. Governments have said that we don't need dedicated helicopters to the Army. But, as we have also heard here today, the defence minister's chief professional counsellor has said that we need our own dedicated helicopters for the Army. So my question is – since the Council of State has now put forward a proposal for a long-term plan: why haven't you listened to the head of defense regarding helicopter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e679	We have listened to the Chief of Defense, and the Chief of Defense says that dedicated personnel transport helicopters for the Army need him at a later stage when he establishes a light brigade in the East. Then, in order to release the capacity of the defense, we've got justice to stand still with a civilian capacity to the police, so the defense helicopters will not be on that alert. We have asked Health Nord quietly with a civil helicopter capacity, so that the defense will not stand in that readiness in East Finland. That makes us free up capacity. We have decided to establish a rescue helicopter base in Tromsø, which covers the ‘team’ that has been previously identified. All of this means that the defence helicopters are released and given better capacity. The three machines that remain in Inner Troms are dedicated to the Army, to the small missions. But we have to distinguish between the big troop transport capacities and the kind of mission that Bell 412 does, and Bell 412 are the three machines, in Inner Troms, that the Army can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e686	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e691	Now we talk a lot about total preparedness. I'm asking if the dedicated helicopters to the Army, and you've already – to great criticism – moved most of the helicopters that were to be used for that very purpose. Then someone has had to stay because you see that the readiness needs it. So I ask again, what is the State Council Hill-Jensen knows that the defense chief obviously has not known, since he has suggested that we need dedicated helicopters to the Army?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e696	The capacity that Bell 412 stands for, that is, small helicopters that can move a limited number of people out, we are now releasing to the Army in the north – by introducing a civil capacity for Health North. We set up a rescue base with rescue helicopters, and the police in North Norway get civilian capacity, so they don't use Bell 412. Then the Army gets three machines standing there north that they can use for their benefit. Then we moved 15 Bell 412 down to Back to train up, rehearse, a counter-terror capacity with the special forces. It's a requirement that's been there ever since the Gjørv Commission. Then it was discovered that there is something we are missing. It's a national resource. So this is not just for the sewing, which I record in some reading posts in the north. No, this is a national resource to ensure that we are better prepared for terrorist attacks in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e703	Morten Wold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e708	The long-term defence plan is important to all of us, and in this connection it can be pointed out that a number of claims have been made for a long time about the suitability of Evenes as an aircraft base and the consequences of the closure of Andeya. In the context of the presentation of the proposal for a new long-term plan, the issues are being re-updated. The criticisms of Evenes are of the opinion that the economic calculations on which the establishment was based are not correct. Furthermore, reference is made to challenges related, inter alia, to: aeroplane operating surfaces, volume and weather conditions. A broad majority in the Grand Duchy supported the decision to lay down Andy Island as base. After the decision was taken, we have seen challenges related to the establishment of Evenes. Problems have arisen that have resulted in the transfer of a planned hangar and thus higher costs. For the Storting to make the right decisions, we depend on having correct and up-to-date information. My question therefore becomes: Does the Council of State continue to believe that the decision to set up Evenes as an operational battle base has been taken on a proper basis, has a proper cost and time frame as well as previously stated operational benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e716	Yeah, I mean that, actually. The main argument to co-locate on Evenes was that it would be 200 million. kr more expensive to operate two bases per year. Then the security situation has evolved in retrospect so that we have to look with new eyes on base defense. It will significantly increase that difference in costs, as we have to secure Evenes in another way, which we have to secure Ørland in another way now. So the arguments for combining MPA activity and QRA activity on Evenes stand. Then there have been challenges with the placement of the hangar. This is the kind of challenge faced by large projects, but no information has been obtained to suggest that the problems are so great that the decision to co-locate on Evenes should be reconsidered. Also, the concept selection investigation that we were made suggests that the plans that were put into place, with what you know, are good and within what is expected of that kind of project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e723	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e728	In recent years, around 800 lambs and sheep have been killed on the grazing of predators, mainly wolves, in the north-east valley. The north-eastern valley is known as a grazing priority area. Now the year's license hunt is about to end. The status today of the counties Hedmark, Oslo, Akershus and Eastfold, where it is to be common twelve animals, is that only half of the wolves are killed. In Oppland hunters have shot two of a quota of five wolves. A total of 17 wolves have been authorised outside the wolf zone in these areas. The state's natural supervision admits that it will be difficult to fill the quota when the snow disappears and the hunters can no longer take advantage of track snow. I think we all get that. There is something raging wrong with the wolf management and predatory policy when one is unable to get within the population defined by the Storting. In the year that passed, six young people were registered in Helnorse territory, against a target of three. When the wolf population in the wolf zone is so dense, there are several wolves outside, as in pasture-prioritised areas. We all see what this means. We are facing a summer of great loss of grazing animals as a result of a failed predatory policy, animals that will suffer great suffering as a result of the herrings of wolves and predators, and farmers who will experience the livelihood threatened and, not least, suffer great mental stress when it comes to sanking animals. Now when we go into a summer where half of the wolves that should have been taken out are not taken out, you don't have to be clear-sighted to see what this summer is like. Has the Council of State, Rotevatn, at all, considered the issue? And in that case, what is the plan and response of the Council of State to the farmers who are now facing this disaster? Does the Council of State feel any discomfort in this situation, or is this in line with what the Council of State thinks it should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e739	I get so many questions and issues about predators in Stortinget, including two yesterday, that I can assure the representative that I have had time to think through the problem up to several times. There's reason to say first of all that for the individual gardener who experiences loss of grazing animals, it's domestic or sheep, for predators, it's obviously hard, and I have the greatest sympathy and understanding that it's imperative. At the same time it is worth noting the following: The wallpaper of sheep to wolf last year was the lowest in ten years. All in all, we have halved the loss of sheep to predators because the Senter Party was responsible for the policy of the red-green government, and there is more sheep on pasture than it was before – included in the wolf'sona. This does not mean that the individual loss situation of a garden user is not serious. It always is, but in general I think we can manage this in a good way that takes care of the demanding double care that Stortinget wants us to have, both predators in Norway and grazing animals. In the case of a specific year-on-year hunt, there is reason to say that there is no guarantee that a given field will be allowed to fall into a licence case. This can often be demanding work. But it's not that you haven't managed to trap as much as the quota is, that just isn't possible. This could also mean that the quota is larger than the number of wolves that actually behave in the areas in question. It could also be a reason. But at least it's so that the last three weeks are shot three wolves. By 2020 there are so far twelve dead wolves registered in Norway. In the same period in 2019, seven were registered. It is also true that from the beginning of the license fall in winter to now, 14 dead wolves have been registered. 12 of them are shot under license, 14 are shot within the wolf's son, 8 are shot outside the wolf's son. So I'm not worried that we're not going to be able to score, but of course we can't guarantee that there's actually a wolf where a believe there is a wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e750	My question was about the situation in grazing priority areas. But yesterday I got a plug from 19 municipalities in the wolf zone, a plug that was a clear call for action, which describes quite well what it is like to sit at the other end of the government's wolf policy. The appeal has clear demands that the 2016 wolf settlement be followed up. The list of decisions in this area which are not followed up or which end up in a bureaucratic mill is beginning to be long, but in order to select one theme: In 2016, Stortinget adopted an independent investigation into the impact of the wolf population within the wolf zone. In good Norwegian: How is life in the son? I can't see that this has been followed up. Instead, the government has been stuck in a track of interpretation and practice that increases the conflict line in the predatory animal case every year, leading to an increasing number of wolves challenging grazing animals, district industries and living in increasingly predatory areas. The question is, when will the Council of State take these 19 municipalities seriously and start working on identifying what it actually is like for the people who are going to live in the zone and who have to live with government policies and an ever-growing wolf population?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e757	I don't think there's a country in the world that has a larger population than Norway has a wolf population in Norway. We spend a lot of our resources on this -- we continuously monitor and have a lot of knowledge, in fact, to the extent that the Central Party in the Storting yesterday complains that we spend too much money on this. It is important that we have an overview, among other things. in order to have a good dialogue with those involved, and those who experience predators closely on the body. Then I understand that for those who drive the garden and have sheep grazing within the wolf's son as the Stortinget has decided, it is demanding. For what Stortinget has said is that we should have a different policy within and outside the wolf's son. That means there's a lower threshold to trap wolves outside and higher inside. This also means that many of the gardeners had to convert to e.g. to use more inward leggings. Of course, it is also supported. But in sum, there's more sheep grazing in Norway now than it was before. There's also more sheep on the graze than there was before inside the wolf's son. What I'm thinking is, as the National Audit Office has also said clearly, that with the policy that the government is pursuing, we are able to carry out what the Stortinget has ordered, and the two objectives we have in the field of predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e766	It opens for follow-up questions – first Emilie Enger Mehl.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e771	The wolf that was moved by helicopter last autumn has now established itself with a husband in Deisjørviret, and it is partly located outside the wolf zone, in Stor-Elvdal and Rendalen municipalities. It's in grazing priority areas, where it shouldn't be wolves, and where there's already a high pressure from wolves. If the wolf stays there, it will be able to be shot on a license hunt outside the wolf zone if it is outside the wolf zone during the hunt, unless it is totally satisfied by the department. And if it's totally satisfied in Deisjørviret, it will mean an expansion of the wolf zone that is in practice contrary to the predatory game settlement. If necessary, consideration should be given to removing the wolf if it is to be completely peaceful. The question is: can the Council of State guarantee that the wolf will not receive a special protection and a rescue in the Deisjørreviret, which will in practice mean an extension of the wolf zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e778	First of all, there's reason to be glad that we've now got a genetically important individual into Norway, who's been resting around for a while, but now has settled down with a partner. It's positive, for the reason that it helps to follow up the 2011 Storting Robbery Agreement, when we were asked to just look at genetically important individuals because there's so much inbreeding in the Norwegian wolf tribe. I also mean that those who think we should have had fewer wolves, should actually be too, because the more inbred the tribe is, the more individuals need one in order to have a viable tribe. So I really don't fully understand this resistance to it -- and it's also following up the predatory settlement. When it comes to the question of how the wolf has now settled and where it is, the answer is that we don't know exactly what they're benefiting from, whether it's inside, outside, partly inside or partly outside the wolf's son. That is of course an important question, and we will have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e785	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e790	It is not only wolf in grazing priority areas that is a major challenge, but also populations of yorks and bears in grazing priority areas, among others. in Trøndelag – in Namskogan, Grong, Tidal, Meråker, Verdal, Levanger, so to speak, the whole northern part of Trøndelag actually. And the government says seawater that in pasture-priority areas grazing animals should have a advantage. The problem is that it doesn't happen. It is then up to individuals, businesses and communities to take up the burden of today’s predatory policy, and they feel that they are being given a good talk. In parts of the Trøndelag, farmers now get simply grazed in this season – in pasture-prioritised areas! This is contrary to what the Great One has said. The rapporteur in Grong has addressed the department and received a reply from the department that work is being done along different tracks to ensure livestock management, and that the department will contact the rapporteurs well in advance of the grazing season. Now the grazing season starts these days, so what contact has the ministry made, and what tracks will they pursue in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e800	Even if last year we had historically low losses of grazing animals to predators and also lower losses to bears than before, it is right, as the representative Arnstad says, that especially in Trøndelag, we have had a situation that has been very demanding for many. We have also debated that a number of times in Stortinget. What has been demanding about this situation are the following: The Storting has decided that we should have 13 year old coal with bear cubs – that is the goal. We're at seven. If we're going to be able to reach the goal set by Stortinget, we have to do a job. That job has to be done by the bear guts – it's the ones that give birth to the bear cubs. This means that there is a relatively high threshold in the current situation to trap traps. It's not excluded, but it's a pretty high threshold to follow up what Size has said. At the same time, we have to manage the situation in Trøndelag in a good way. That's right, we're working along several tracks to get to it. I have nothing new to report about this here now, but I can confirm that we are working on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e807	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e812	So if there's a bear bin, that doesn't mean there's a lot of pasture-priority areas anyway. Then it's the binna that's served, and then grazing priority areas are not as important as the government else uses to say that they are. However, I have to ask the Council of State one more time, because it was his own political adviser who wrote this letter. There the consultant states quite explicitly that the department will contact the rapporteurs in Trøndelag in good time before the grazing season. You're letting sheep out on the graze now. So I just wonder if the department has contacted the rapporteurs. Will the Ministry contact the rapporteurs, and when will this happen in the event?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e819	We would like to have a good dialogue with the speakers to this extent, but also with the gardeners. When it comes to the specific situation the representative refers to in Grong, I think it's been a dialogue with the County Council, where one from the County Council wants one to move the sheep to another area to graze. That's what the gardeners have been against, and then the county has gone away from that trail. As far as I understand, it's a dialogue on how to deal with this situation. I agree that the situation is demanding. It's not that inside has pre-emption rights anyway, and one can never take them out. It may be, but it has to be a concrete assessment as long as we're so far away from the stock target that Stortinget has asked me to make sure we get up to it. It's a tough situation to handle for the administration, but we have to be able to do that. And we have a special look at the situation in Trøndelag – the representative can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e826	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e840	The questionnaire is usually published electronically in the section, although there are currently no changes to the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e848	‘The decision decided on 19 March to ask the government to facilitate, if necessary, the entry into the ownership of particularly important Norwegian enterprises in order to ensure national ownership. On questions from the undersigned, the Council of State has stated that the Government will not rule out the possibility of this happening and that it may apply to companies of central importance to society and how current activities are necessary in order to avoid social damage. Which specific companies and sectors do the Councils of State regard as relevant to state ownership?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e861	The government has recently submitted the ownership message, which reviews our ownership policy. It follows from this notification that the State will have holdings in companies only when it is the best solution to meet the different needs of the State. As a general rule, private owners are better placed to engage in and create new business, while the country facilitates good framework conditions. The government is following the situation of the corona carefully and is constantly assessing what action might be taken to overcome the crisis. As the representative is well-known, the government has presented several crisis packages to business over the past few weeks. These include: establish a cash support scheme, deferral of payments has been granted, and changes have been made to the law on permitting. The background to these things is getting businesses through the crisis we're in. As the representative refers to, I would also not rule out that, in the ultimate sense, state acquisitions of firms in difficulty may also be relevant in order to ensure national ownership. As I have said before, and as it has been referred to, it may apply to companies that are of central social importance, and we think of companies where current activities are necessary to avoid social damage. This will include, inter alia: could be companies which operate activities which are of such importance that a total or partial loss of function would have consequences for the country’s ability to safeguard national security interests as defined in the Security Act. It will also be in situations where regulation, which is the usual measure in this area, is considered insufficient. However, it is too early – and it will not be right – to respond specifically to the sectors and companies that may be involved in state ownership in the current crisis. Assessments made by the country in relation to these issues are likely to be both business-sensitive and potentially exchange-sensitive. But if state ownership becomes current, the government will promote matter to the Storting about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e872	The councils referred to the government's announcement of ownership, but it was presented before the coronary apathy. The corona pandemic has revealed a great vulnerability, both in the Norwegian economy and in strategically important sectors. It has also made important Norwegian enterprises more vulnerable to foreign purchases than before. In the first position adopted by the Finance Committee after the corona pandemic had taken place in Norway, there was a strong emphasis on national ownership of natural resources, important businesses and societal critical functions. The overall committee also stressed the importance of the necessary instruments and that they had to be prepared. How does the Council of State and Government prepare for such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e879	The most important thing for us now is to work for these companies to get through the corona situation. This is why both the government and the big business have been so busy putting these packages in place. At the same time, we follow up on what is happening. We have been clear that it may be relevant to go in and buy up companies if necessary. But besides that, I can't go into the assessments that the government makes in that regard, other than what I've already said, precisely because it could be both business-sensitive and exchange-sensitive, and it could also be inside information. The representative, on the other hand, doesn't have to deal with such restrictions, so maybe the representative himself has some suggestions for companies he thinks should have been publicized in the difficult situation both we and the companies are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e886	I understand that the Council of State is not commenting on individual companies, but what I asked the Council of State questions about now was about how such a situation might be prepared. What has been mentioned by us in the United Kingdom is both the establishment of a state ownership instrument to ensure ownership of strategically important companies and the ability to have an action plan in the area of the specific situation in which they are located, as can be seen from examples in other countries. Clearly, the situation you see today, as a result of both the exchange rate and the share price, makes Norwegian enterprises exposed to foreign purchases. It is very good that we work together for new actions, but it can just make some people think they deserve to enter strategically and secure foreign ownership now. How do you prevent that? How do you prepare that for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e893	The most important thing we do, in addition to getting the companies through this, is that we're just following what's going on out there. We follow up on how it works in Europe related to this, but also in the market here at home. If or when it would be appropriate to go in and buy up a business – either buy in or acquire ownership – we will normally come to the Storting with it, because there will be no government that can do anything. In that case, this will require the approval of the Stortinget. But it will happen normally after a concrete assessment that the government will have made in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e903	‘In the Question Time of 12 February this year, the Prime Minister said that the District Minister has a smaller area as his own constitutional responsibility, but a larger area of coordination. The Prime Minister also said that the government with a district minister is lifting its coordination responsibility because it wants to see the whole thing better in the policy. Following the decision in November 2016 on the closure of Andøya Airport, the Prime Minister announced at hoyre.no ‘extraordinary State intervention’ to take care of the Andey community. What are the status and plans of this extraordinary effort?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e910	The closure of Andøya Air Station has significant consequences for the community up there. That is why the government has already contributed 60 million. kr in exceptional means of conversion, and we have announced a total of 95 million. kr i support. The main contribution of the government is to facilitate the situation, so that there is active local and regional responsibility to work to create new, forward-looking and secure jobs in Andeya. It is an important principle in the conversion work that the municipality itself defines its areas of action. Andøya has already established a migration organisation with its own board of directors and has developed migration plans. I followed this work closely and had, among other things, meeting with representatives of the municipality no later than 29 January. They then presented a series of exciting plans for Andy Island in areas such as aquaculture, tourism, technology and competences. The Government has taken overall responsibility for caring for the Andey community as a result of the closure of the air station. The Ministry of Local Affairs has contributed funds for conversion. At the same time, other departments also have investments, which are probably so important for Andøya. An example of this is the overall property strategy for the areas that are subsequently decommissioned by the Defence at Andøya Air Station. The property strategy has been developed in close dialogue with Andøy Municipality as a planning authority. Another example is NAROM AS, a national centre for all levels of education in space-related training. The aim of that grant is to support the work of NAROM in contributing to the recruitment of Norwegian space activities and creating a greater interest in the real and technology sciences. By 2020 there will be 16.2 million. kr, same as in 2019. Andøya Space Center has established the Andøya Spaceport subsidiary to develop plans for a small satellite launch base on Andøya. In February 2019, the company submitted an application to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries for 1.3 billion dollars. kr in equity to establish such a base. A revised application was received in November 2019. The Ministry then gave feedback on the issue of State aid law in the application. In view of this, the Andøya Space Center has drawn up a revised application received by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries on 1 April and is now in dialogue on the examination of the further application. The matter has a high priority for the government, and we will do what we can to avoid delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e923	The answer is that there's a lot of exciting happening on the Andes. These are many good initiatives. That's good intentions. That's good projects. However, local communities are built through concrete decisions and decisions. Andøya Spaceport, mentioned, national drone centre, aerodrome release, port improvement, possible establishment of a new aviation school, etc., are good projects. And if Andøya gets full bangs on all the balls that are now in the air, it's going to have huge ring-effects, with hundreds of new jobs, but it's not likely that it's going to be like this. But if all the balls land on the ground, is there someone who has the overall look and says that maybe we should pick up at least one or more of these balls anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e930	As I just explained, many departments are involved in the conversion work on Andeya. The Ministry of Transport is involved, the Ministry of Knowledge is involved, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries is involved, along with my own department. That is also why I agreed to a meeting with the municipality to be briefed on the plans they had. There were very exciting plans, both in aquaculture, in tourism and not least in research and experience centres. I can assure the representative that in the government we are making decisions together. As a government, we are very concerned about securing the future of the community on Andeya. That's why a lot of departments are involved and follow up on this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e937	But time goes on, and the Andey community also needs some clarification. And the Andøya Space Center is a good example of a project that has come in a critical phase, where the state has to answer whether they're setting up with the necessary equity this is about. So I'm also very excited about the revised budget, which is presented next week. I have no expectations that the Council of State will bring some good news here, but I can be clear that the expectations as such are there. And then we'll have to wait until Monday to get the answer. But I hope it'll be a day when we get confirmation that at least there's something that solves for the Andey community. So let me finish: does the Council agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e944	Governments agree that it is very important to create new, forward-looking and secure jobs in Andøya, and therefore I am very pleased that there are different alternatives that lie on the table from the municipality itself. But Andyya Spaceport is a complicated matter. It is important here that the legal basis for granting any State aid remains. It is important that we are sufficiently confident that the business model will generate sufficient revenues and be economically sustainable in the long term. So the time when the government can make a decision in the matter depends on the outcome of assessments that are now being made, among other things. on State aid and commercial returns and risks. But here, as said, the NFD is in very close dialogue about this application and prioritises it very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e954	‘The Minister for District and Digitalisation, to the evening post on 28 April 2020, says that Norway should take less account of the environment and that the government has had the luxury of saying no to tens of thousands of jobs for environmental reasons. In what ways will we see less emphasis on environmental considerations, and can the Council of State explain to what tens of thousands of jobs the government has said no for environmental reasons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e961	The rendering of my statements is not correct. But I want to start by saying that in the Right, like in other parties, we are well-informed about the work on a new party program. Developing policies and finding answers to Norway’s challenges in the future is demanding in itself, but extra demanding in the situation we are now facing, with hundreds of thousands of outlawed companies and bankrupt companies. The more important it is to address the difficult debates, including debates where the parties' members emphasise different needs. It may not be all parties that facilitate internal debates in the public domain, but in the right we are concerned that debates are a good thing and a part of shaping the good policy measures at the end. In the case to which the representative of August refers, it is clear that I am speaking as the leader of the party's programme committee. Now I'm not here in Stortinget as the party's programme committee leader, but I still choose to answer the question. The title and the insight into the matter that Norway has to take less account of the environment must be provided by the Evening Post itself. I also think the Aukrus representative read what I actually said. There is no doubt that I still believe and will believe that there is no contradiction between creating jobs and pursuing a good climate policy. The government is doing well with the green shift. We're going to invest in green, digital jobs. We will continue to focus on green technology development and a tax system that rewards green migration. My wish with the debate is to make the need to create jobs visible at a time when it is more demanding than ever. The fact that people should have a safe job to do is the most important thing politicians can do right now. The workplaces provided by industry and nature-based industries will be important for creating jobs throughout the country. The use of nature in a sustainable way is the basis for many people's jobs. It does not in any way mean that natural interests are to be sacrificed, but at a time when many are out of work and are concerned about whether they will have a job that pays the bills and the mortgage, the debate on job creation will come in a completely different context, where the growth/protection debate will be slightly different from what we experienced when the unemployment rate was 3 pst., not 10 pst. In recent years, we have seen many examples of industry being attacked and jobs being lost. I experience a frustration out there that is now reinforced by the high unemployment rate, and that the exploitation of natural resources is all too often discussed with negative signs. In the future, we will have to look much more closely at the jobs that the natural industries can provide us with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e974	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is trying to answer, but she does not answer what I asked questions about. She says she's mistaken. Well, in the quote, which is a direct quote, it says: ‘Nearly no other country in the world has been able to do so, say no to tens of thousands of new jobs. But we do." And on the other hand, “Now we don’t have that luxury anymore.” At a time when there are half a million people who are out of work or who have been permitted, I think they are interested in knowing which tens of thousands of jobs the Council of State and her colleagues in the government have said no to. That's why I ask again: Can she explain at least a few thousand of those jobs – if she doesn't come up in tens of thousands – she has said no to as a councillor, which is what she has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e991	This was a play I had as the head of the program committee in the Right. I talked about Norway having been able to take on the luxury of saying no to jobs in nature-based industries over many decades, which unfortunately we see in Tromsø now, where a radicalised Workers' Party has been put in place by the Green, SV and Red Environmental Party. They're going against a travel life project, Arctic Center, that was supposed to build alpine hills and travel life centers. The working party has now put an end to these plans with objections and justification related to untouched nature and open-air life. This project, as I know, would have created 100 jobs in connection with it, but also indirectly, through trade and service. Such examples, where the Labour Party sets its feet down to develop new jobs around Norway, we see every day. We don't have that luxury anymore. We have to discuss how we can give people a job to do, whether it's within the industry. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e998	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1003	That was a strange answer. The Council of State therefore blames its entire play on a regulation decision that came into a municipality in Norway after she had played out. There is no other way to interpret the council than what she said was completely wrong. This government has not said no to tens of thousands of jobs. She's trying to create a false contrast, which she's also done before. That's why this case gets extra serious. She did the same when she said that it was said no to tens of thousands of jobs when the government she herself is part of said no to follow up on the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja. I totally disagree with the premise of the Council of State. There is no contrast between environment and work. On the contrary, they are interdependent. We can't save the environment if we don't give work to everyone. But we can't create jobs either if we don't take into account the environment. Then I agree much more with the leader of the international trade movement, who has said that there are no jobs on a dead planet. I hope that the Right is taking over, and that they take away the contradiction that the chairman of their programme committee has put up, but for which she has fortunately been corrected by the Prime Minister in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1010	In the case of LoVeSe, or Lofoten, the Westphalian and Senja, and that this government has chosen not to proceed with a knowledge acquisition there, the Right initially wanted an impact assessment. Let me mention examples of hydropower, wind power, forestry and mineral industries – here are many jobs that have been lost in total, over many years, because we have had so low unemployment. When I meet rapporteurs and other trust-elects in the Labour Party outside the country and in the districts, they also talk about this protection/growth debate. It is felt that there are clear lines of conflict about this also in the Workers' Party, namely between those who stand on the side of industry, who want jobs, who want to use natural resources, and those who allow other considerations to weigh much more heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1018	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: «The aggregate intention is not only to compensate municipalities for the unreasonable effects of tax failures, loss of income and additional expenditure, but to compensate them unconditionally. It is announced that major investment projects will be put on hold with the effects it will have. The Council's response is a report in April 2021. In the past, the government announced estimates in the revised State budget. Does the government believe that municipalities can wait until 2021, clarifying the costs they will have to bear with the consequences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1027	The government has been very clear that the state will provide the municipalities at this demanding time. Of course, we will follow up the Stortingen decision on compensation to help the municipal sector deliver good services to its citizens even after the Korona crisis. Fortunately, there is no urgent lack of money in the municipalities now. The municipal sector has already received increased appropriations of almost 6.5 billion. kr as a result of the outbreak of the virus. In addition, the employer’s fee has been reduced, giving the local government a saving of about 2.2 billion. kr. There is also reason to believe that wage growth will be significantly lower in 2020 than estimated in the State budget, leading to a significant increase in the scope of action for the municipal sector in isolation. The government has announced that we will provide an overall assessment of the economic impact on the municipal sector in the revised national budget for 2020. However, as the Korona crisis is not over, that assessment will not be final. For example, we want to do this. do not have a final statement of the tax intake in 2020 before the beginning of the next year. We don't know how much pay will be until after the salary is settled. And most importantly, we don't know how long we have to live with extraordinary measures to limit infection, and what effect these measures will have on economic activity over time. Therefore, the review of the revised national budget will be a preliminary assessment, and we will have to come back with both further assessments and possible action when we know more about the final impact. I am dedicated to having a good dialogue with the local government sector. That is why I have invited KS to join a working group to identify the economic consequences of the virus outbreak. The working group shall submit a final report by 1 April 2021. KS’ own estimates of the effects of the crisis crack from 12 billion. DKK to 20 billion kr. It shows that there is a need to examine the figures in order to take appropriate action on any new measures. There is also wide variation between municipalities. Although the working group has a long-term time perspective, this does not mean that municipalities have to wait until 2021 with clarifications as to the costs to be covered. Until April 2021, the Group may provide interim reports and input reports to enable the government to assess on an ongoing basis the need for new measures. In that case, we'll come back to Stortinget with it. The representative of Nordlund indicates that investment projects in municipalities are being put on hold as a result of the coronary crisis. My clear call to the municipalities is to implement the projects that are already planned and will in any case be implemented. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that this crisis is so serious that no one will be unaffected by it, nor the municipalities. The most important thing for me is that municipalities and county councils should be able to deliver good quality services to their inhabitants both during and after this crisis. I'm sure the Storting and the government together will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1044	I'm getting seriously worried. The Council of State here makes it quite clear that he has not received the latest estimates from the KS. They came so far just a few days ago. The last estimate is 18 billion. kr, not 12 br. kr, to which the Council of State refers. That's a pretty significant excitement. So this is about jobs. It is about construction and it is about necessary investment in public infrastructure. If the municipalities now cut their planned investments in spite of the calls made by the Council of State, and because the Council of State here is unable to provide security to compensate for the costs caused by the coronary crisis, yes, it will actually lead to the loss of jobs, we are going to lose activity. This means that there will be more unemployed in the future, especially in the construction sector, which are among those implementing important public projects. Then you are dependent on the order access, and that order access is now experiencing an overall industry, including in the feedback from the municipalities, going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1051	The representative Nordlund interprets very much from my post for which I do not think it is a basis. I have been very clear that the government will present the municipalities at the demanding time they are in, and of course we will follow up the Stortingen decision on compensation. That's what I started my article with. So I think I've answered the issues that the representative Nordlund is dealing with at that point. Then we're all busy with jobs and that we're going to create activity in the economy. The government will return to the Storting with which measures should be put in which sectors and at what time to contribute to the economic activity following the crisis. Right now we're in a phase where we have the brake hard pressed in. Of course, it is necessary to adapt the measures to be taken to prevent infection at all times. However, the representative can be sure that the government will follow closely and will follow up on relevant actions over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1058	I think I owe it to the Council of State to draw his attention to the fact that the Storting has expressed a much stronger intention of compensating the municipalities and the counties for services throughout the country, than the decision by the Council of State to which it refers. This was done by the Stortinget in a unanimous finance committee by 31 March. It goes significantly beyond the decision to which the Council of State refers. When talking about setting up, it doesn't necessarily mean anything to the municipalities when, in a few weeks' time, they are going to adopt their tertiary reports and plan which investments they are going to make as planned and which they are going to wait for. This will mean fewer new health homes, there will be fewer school buildings and less investment on the way, and it will mean that more people will be unemployed because the order entry into the construction industry will be delayed. It is worrying that the Council of State has no greater understanding that local politicians are sitting there watching that there is no money coming. The government says you just have to have a review, you promise to set up, but you don't make any real promises that you're actually going to cover the extra costs. It will increase unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1065	I would recommend that the representative, Mr Nordlund, await the presentation of the revised national budget before drawing the conclusions he makes, because I do not think that is the basis for the conclusions drawn by the representative here. Then it's not true that KS' estimate shows 18 billion. kr. The correct thing is that KS has a voltage in its estimate of 12.5 billion. kr and 19,5 brd. kr. It just shows the importance of having to go into these figures in order to figure out what numbers are right, and to have a unified understanding of what the actual extra costs are, what the actual small incomes are, how the compensation that has already been provided, and what measures may need to be taken over time. The representative Nordlund is powerful in his predictions, but they are nothing but predictions. It's easy to predict, but it's kind of hard to get right. That's why we have to go into this material thoroughly with KS. We're already working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1077	‘In the debate on the National Transport Plan in June 2013, Knut Arild Hareide said about Fornebubanen: ‘It is a great paradox that we are discussing what to do in 2013 at Fornebu. We should have done that a long, long time ago. That's why I'm very impatient to get started." At the time of accession, he said that climate was his main priority. How do these two statements correspond to the fact that the Council of State now, in its position, does not intersect with important steps to realise the Fornebuban but leaves its fate connected to the realization of a traffic-enhancing E18?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1084	I'm impatient after the Fornebuban is about to start. Just in order to secure funding and progress, the Fornebuban of this government was pointed out as one of the so-called 50/50 projects, where the state will contribute 50 pst. of the costs. State has already allowed large resources to plan the project. The project is discussed in both the concluded urban environment agreement between Oslo and Akershus from 2017 and in the negotiated urban growth agreement from last summer. The State is under the co-financing agreement and has not delayed progress. There has been a local process after the quality assurance has been carried out to look at savings in the project, for example. moving Skøen station. This has meant that the state has so far been waiting for more information about what the government bill should be half of. There's nothing new about the E18 and the Fornebuban. Both projects are part of a collective community in Oslopackakt3, for which it has our cross-political agreement. The Fornebuban and the E18 project are therefore politically and physically linked. Both parts will provide the metropolitan region westwards with a great boost and entirely different opportunities for cycling, public transport, clean air and urban development. At the same time, we have a completely necessary development of a national transport year that the whole country is dependent on, whether we want it or not. Both projects are part of Oslopackak 3-einheita. It is natural that when one of the projects seems to fall away, it will have consequences for the packages themselves and the other projects. This also applies to the Fornebuban. The projects are also physically linked by the E18 project containing a so-called western link that provides a new and important connection to Fornebu. Without the realization of the E18 project, this new advent to Fornebu will not come into place either. This I know that the basic owners who are going to contribute heavily to the funding of Fornebubanen have reacted. These projects are linked because they are physically linked. They are politically linked, and the funding is really linked, but I'm glad that, after so little time in my current role, I have had the opportunity to put forward a solution to the Fornebuban. My wish is that we should be happy with that, because we need the Fornebuban.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1097	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased with the positive attitude to do something for the Fornebubane that the Council of State expresses here. But if the Oslopak negotiations are going on, the Council of State could imagine withdrawing the proposition that is now in Stortinget, and taking the initiative for new solutions that can be agreed upon by all parties, or, alternatively, dissociating Fornebubanen and signing the financing plan that lies there, which has been on his table for more than ten months, do I think? Perhaps the Council of State sees that he has democratic challenges when he keeps an external view, at least seemingly, which is contrary to the view of the majority both in the Gulf and in Oslo, a region with about 2 million inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1106	What I see is that we could get security for both the E18 project and the Fornebuban through the negotiations. Now these negotiations are still in progress. The parties will meet on Friday, and I hope for a solution. Then we had security, security, for both projects. So if it doesn't happen, it's also a challenge, because these projects have been connected. We know that Bærum municipal government has made demands. For example: to comply with the requirement of 11000 dwellings, they have requested the arrival of a Fornebuban, but they have also required a western link, an E18 exit. The basic owner’s contribution, which is intended to provide funding here, is a basis for it, as a commitment. That means that the solution that I have about us gets E18 and Fornebubanen, I don't have if the E18 project isn't there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1113	TØI, the Institute of Transport Economics, has, as the Council of State is well aware, had a research project on what the enlarged E6 had to say for traffic. It was recently mentioned in the media. The results are clear. There have been queues again, but on a much higher level with the number of cars. All research, and to the extent of logic, suggests that increased road capacity increases traffic. Everything suggests that the exact same thing will happen on the E18 westward with existing plans. How can a government council that wants to raise climate issues go in for such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1118	I'm very little impressed by how those who put in the political leadership before me raised the E18 project. It has been raised as a project that I experience is different from what it really is. We're building a highway, but we're getting fewer passageways with the new road we're building, than the one that's there today. So we're building a lot more distance with express bike paths. This is also an urban development project, and when we see it, for example. what Bjørvika has experienced in this city we are now, with the motorway built in the tunnel, I think that the same urban development thinking should also be at the root of Bærum. So I think that project is a very good development project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1126	Then I got trimmed a little today, and that's good. I was in another part of Stortinget, and suddenly I was informed that I was going to ask questions. Now I'll try to read it without breathing: ‘The government has asked the government to ensure that public tenders in road, rail and fairway are designed in such a way that Norwegian operators have a real opportunity to compete for the projects. Norwegian entrepreneurs themselves strongly warn that public contracts are increasingly being designed in such a way that Norwegian companies are losing against foreign companies. On the other hand, the Council of State writes in its answer to questions to written answer No. 1353 that ‘it is very rare that Norwegian operators do not compete with international players’. [[2019-2020]] [[...]] Does the Council of State wish to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry through new grips?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1135	I note that Norwegian entrepreneurs are doing very well in the competition against foreign operators for a large transport project in Norway. In 2019, for example, 21 out of a total of 23 of the State Road Administration and New Vegar's major contracts for what can be considered Norwegian contractors, 21 out of 23 projects. With large contracts, one in this context means more than 100 million contracts. kr. This goes into what has been a clear trend for several years, namely that the vast majority of contracts for the construction of a transport project go to Norwegian entrepreneurs, and I am pleased about that. I have asked transport companies to follow the follow-up of Stortinget so that supply is designed in such a way that Norwegian contractors have a real opportunity to compete for the contracts. This policy will strengthen Norwegian companies, and thus economic development in Norway, and is a policy government closely follows up. Governments in the transport sector have shown that they take good account of the Norwegian market in the design of new projects to be launched. I am concerned that we are still working to facilitate a good dialogue between the state builders and the Norwegian construction market. This is important to ensure that information, knowledge and development of contract strategies are known to both the builder and the contractors. Through this dialogue, the Norwegian market will be better able to prepare for competitions before they are released. The builders and Norwegian entrepreneurs have a common interest in facilitating as good a competition as possible. The government takes this policy very seriously. I believe that the work that is now being done in the transport sector suggests that Norwegian entrepreneurs will be very successful in the competition with foreign operators in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1144	In the context of the package of measures adopted in Stortinget before and at Easter, it was important to set the wheels in motion. In the first place, there was income security and security for people, but then it was also getting the economy going. Among other things, we sat down. Of, if you're counting on broadband as part of your travel bet, $1150 million. kr to various transport measures to the construction industry for activity – classical countercyclical policy. Then we've seen that Avinor has unfortunately tightened up his projects, where you slow down the activity of the economy. But then we got the decision that one should try to help the Norwegian construction industry, and one of the things you get a lot of input on is that too big a project makes it demanding for some Norwegian operators. The Council of State will consider the breakdown of major projects, such as: The Hålogaland road, so that it is possible for several local and national actors to participate in the different tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1151	It is quite right, as the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, says, that we have got quite a lot of money for the transport sector and transport. Yet, in the 1.1 billion. kr will be the smaller project. There I think they're all, most of the projects are just going to be Norwegian entrepreneurs, because they're smaller. So it is quite right that the challenge has been that some of the projects have actually become bigger. This means that competition is also more demanding. It is also the case that the Norwegian plant industry has at some point asked for a larger project, and now the kind of signal that I am hearing here is also coming, that we should perhaps look at being able to split it up. It's something that we so absolutely should consider. I am concerned that in the projects that are in progress, I will be careful with that. For example, when it concerns the Hålogalandsweg, I know that there are also Norwegian entrepreneurs who are assessing that particular plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1158	The Norwegian public sector is a very large buyer of services, not least in view of the Norwegian construction industry. Just how we design purchasing policies for the state, municipalities and states has a huge amount to say about how we can develop value creation, jobs and industry in Norway. Not least in the district council of Hareide, political action has a lot to say. Therefore, I hope that the idea that was especially dominated at the beginning of the Solberg government, namely, very large plants, is being given more and more feedback from many in the construction industry that they believe it is impossible to put them on. You have to go back to the time when you split up some of the projects. In decisions taken in Stortinget, there was an additional point that the government parties got into: Norwegian operators are good to use, but it must not be more expensive. The division of projects can make things a little more expensive, but the social benefits can be increased by enabling several Norwegian plant actors to participate in the competitions. Does the Council of State Hareide think that it may be worth the price, that by splitting up projects you might make some of the projects more expensive, but you get more Norwegian players, in order to have growth and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1165	We're now dependent on keeping the wheels running. I think everyone is aware that the Norwegian plant industry, which is so competent and competent, is being commissioned. That's our wish. It has to happen in a neat way. I have taken with me the signals that, while a construction industry in Norway asked for a larger and larger project for some years back in time, they have now pointed to exactly what Battle Force Vedum here points to, that we should perhaps look at doing the projects a little less. That's what I really think we should consider, not least in the time we're in now, where we need activity in our own country. But it has to happen in a neat way. I also mean that we have to be concerned that the funds that are our common means are spent in the best possible way. It's in our interest. But we are so absolutely looking at what we can do to ensure that the Norwegian plant industry is involved and gets the assignment we want. What I mean is a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1173	‘The Covid-19 crisis affects a number of industries, including the green industries that are the foundation of the country’s future transition. Do the Councils see the need for exceptional measures for forest and wood industries in the light of the covid-19 crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1180	I share the representative's commitment to the forest industry. Forestry, forestry and wood industry are affected by the Korona crisis, as are all other industries. Forestry warned early that access to foreign labour would fail, for example, which meant that one had problems with the forest season. This made us change when it comes to foreign labour, in order to ensure this. Those who were already here got to be longer, and we opened up to EEA citizens. In addition, we made changes to the funds within the Agricultural Development Fund, the LUF, together with agricultural actors and organisations, to find funds that would help one to obtain an exceptional contribution to forest planting. The grant scheme was to compensate for additional costs due to a lower number of certified foreign seasonal workers to Norway just then. In addition, the government has, as I said, amended the regulations for recruitment. The Covid-19 situation, the Korona crisis, has also led to a decline in construction activity. The decline is growing rapidly in the value chains of forest and wood industries. Sawmilling needs to reduce the production of wood and demand for less wood. It also means that one gets timber in stock, precisely because one does not have the same consumption. Therefore, a good number of forest contractors and logging teams must stop the logging of forests. These contractors are essential for the logging in Norway. Many of the general measures included in the packages through the Storting also apply to the forest and wood industries. However, reduced production on a large scale will lead to reductions in raw material access to the pulp mill industry. It is also an important industry for us. That is why I want to establish measures precisely for this. I showed yesterday that in the revised national budget we have put on the table 50 million. kr – both because we want the wheels in motion, not least for the contractors, and to ensure that one has a mass drive. This is also a tremendous opportunity to drive and clear forests to provide better quality in the long term to the trees that are to be left, in order to get better growth opportunities and better quality and thus higher price when a hopefully returns to better times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1193	I also registered that yesterday the government left a package on the table that comes in revision. That is good, so I thank you for that answer, even though the Centre Party might wish for a more comprehensive and wider package for the forest industry. But it's important for the situation we're in, and it's also good that we get thinning of the forest. At the same time, we know that many already have major challenges. In April, half of Norway’s forest layers stood – that is, the machines stood. I also saw that the council stated that she loves large machines, after she had driven a forest machine yesterday. It's good we're more people who think it's fun. But these are also machines that bind up a lot of capital, and that shouldn't be too long before it creates huge financial problems for those who own and run them. Then the question is: The package that was presented yesterday comes under review and will be adopted in June. But many already have major financial problems. From when can these instruments be expected to enter into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1202	Yes, it is true that the Council of State likes to drive large machines. These contractors were actually in on yesterday. I have had dialogue with these precisely to understand the challenges they face when some of the machines are standing. They've also had to permite apprentices, who are very important when the industry comes up too fully again. Then one will also have the package of measures ready and allow apprentices to come back and finish the apprenticeship, which I believe is also important. Then ask the representative if it will be revised. For all the packages, we have to have a decision in Stortinget, but it is possible to work in parallel, because in that device we want to mainly use established regulations and at the same time work closely with the industry on how to turn this into a good way, so that once the decision is made, one can already be ready to spend that money. That's the way we think about working to get them out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1209	It is important that we manage to keep the forest layers going, but the centre part is occupied by the forest and wood industry on a broader basis. What has happened now is that a market is falling apart, and we need to stimulate on several points. We have to get on the other side of this crisis with a tree and forest industry that is intact, because it has to be the engine in the shift from the black carbon to the green carbon when we're going to have other values to build this country on. The Council of State was so much involved, but one of the things that is happening is that now you don't dare to take financial risks. It makes the demand for sawmills go down, the demand for pulpwork goes down. What is the government's intention to contribute to the building activity, to support the plans of the municipalities, etc. to keep that activity up? Can the Council of State say anything more about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1216	This government has had a lot of commitment to the three industries, and we came up with a forest strategy last year. It was one of the first things I did as a government council. In addition, we have a dialogue forum, which the forest industry itself has asked, precisely for at all times, both in good times and in worse times, to have a dialogue to see where the shoe is pressing, to ensure a good and future nourishment. If one thing I am convinced of is that this will be the green industry of the future. We have to use it, and not consume it, because I think it's a future both for the construction industry and for other industries to use wood. As counter-cyclical measures, this will be an important part of all the other measures, but wood will be linked to the other counter-cyclical measures that need to be taken to bring this industry up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1228	These must not be large machines, but large institutions: ‘The government is to reopen society gradually and under control, but in universities and colleges there is now considerable uncertainty and varying plans for access and reopening, even within the same geographical area. The signals from the Council of State are perceived as unclear. Nearly 300,000 students do not know what the rest of the academic year will be, researchers need access to laboratories and infrastructure. A pandemic requires a national framework, for reasons of legitimacy and effectiveness. Does the Government have a plan to control the reopening of campuses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1237	First of all, I want to thank the colleges, universities and colleges, and the students and the employees who work there, for the amazing effort that is put down to make the best of a very difficult situation. Digital education and examination are carried out on a large scale, and a formidable effort is being made to maximise research. The representative asks about a plan for universities and colleges. I am also going to answer for the technical schools, which are an important part of the higher education sector for which I am responsible. For employees of vocational schools, universities and higher education institutions, the same rules apply as those of the rest of the world of work. This means that as many people as possible have to work at home, but access can be granted to employees who need it if the rules on the protection of infection can be enforced. Institutions need to assess for themselves who needs and how many access can be provided, in the same way that all other employers have to assess this. This may vary between institutions. For example, different office solutions and different dependency on public transport to and from work will affect what is possible. Until 27 April, the campus was completely closed for students, without exception. As of 27 April, a small group of students have access. These are students who need access to complete a graduation course this spring. Therefore, priority is given to disciplines where this is believed to be particularly relevant, such as laboratory subjects, subjects requiring training facilities and the like. We have had a close dialogue with the Board of Education and the Board of Universities on what was most important to give priority first. Of course, we've also started thinking about the next step. We have a good dialogue with the Council of Universities and Colleges about this. The government will come back to the details of this very soon. I still want to draw out some things I think we need to focus on in the next step. In order to combat non-retirement and delays in education, those who need to be at the training centre in order to maintain study progress should have access. This means that we should extend from today’s opening for departure students to those who need access to maintain the study progress and complete it later. We should also consider no longer restricting access to any subject area, but rather giving institutions the opportunity to assess access for all students irrespective of subject area, if this can be justified in terms of study progress. It must of course be assumed that this can be implemented at the same time as the provisions on the protection of infection are complied with. In addition, we should say something about the holiday start this autumn as soon as possible. My clear recommendation to all those who have applied for studies this fall is that they must accept and start working on finding a place to live. But we have to make sure that institutions have time to plan both the opening of a new semester and the educational situation from August. Of course, it would be positive for institutions to be able to open further before the summer holiday. I have now communicated some important considerations we need to include in the further plans, and then we will come back to this in a very short time from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1254	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He mentioned the access that was given to «a smaller group of students» on April 27. In this context, some of the higher education institutions have developed on their own mandatory digital vector courses for students. At times, they have also prepared such a type of compulsory course for the employees, and I have noted that this is a bit of a discussion. Guidance on infectious diseases is not necessarily an area where there is an urgent need for autonomy, so I would like to ask whether the Council of State considers the development of a joint counsellor for universities, colleges and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1261	Yes. Whether we're going to create a common infectious disease supervisor, or whether we're going to ask each institution to update and have one in place, we haven't decided. I'm very much in favour of autonomy in a sector, but viruses rarely take into account the autonomy of the institutions. That's why there's something I'm very positive about, and something that we're also going to get back to quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1266	Then I thank you again for the answer. We in the Workers' Party have criticized the government for largely entrusting the international students to themselves under the pandemic. We believe it is important to maintain student mobility as far as possible. In a letter to the university and higher education sector dated 30 April, the Ministry of Knowledge suggests that the institutions should facilitate entry and exit as normal during the autumn semester of the current disease protection measures in Norway and in the relevant cooperation countries. Foreign stays require sound planning and coordination between many actors and binding agreements. So I would like to ask: what does the Council of State do to reduce the uncertainty associated with the start of the study and the implementation of the harvester nationally and to consult internationally, so that the institutions get help to facilitate this student mobility?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1275	This is an important and very good question. We have a very close dialogue with the institutions right now, precisely because, as the representative Sandberg points out, here you have to be early on with information. And that's an uncertainty. I think most of us wish we could predict where the world and Norway are in August, but we can't do that right now. As I said, it's important to get information out early. What I have communicated abroad to the institutions, but also to various media, is that I want as united a response as possible. It would be a shame if there were very large local inequalities in which institution you study, because you get an exchange or not. That's why I've asked the institutions and the UHR to coordinate on this. At the same time, we see that the challenges for student exchanges are often that they need visas in time, and that we need to have control of who's coming. There you will get quarantined if you come to Norway, but it will be different from country to country. Finally, it is that when we have this dialogue, we also have our own dialogue with institutions that graduate students in Norway attend, which are not in exchange, and where our embassies have started a work against those institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1289	Many Nordics are somehow involved in voluntary or non-profit organisations. Many of those organisations experience a very difficult financial situation after the Korona, because many events have been cancelled, and there are important sources of income. There are many who have employees and large, fixed financial costs that cannot be served, but are also not covered by the authorities, because they do not have an economic purpose in the organisation. Norsk Kennel Club, NKK, is a good example of this. They have 72 000 members and actually organise the whole of Dog Norway and are at risk of bankruptcy because they are not taken by government action packages. If a bankruptcy were to take place in the NKK, it would be critical for health and breeding work and for all dog owners throughout Norway. So my question to the Minister of Culture is: ‘Norwegian Kennel Club risks going bankrupt due to the coronary virus. [[NKK]] All events, which form a large part of the revenue base, have been cancelled. The situation in the NCC illustrates that many non-profit and voluntary teams and organisations across the country are in crisis because they are not taken by measures introduced by the authorities. A bankruptcy in NKK will have enormous consequences for all dog owners, registration, and health and breeding in dogs-Norway. What will the government do to save NKK and other teams and organisations in the same situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1299	Thank you for the question. First of all, I want to take the opportunity to thank the Norsk Kennel Club for the amazing effort and effort they put into the whole community. I have read both your press release and have had dialogue with one of the members of their board of directors, no later than tonight. That's amazing numbers: 1.2 million Northmen live with dogs, and it's a great joy for many. But it's not just about that joy. They also make a significant contribution to society when we know that in Norway we need guide dogs, drug dogs, service dogs and search dogs. Here is a significant effort being made. There are a total of 72 000 dedicated members who put this effort to rest. I understand, as the Council of State for Volunteering, that this is a very difficult period for many non-governmental organisations, including the Norwegian Kennel Club. Planned events have been cancelled, the revenues from flea markets and other revenue-generating activities are not available, revenues arising from events are not available. At the same time, there is a high demand for services, activities and not least for the community of non-governmental organisations. We have seen an enormous will to turn around and meet the new everyday life – that that will is there. We can see this through the line of volunteering, where thousands have received answers to their questions, by the fact that different annual meetings have been conducted digitally, and in children and young people individual follow-up, for example. in the corps. We know that Norsk Kennel Club also maintains its hits digitally, the way they do it. It's an extraordinary situation to be in for volunteering, also for the Norsk Kennel Club, and I understand that this effort costs money. When society shut down, there was a breakdown in income. The government made 600 million available. kr to cover the cancellation of ticket receipts and participant fees. The size adjusted this scheme up to 700 million. kr through a broad settlement, and I am very pleased about that. I have always said, from the very beginning, that we may need to adjust the system if it does not come to a successful conclusion. Now we've had experience of that, and we've seen that the arrangement we've made with the criteria that were made available didn't work out as well as we thought. Now we're working to get these adjustments into the plan. What I see and am happy about is that there are a lot of people who have actually applied. I also see that Norsk Kennel Klub is among the applicants. But it does not cover up for the loss they have suffered – they have applied for $1.18 million. kr from the scheme. I have said that this system does not meet widely enough. The one I am now working on adjusting, and I hope and have good faith that when the scheme is adjusted, it will also meet the Norsk Kennel Club in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1314	It was a good description of how important the Norsk Kennel Club is, but I'm a little disappointed that you don't come up with any more measures than that system. As the council said, it's a little over 1 million. kr, which will help the Norsk Kennel Club there, but they have said they need 10 million. NOK not to go bankrupt. The problem is that they fall outside the cash support scheme and the loan guarantee schemes because they are not taxable. After all, the increase was decided when the cash support scheme for enterprises was dealt with, that there should be a similar scheme for organisations with significant economic activity, but that is not taken because they do not have an economic acquisition for their purpose. We'll wait for that. So the government has got a very clear order for that, and it's urgent, among other things. for the Norwegian Kennel Club. Then my question is, is there going to be such a solution, either as an extension of the existing schemes or as a new separate scheme for these organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1321	After Norway had to close down on 12 March as a result of the coronary crisis, we know that there was an expansion in unemployment and the number of outpatients. I guess there's about 430,000 right now. A lot of people had to shut down their events, from concert halls to theater halls, and Norsk Kennel Club also had to shut down the activity because they put a restriction on the number of people who could meet. Then it's very difficult to wind up these events. The cash support scheme, which is under the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry, is concerned with the economy which is taxable and which is then covered by part of its unavoidable costs. Then we have created a compensation scheme for volunteering and sport, which I am now working on adjusting. It is at present worth 700 million. kr. Some of it's going to pay off, and the rest we're now working on adjustments in. As soon as it's clear, we'll report this and get to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1328	It's good to hear that it's working. I hope it comes sooner than since, because now it's been almost two months since the coronary virus broke out. NKK is a voluntary organisation for no economic purposes, but there is still a significant turnover organisation with more than 35 employees and there is a need to ensure liquidity there and many other similar locations. The NKK is in a slightly special situation because it was as late as last year's dog epidemic, as the Minister of Culture may remember, when the organisation had to shut down similar to now for several months and then used up part of its buffer to deal with that situation. It's quite unique, because it went out on Dogs-Norway. What does the Council of State think about NKK's specialty because of the dog epidemic that hit last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1335	When I spoke to the principal board member at the Norsk Kennel Club last night, this was also a theme. I think I was informed that there were about 600 events that had to be cut as a result of the dog infection crisis they experienced. So for them, the crisis now comes to the top of the second, and I understand very well that they are in a very difficult situation. Of course, the voluntary part of this, which is under my department, I'll try to make the best possible effort through the adjusted scheme that we're working on. I can assure the President that I actually sat and worked with it just before I got here, and once I'm done here, I'm going to go back to the department and continue working on that particular arrangement. I hope we'll be done with it soon so that we can tell you about it. It is important to remember that Norsk Kennel Klub has many cooperation projects under many departments, including: The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and it is important that we are also in dialogue with the other departments concerned with which they have cooperation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1346	I have a brief and concrete question for the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘What will the Council of State do to strengthen the preventive work many need to prevent flood damage and to advance this important work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1353	I want to start by thanking you for the question. The government takes people's security seriously. We have therefore strengthened the flood and scrapping appropriations in recent years. Norway has at all times been exposed to floods and incidents. In recent years, we've had more and more extreme weather situations, as we have, for example. then under the great flood of the Inland in 2018. We must also be prepared for that in the future. Flood and escape often have serious consequences. It is a threat to life and health, housing, industries, infrastructure and the environment. I have a very strong understanding that this is demanding for both municipalities and individuals. At the same time, we know that it won't be possible to fully secure everything, and we have to live with the fact that floods can lead to damage. The NVE assists municipalities in preventing damage from floods and escapes. With its significant competence, the NVE contributes to monitoring, spatial planning, securing existing buildings, monitoring and alerting. Here I also need to mention the solid support provided by the building to the municipalities in the management of major floods and events. Good cooperation between local and national actors is important. We also need to become better and better at handling floods and steps based on the evaluations we are doing. The NVE prioritises its assistance to municipalities according to socio-economic criteria. The community thus regains as much as possible in the form of a reduced risk of flood and tailoring damage. I think this is a principle it's important to hold on to. Based on monitoring and other information, a number of urban areas with a high risk of flooding and slippage have been identified. The state hazard monitoring has revealed so far that very many of us live to be exposed to floods or escapes. More extreme weather can make new areas more flood- and scrambled than they've been before. There is also an important monitoring job that needs to be done to prevent this. For the government, it's essential that people feel safe where they live. For this reason, this government has over time increased the appropriations for flood and scrapping prevention. A total of 505 million have been allocated for 2020. kr to NVE's work on flood and escape. Between 2014 and 2019, around 1.5 billion have been used. kr for the construction of physical security measures. The increased appropriations are a good basis for increasing the progress of a number of important hedging measures. In addition, Stortinget has recently granted 100 million. kr extra for this purpose. It'll be of immediate use. NVE works systematically and has a long-term perspective, and important flood and tailor-made measures are implemented annually across the country. Overwater is also a growing challenge that causes serious damage every year. From 2019 onwards, the NVE also assists the municipalities in preventing damage from flooding, through knowledge of run-off in densely built strips and guidance for municipal land planning. I can assure you that the prevention of floods and avalanches is a high priority task for the government. This work is long-term. We must continue to identify danger areas, have good spatial planning, build security measures and alert hazards, so that risks are minimised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1376	I am happy to right that the Council of State says that she is busy with this and sees that the need for Flemish and tailoring protection is increasing. It is a good idea and cheaper to prevent than to repair. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness issued a report in 2017 on actions that should be implemented by 2022. NVE has calculated the cost of it, which is about 4 billion. kr. Then it'll be 500 million. kr, which the government itself defines as a commitment to the State budget for 2020, and the 100 million. kr extra from Stortinget, literally a drop in the sea. Then the question is, when we see that the weather is getting warmer, more wild, wetter and less dangerous, will the government come with promises that over a four-year period can meet the needs that NVE has calculated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1383	There is no doubt that the need is very great. It takes a lot of money. But what I've been busy with in the period we've been in government, which I also pointed out in my post, is that the pace and framework of how large these appropriations have been over time, has been constantly increasing during our reign. Right now, it's extra important, because we know that these are measures that not only ensure life and health but also give good employment effect. So in many ways, donations to flood and tailor-made measures are win-win measures. I fully agree that it is important to keep pace up. I also believe that we have raised it considerably from where it was earlier. It's true that the NVE has mapped out the need to be closer to 4 billion. kr. But it is also important that NVE works on a priority list, and that you do the most important first and most important things for, both in terms of securing life and the most efficient use of money. But of course: keeping a high pressure on these appropriations will make the NVE able to do more, and make it faster. So that's 100 million. kr that comes from Stortinget now, very well. The NVE has just announced the projects that are now being supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1390	The councils were in the autumn flood in 2018 in Skåk, from which I came. Skåk became a hard frame, and the government councils came into the helicopter and saw. Now there's a new flood warning from the State of the Interior, based on NVE calculations, because of record snow in the mountains. The total cost of clean-up and flood prevention so far is 164 million. kr after the flood that was in 2018, with a large asset, which is cool for the municipalities. The work is planned and ready to be done, but NVE doesn't have funds, and one wasn't given priority now either. In addition, municipalities experience complicated legislation and a bureaucracy that will never end, they say. For this reason, I wonder if the Council of State will ensure that these plans that are clear are implemented – they were themselves in large and small communities, this is a small community, but they can have major consequences – and whether it will initiate a review to simplify a complex regulatory framework that often inhibits processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1397	I also think there are a lot of things that indicate that the NVE's implementation capability is very good. It hasn't been many weeks since Stortinget granted 100 extra million. They are already aware of the projects to be supported, now that more money has become available. All the projects that receive money in the allocation that came now are likely to be almost completed during the coming year. That's a pretty good and fast drive. We fully agree that we need to continue, of course, looking at how we can ensure that the money that is available is used quickly. When Skåk was hit by the flood, they asked the NVE for assistance immediately. They got it. The NVE was there and helped to reduce the damage. In retrospect, a major crisis response has also been completed at Skjøli i Skåk. It was finished in the autumn of 2019. In every way, I very much agree that this is a big challenge, and it's very important that we have a high pressure on it. But I also believe that it happens quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1409	‘The Court of Auditors points out that it is highly critical that the Ministry has not sufficiently identified the consequences of changes, as required by the Administrative Act. Little consideration has been given to how the changes in the quota system have affected the fishing activity of coastal communities after they have been implemented. Why have changes in the fisheries policy not been properly assessed and is what is proposed in the quota notification now sufficiently identified?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1416	I want to start by saying that I take the Riksrevisions report very seriously. The National Audit Office considers that, in some hearing notes, the Ministry has not sufficiently addressed issues that the Riksrevision believes should have been investigated. The national audit considers that the management needs to adequately monitor the effects of changes in the allowance system. The National Audit Board has been through a period of 15 years, with three governments and five magnifications, and has found four things that they think should have been better investigated. The National Audit Office sets out one example of a highly critical and deficient impact assessment. This concerns a 2008 consultation note. I take the Riksrevision's report very seriously and have therefore, in my comment to the Riksrevision, explained how I will follow up their recommendations. The representative of Moxnes also questions whether the proposals made by the government in the quota notification, which will be discussed tomorrow, are well assessed for consistency. I will answer yes to that. There is a long-standing process in place, starting in 2016, with the NOU of the Eidesen Committee and various hearings prior to the presentation of the quota notification last year. The debate that has taken place over the course of the year may also be seen as a sort of consultation. Chapter 2 of the notification discusses the objectives of the quota system, including employment and coastal settlement and the contribution of the quota system to the material basis for Sami culture. Chapter 3 discusses the government’s action on an effective, flexible and legitimate quota system. Chapter 4 elaborates the proposals and discusses the implications. In addition, there is a separate chapter on socio-economic, administrative and regional policy implications and climate and environmental impacts. The consequences for the Sami people and Sami culture are also discussed. The notification of allowances has been primarily criticised for the measures proposed. The message will indicate a direction forward. The Ministry will also assess the impact of measures before they are implemented, based on the Storting guidelines. I would like to stress once again that I take the Riksrevisions report in the utmost seriousness. However, it is important to stress that the Riksrevision report also points out that the profitability of the fishing industry has improved and that activity has increased in some fishing communities. It must also be said that we have succeeded in ensuring the sustainable management of fish stocks, which is a solid base for fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1444	The Riksrevision takes a tough judgment on Norwegian fisheries policy when it states: ‘Increasing quota prices has made it more difficult to recruit new fishermen. Changes in the smallest coastal fleet have a negative impact on coastal communities. Several fisheries-dependent municipalities have been reduced in fishing activity. Several changes to the allowance system are insufficiently determined by the ministry.» We then know that the fisheries management does not contribute to ensuring employment and settlement in coastal communities. At the same time, the Ministry has not been able to investigate the consequences of the fisheries policy. How, then, is it possible for the Council of State to stand here in the main hall and say that it is proper for the quota notification to be knocked through tomorrow, without the current policy being sufficiently determined?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1466	There are three objectives that have been important to the fisheries policy for a long time. One is to have sustainable management of fish stocks, so it's fish to catch next year as well. It is to increase profitability and value creation, which in turn will contribute to increased activity and employment along the coast. The last thing, points out the Riksrevision, has been only partially successful, because in some coastal communities it has been worse than in others. It's a very important challenge in the future. I think there is a cross-political consensus that there should still be an objective to achieve more activity and more employment in coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1471	There's a coastal uprising in Norway for a reason. While it boils of fish in the sea, 29 municipalities have lost all the wild fish industry, nine municipalities have lost all their fish recipients, and a number of municipalities have lost many fishing receptions. The Trolls send the fish out of the country instead of creating jobs in Norwegian coastal communities. Seven out of ten fish go straight out of the country unprocessed. People along the coast have had enough of this and want the fish back to the people and not to the quota barons. In the nations this week, the Minister for Fisheries writes the following: ‘I have said in my reply to them that I will evaluate all recommendations for follow-up.’ Why does the government not draw the quota notification, review the National Audit Office's report and ensure a necessary investigation of the fisheries policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1483	It's important for us to indicate a predictable and stable direction ahead for those who run in the industry. We can't see that postponing the message to impact more will have any effect. The most important thing is to indicate direction forward and to clean up and simplify a part of what has been problematic in the allocation of resources. It must also be said that fisheries are not solely responsible for overall social development. There are also other factors that affect the development of certain coastal communities. That's what we wanted to point out, without in any way minimizing the findings that the Riksrevision has made. A good economy in the fishing industry is the best starting point we can have for more development, more value creation and even more jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1495	‘The experience with the reopening of kindergartens and schools shows that it requires increased resources and increased staffing. What concrete action does the Council of State now take to identify the extent of increased costs around the country, and what guarantees of compensation can the government give to schools and kindergartens that are now detonating their budgets to ensure safe and sound reopening?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1502	On 19 March, the government asked the government to compensate municipalities and county councils for the undue effects of tax failures, loss of income and additional costs associated with dealing with the infectiveness situation and changes in economic development since the adopted State budget. Of course, the government will follow the decision of the Storting. In the revised national budget for 2020, we will return to Stortinget with an overall assessment of the economic impact on municipalities as part of the virus outbreak. We need to look at the need for compensation for kindergartens, schools and SFOs for additional costs during the period of infectious diseases throughout the period we have had the coronary outbreak, and for the municipal sector as a whole. We do not know how long this situation will last, and I believe that there is no basis for compensating specifically for this at this stage. For the time being, we do not have an overview that suggests that kindergartens and schools are not financially equipped to handle the increased costs they have incurred for cleaning and extra staff, but we will of course reconsider whether the situation is long-lasting. Kindergartens and SFOs in publicly funded schools receive compensation for the loss of income as a result of the failure of parents to pay when the offer was closed. For the first part of the period of closure, Stortinget granted 1 billion. kr for such compensation. Compensation for the remaining closure period will come back to me in the context of the revised national budget. The size has already allowed further around 4 billion. kr to the municipalities. Most of these are funds put in the municipal framework, and the municipalities have a responsibility to prioritise the funds properly. Municipalities are free to cover exceptional costs arising from the opening of kindergartens or schools. In this context, I am concerned that municipalities are assessing the situation of all their kindergartens, both private and municipal. There will also be different needs in different parts of the country. During the crisis, I have had regular contact with the organisations in the kindergarten and school sectors to keep me informed about the situation. Through the local authorities, the Directorate for Education and Training has contacts with the local government sector in order to monitor the progress of the reopening of kindergartens and schools. I would also like to point out that the government is going to set up a working group to assess how the coronary crisis has affected the local economy as a whole. The working group shall systematically review the types of expenditure and revenue affected by the outbreak of the corona virus and shall provide an estimate of the amount of the different types of expenditure and revenue. This working group shall be composed of representatives from several departments and from the KS. The Group shall issue a final report by 1 April 2021. In the course of the work, it is assessed whether the group is required to submit one or more interim reports. Then I want to finish by saying that the municipalities have an incredibly important job in this very demanding time. Local government officials throughout Norway are now making a tremendous effort, and it is clear that these new infectious guides to which schools and kindergartens have to deal require an extra amount of kindergarten and school staff every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1521	I want to thank you for the answer and say I fully agree with the latter. The most important thing now, which we are fully in agreement about, is to get a safe and sound opening. I am pleased that the Council of State is now much more aware of the need for increased resources than before, and is looking forward to a concrete overview when the revised budget comes. But the government is still pushing the problem ahead. In a way, the municipalities are already in a situation where they use all their resources to deal with this crisis, where the local economy has become worse, and where the municipalities still do not know how much of the extraordinary expenditure they have now will be reimbursed by the state. It is a discharge, I think, that the Minister of Knowledge does not address this. A rapporteur I spoke to said, "Now we're working on firefighting, one has no time to prevent, we're going to get rid of the most vulnerable students, we need the money." These are the consequences I'm a little concerned about, and I know that the Council of State has also been involved. But does the Council not see that promises and lack of extra resources have serious consequences for schools and kindergartens today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1528	I would like to start by saying that I share the concerns of the representative Tvedt Solberg for the municipalities, and I want to be quite clear and say that the government and the state have to stand up for the municipalities. Then, together with the municipalities, we have to figure out when and how we're going to put in exactly what measures. However, the government is concerned that municipalities should have a good and predictable economy, and that is crucial for a good service provision for citizens in today's situation. We know, of course, that the municipal sector can expect both large additional expenditure and significant minor expenditure as a result of the coronary crisis. At the same time, it's still very uncertain what the consequences will be, but we know that they'll be big. I believe that the Stortinget made a wise decision on 19 March when the government was asked to compensate for both tax failure, additional expenditure and changes in economic development, and we follow this decision of course. And in the revised national budget for 2020, we will come back to Stortinget with an overall assessment of the economic impact on the municipalities of the virus outbreak.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1535	I agree that we in Stortinget were very wise when we made that decision, and that is perhaps what also makes us somewhat doubt that the government will come with all the answers when the revision comes, since the government did not have the same answers in the previous round. But I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is clearer now than she has been before. But even now, before the answers come, many principals and teachers around the country face difficult evaluations and decisions they have to make. They see that their budgets are already being used up, and they will have to decide whether to continue spending money they don't have, whether to prepare for school budget cuts for the fall, or whether to stop the work that has been started on reopening. What is the Minister of Knowledge's advice to the principals now standing up in such difficult elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1542	I understand the impatience of the representative, and I also want to say that the framework grants to the municipalities have already increased by almost 4 billion. NOK, plus the compensation they received for the cancellation of the parental payment. If the state is to be able to take effective action in the current situation, it is also important that we have a good professional assessment of the economic impact. We know that it will be very different, for example, in the different municipalities where it goes the most, both in terms of the loss of tax revenue and where they get the most expenses. For the time being, no one has a good enough number of what this really means. I tried to make sure instead of saying very clearly that the government is going to stand up for the municipalities, and I still do. It's important to bring it with you. But then I also think it's important to stress that it's actually not all the challenges money can solve. Although you have to divide into smaller groups in schools, it's not just to throw in extra teachers in a short time. It is important that we manage to find other solutions that will still give us a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1547	Then your case no. 2, the ordinary Question Time, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-06.ana.ud68e1561	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? It has not happened. - The meeting has been cancelled.
