ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e103	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e110	On behalf of the major representatives of Marit Arnstad, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Bengt Fasteraune, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure the tradition and crafts sector as carriers of Norwegian cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e115	The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e120	On behalf of Nils T. Bjørke, Ruth Grung, Kjersti Toppe, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Ingrid Heggø and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new concession for Röldal-Suldal power plants. Since the matter is already under consideration in the Department and a decision is expected before the New Year, we ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that, if necessary, there will be a break in the meeting after the debate on case No. 16 has been completed before voting is called — this is in order for any transfers of cases from the Council of State to be dealt with in the current minutes. Case No. 1 to 8 will be treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of laws and apply to the legislative decisions of 25 to 32.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e226	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e242	It is a unanimous position that I am putting forward on behalf of the Committee on Budgets on which there is not much dispute but which is nevertheless important. An overall committee proposes to allocate NOK 92 511000 to the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration, which we refer to daily as the Civil Ombudsman – as a matter of fact. For the time being, it's called the Civil Ombudsman, but it's going to change. It is, in my opinion, one of the jewels of our democratic crown that we have an up-to-date, professionally strong institution that takes care of the UN's preventive mandate against torture and inhumane treatment, but which is not least an institution that the citizens of Norway can use and use if they feel they have suffered from public authority congestion. They're doing a solid job. They are an important valve for raising cases that meet the Constitution's requirement that you do not suffer from overload. Then we have the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Control Committee, where an overall committee proposes a grant of NOK 34 600 000. I would suggest that I think that we have fairly reasonable money to deal with in a proper way the control we are going to have with the secret services, which is absolutely necessary for a democratic country to have. It is absolutely necessary to have secret services, but it is also important to have democratic control over their adherence to the laws and working methods underpinned by Norwegian legislation. It's a work that will, in the future, require more resources in relation to a technological development that we see. Not least, Stortinget itself has found that there has been a data breach. Technological development is very fast. It is important that the secret services are able to keep up with it. But then it is also important that those who control the secret services be able to keep track of it. Finally, we have proposed NOK 552 491 000 for operating expenditure for the Riksaudition and NOK 27 900 000 for international organisations and networks. The National Audit Office is an example of follow-up for many countries. It is important to learn from each other between countries, so the international activities of the National Audit Office are important. But, not least, the thorough reviews and reports we receive from the National Audit Office in the ongoing work are important. As I said, all the proposals are unanimous, but the vote shows that the Committee's member originally thought that it should be cut by 15 million. kr to the Riksrevision and the Central Party that it could be cut 25.9 million. kr, and I expect representatives of the parties themselves to explain which services or activities they believe should be reduced in the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e274	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e279	In the case of the State Council's protocols, too, the setting up of the Control and Constitutional Committee is unanimous. The document we are examining now involves an important check to follow up the decisions and intentions of decisions underpinning the decision of the Stortinge to be followed up by the government. Therefore, the document is important, even if a person rarely hears the big comments from Stortinget. This time, there's been a report of one of those in the government. It was the members of the Left Government who took this in the Bill on the Intelligence Service. In the case of concessions, there are few. Most of the applications are rejected, some are appealed to the Council of State, and a few are complied with, usually in line with a positive attitude of the Ministry. But in these days I can say that we get to be happy with the practice we have in terms of possible concessions. When you see how big a political theme this is in the United States for the time being, I'm happy with the system we have, and that it's not being used politically. So there's a review of regulations, which is an essential part of this case, and this year it's been a very special year. The report we now have is valid until 30 June, and in that period, and so far also in the period after, we have had and still have a special situation in Norway. Some of the special thing this time, is that it was adopted a separate corona law in the Stortinget. It was on a proposal from the government, but with significant changes to the law when it was dealt with in Stortinget. The working time was reduced from six months to one month, it was tightened up in relation to a general wish to derogate from the laws to limit it to 62 specified laws, and not least a safeguard mechanism was introduced that a possible regulatory proposal could be stopped by one third of the Sizette. Then, of course, it would be possible for the government to make proposals for the Storting and have it dealt with in an ordinary way. And I want to say that during the Korona period, the Stortinget has shown an amazingly good ability both to cooperate and to deal with matters quickly. But it's a very special situation, which is a dominant part of this report on the State Council's protocols. Another area that has been used a great deal this year, another law that has been used as a basis for regulation, is the Code on Disease Protection. 53 regulations have been adopted on the basis of the IPD Act, and there is a unanimous committee that believes that both in the field of the practice of the temporary law, which was repealed on 27 May, and not least in the practice of the IPD, which is supposed to be a permanent law, it is important to go through the experience of them and not least the democratic perspective of them, once we have put the period of the special situation behind us. Because it is important that we strike the balance between the ability of the executive to act quickly and democratic control. We must ensure that this balance is maintained. Finally, a few considerations about regulation, for it has been a topic, among other things. in previous reviews of the State Council minutes of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and I can say that it is also a topic of the Grand-appointed Harberg Committee: it is a dilemma in our democracy that, in terms of power of delegation, the distance from the legislator's intention to become quite large. Then it's unusually important that we, as guardians of democracy, look after that the rules that are designed are actually in line with the Storting's intention. It must be the kind of delegated powers, but it is important that we take care that they are also followed up by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e296	I will add some general comments, a little in the extension of what the chairman of the committee spoke about in his statement, concerning powers laws. The committee leader described nicely how the Stortinget improved the corona law that the government presented, as I see it, and how important it was. I think about how the Storting came together and managed to find a law that balanced just what the government needs in order to be able to act quickly in the face of an unbridled situation, while at the same time taking care of the Storting's need for minority rights, ongoing control, transparency and involvement. It became the country in a very good way. This has also been problematic in the case of the IPD, because under the IPD Act, the government has extensive powers, but with a very weak control and involvement from the Stortingen en route. It is quite obvious that in meeting a pandemic, you have to have powers – knowledgeable powers – and the ability to act quickly, but if there is just something the Korona Act has shown us, it is that Stortinget can also take responsibility along the way. You can get a anchor in Stortinget that does not prevent the effective handling, the rapid, temporary changes in the law that are needed to meet a pandemic. SV joins a unanimous committee in this matter, but I would also like to point out from the pulpit that we have proposals to look into the infectious diseases law. We believe there's reason to do that, and not reason to wait. But there's a large majority on Stortinget that we're going to take that discussion when we're out of this pandemic, and we're really looking forward to it. If there's one thing this time has shown, it's just that the Storting takes responsibility. The size could result in continuous control that does not prevent effective crisis management. Rather, on the contrary, the Stortinget has been leading crisis management in some areas in the last year. That's important, and we're going to learn from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e307	This year has been very special. The Coronapandemic has taken a great deal of the attention of government, the Greatness and society as a whole. I thought I'd say something about words about the Korona Law and the background for it. The Anti-Infection Act has known anti-Infection measures, and the government had the powers that we needed to implement quickly in March, although these are the most stringent measures laid down in peacetime. At the same time, we saw that the measures to protect infection had a number of consequences, e.g.: that the courts could not work as usual, or that directors and general meetings of limited liability companies and housing associations could not be held and made the necessary decisions. We had then three choices: it was not doing anything and hoping that it was still going well, we could ‘make’ the regulatory homes in the infectious diseases law and other laws, or we could lay down a new law. As we know, we chose the last one because we thought it was important to have a solid legal basis for the rules we gave, while at the same time we were concerned that the Storting should be involved. The Committee on Emergency Response, which had recently been at the hearing, gave inspiration to the bill. Among other things, the government's proposal that the Storting should be able to adopt, by at least one third of the votes at all times, decisions that completely or partially repealed the regulation was a proposal that had been taken from the committee's investigation. At the same time, the Korona Act had a broader purpose and a different basis from the selection proposal. While the aim of the proposed new emergency law is to provide so-called critical social functions, the purpose of the Korona Act was, at the government's proposal, to limit the disruption of «normal» social functions. And while the draft law of the Emergency Committee is based on constitutional emergency law, the Korona Act was based on the Storting's general access to delegate its legislative competence. The Korona Law created a great debate, and that is natural when the government asks for such broad powers. The size changed the bill on a number of points, and there were changes with which the government lived well. The number of regulations laid down in accordance with the law shows that the law was necessary as was the case in March. By extension of the law, a clear majority of the majority of Stortinget stated that most of the regulations had been both correct and necessary. The Korona Act was repealed after two months, and a number of the regulations were replaced by provisional laws. Also in this process we had a good cooperation with Stortinget, who showed great ability to work quickly with the necessary legislative changes. The situation this year has challenged all parts of our society, including government and greatness. I believe, however, that we have shown here a great capacity for both cooperation, flexibility and the ability to make decisions quickly. I want to thank the Stortinget for a very close and good cooperation in a very special year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e328	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e333	Let me just elaborate a little bit on what I said about regulations, because, as I said, it is important to follow the regulations made in accordance with delegated powers. When we are concerned that the government should be clean to the Storting, it is also important that we, as a magnificence, be neat to the government and in the distribution of responsibilities between ourselves. Then I thought I'd give you an example that we've had in this period. It is the ongoing discussion about predatory game management in Norway, which I am not going to go into now, but there has been a disagreement between dumping and government as to whether the Stortinge intention has been followed up. In that case, the Stortinget chose to do what is right if we believe that the decision of the Stortinge should be clarified – not to see it from the pulpit of the Stortinge or to write it in a note, that may be good, but in that case by changing the law itself to establish that the achieved stock targets are one of the things to be taken as the basis for the administration. That's a very neat way to do it. If there is disagreement about the understanding of the law, it is clarified by, in that case, a change of law. Finally, the State Council Protocols also contain a chapter on appointments, which this time has not led to any comments from the Committee. Some may wonder, because there was a lot of discussion about the appointment of the Fisheries Director. A new government practice has developed by appointing a government official who is still in government. This is an entirely new practice. I expect that the appointment of the Fisheries Director will be part of the next report, for the six months we are now in, and may say that it will necessarily have to be a topic in connection with the next consideration of the State Council's protocols in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e342	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e359	Now we've just highlighted the special situation we've been in and in the country, but it'll probably follow us for a while to come. One of the important tasks of the Storting is to ensure that democratic rights are respected even in such a situation. We have to make sure that everyone in the same way as we do can be part of the democracy we appreciate, and get opportunity as before and as usual to engage. In this case, there is the possibility to establish new lists of choices. Therefore, it has been necessary to make some temporary changes. It's demanding because personal participation with signatures and attendance has been one of the key elements of the solidity of our democracy, and then suddenly we start talking about digital solutions. But we perceive that what is proposed as a temporary solution now, in this turn of the law of union, is well balanced. It ensures the quality of what is done, while providing the necessary flexibility so that one can continue with the democratic rights, but in a new way during this period. It is important to point out that a solution similar to the one we are now proposing was dealt with at Stortinget in June this year. Then it was a choice for the Stortinget, the county council and the local government. That time we didn't bring what was going on with the law of union and elections, and so it's natural that we now do the same thing there. There is an overall committee which supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e368	This is, as the rapporteur said, a natural follow-up to the law we were dealing with in June, which dealt with the list proposals for roll-out elections. It's quite natural that you now give the same opportunity for aggregation choices. When we discussed the matter in June related to the election lists, I had a special remark with my good friends in the Progress Party, which was that a system of electronic signatures should also apply to the future, not only in the particular situation in which the country is now. As I then interpreted the mood in the committee, there were probably many others who might agree that we need to use the new electronic tools, which are not so new anymore, to make it easier to list large-scale choices, to select combinations and also to make other local choices, etc. When I had this comment, we had a small debate related to it, and I found that the municipal minister, who was present at the time, was very positive about seeing this as a permanent arrangement as well. I just wanted to mention it, and that this was an important debate at the time. If you're looking at whether that kind of scheme applies to roll-out lists, it's quite natural that you do that for all the other choices, including the one we're dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e379	As a result of the outbreak of covid-19, the government sees the need to make a change in the law of union in order to facilitate the implementation of the merger election in 2021. The recommendation for limited contact among the population in order to reduce the risk of infection is also likely to limit the ability of batches and proposers to obtain the necessary signatures to list the merger selection in 2021. For this reason, the government wants access to electronic signatures to sign list proposals in 2021, including by the merger option. The Government therefore proposes a temporary provision in the Law of Association which allows the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation to adopt the necessary amendments to the Regulation. Even in a demanding time, electoral implementation should be as normal as possible, and this proposal will make it even easier to collect signatures to make choices without jeopardising the level of protection against infection. In June this year, the Grand Duchy adopted a temporary amendment to the electoral law on access to electronic signatures to the list proposals for the elections in 2021. The Government considers that the same infectious disease protection considerations and the need for simplification apply also in the merger selection. We generally believe that there should be equal rules for aggregation and aggregation choices, unless there are fundamental or practical reasons for having different rules. We see no reason to have different rules in this case either. The Government considers it important that the proposal be adopted now, so that the electronic signature system will have an effect on the 2021 merger elections. The deadline for submitting lists is 31 March 2021. The election directorate has been given the task of developing a digital solution for the collection of signatures. This solution shall respect security and privacy requirements in a good manner. The digital solution shall be translated into northern Sami, lulesamian and southern Sami. The merger has given its support to the legislative proposal and has not seen the need for consultations to be conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e416	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e423	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. I'm glad there's a joint committee behind the vote. The Proposition proposes five interim laws that will, in different ways, contribute to the defence of criminal justice under the covid-19 pandemic. The bill applies to changes in the criminal enforcement law and includes a proposal for a rule on visits to prison, and a proposal for a statute that, after a concrete assessment, criminal services may decide that a committed or partially excluded person should be jointly or jointly with other prisoners when the decision is made on isolation or quarantine under the infectious diseases law, or when the insertion has symptoms of covid-19. In addition, there is a proposal for a rule on increased access for criminal services to decide that a sentence for a period is to be executed outside prison, mainly by foot, when the capacity of criminal services so requires, and security conditions are appropriate. It has also been suggested that criminal services should be able to decide to interrupt the punishment and execution of penalties in society and, finally, a proposal for a rule which would make it clear that, after a concrete assessment, criminal services can refuse to permit or release a prisoner, or to re-approve a permit or leave if implementation could lead to a specific risk of infection or health. The destinations concerned are proposed to be the criminal enforcement law Chapter 3 A Temporary rules to address the negative consequences of covid-19 and are intended to apply until 1 June 2021 In the Right, we fully understand that there is a need to temporarily adapt the law, in the light of the increased infection that we have had in society through the East. The Covid-19 pandemic can pose a risk to life and health, and many prisons in Norway will be at risk. In particular, it is important to prevent incarceration in prison in order to protect the health of those added and others who have their daily function there, and to ensure that there is sufficient staffing at any time. We have seen some outbreaks in some prisons, but I must say that I am impressed that the outbreaks of infection have been so limited and controlled as they have been. I'd like to add all the honors to the criminal services and cooperating agencies for good work so far in the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e440	Criminal law, and in particular the operation of prisons, are affected in various ways by the covid-19 pandemic. When the pandemic arrived in the country, criminal services focused on preventing infection from entering prisons and on reducing the number of prisoners in order to ensure safe conditions for those who still had to be there. There has been a huge job done by all employees in the criminal service, and overall they succeeded in handling it. Activities could mainly be run almost as normal over the summer, but with the flowering of infection in the harvest, action has again been needed. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with this issue quickly, and a unanimous committee is joining in on the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution. In May, Stortinget adopted temporary rules, including: on visits to prison and the possibility of deciding on a criminal offence for prison sentences. The current legislative proposal contains a similar provision on access to refuse visits. Furthermore, the proposal is slightly different from the rules adopted in May. Penalty interruptions during prison sentences are unfortunate, both for individuals — who are about to start their lives again — and for society. Crime prevention has pointed to the extension of access to the provision of foot-link punishment as a better tool for reducing the number of prisoners than for deciding on a criminal offence. Therefore, the proposal also provides a somewhat extended basis for deciding that a jurisdiction for a period of time can zone by foot-link. I stress that the proposal is linked to the situation of covid-19, and that if security issues conflict, there is no decision to transfer to foot-link zone. Furthermore, all transfers to foot-link zone following the new provision shall be limited in time. In other words, the system is situational and cannot be seen as an expression of liberalisation or a general exception to the general rule that imprisonment should be carried out in prison. The proposals in the proposition are designed in the light of the experience we have from the months behind us. Significant emphasis has been placed on the consideration of offenders, including the need to seek compensation for the adverse effects of measures. I believe that the proposals balance the different considerations in a good way, and I thank the Committee for good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e453	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e470	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e487	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e496	I'm the first speaker, but that doesn't mean I'm the case rapporteur. The rapporteur, from the Labour Party, is not present for the Stortinget's briefing. She is sick, and there are also other representatives from the Workers' Party. I was then asked to take the first post, not as the case rapporteur, but as the proposer. I am very pleased that we have received a majority in this matter today. The Labour Party and the Central Party, but also the Progress Party, support us in the matter that the local police stations in Oslo should not be closed down. So today we also expect that there will be a very clear message to the police that the plans they have to put down these two police stations, and then also the plans to build a new unit, stop, and the police do this in a different way. So it became known in spring that the police in Oslo, probably after being informed by the police department in the police department and perhaps even up to the Minister of Justice, wanted to shut down the two police stations in Oslo East and South. The various city councils affected by this went immediately to action, and all of them protested against these plans. The City Council in Oslo also dealt with the matter, but did not take a position on it and left it to the police. There are two factors that make me choose to take this case to Stortinget. One is that we are facing a structural change of police resources in Oslo that affects almost half of the city's population, 280,000 people. The police did not plan for this change to be politically anchored. So it was not in the police's intention to discuss this with the city council or city council, nor with the Stortinget. I believe that this is too big a decision for the police to take it alone, even if they have permission to do so. The next thing I responded to was that the consequences of the plans were not established either. It was not investigated how the police would work differently on the basis of this, it was not investigated how the police would solve their preventive mandate, and it was not determined what the audience's meeting with the police would be like with these plans. Would e.g. the threshold for reporting difficult cases to be higher or lower? It wasn't figured out. Nor was it investigated how police working methods would change, for example. whether there would be more or less patrolling and greater or less local presence, and how to work towards vulnerable young people, etc. Nothing was determined. Neither was the economic work done. It was claimed by some police officers in Oslo that they wanted to save money on this, and that this money could be transferred to other police work. But these numbers we haven't seen, even though we've asked for it. So nothing in these plans has been investigated, and I believe that we need to demand – when a decision is so big and affects half the city’s population – that there are good impact assessments on the basis of the decision-making basis. Once the police have been challenged in the public debate, they use terms like promising the public good police resources, and they also say they should save money. But this is what you can call good Christmas and good New Year considerations, because there is nothing of this that is explored or handwritten, and it is not documented in writing either. It is not like we in SV want to semente how the police will work. We are not going to decide in Stortinget today which buildings the police are going to be in. But we expect that when the police make major changes in the way they will organise themselves in Norway's largest city, these have a political anchor, and we also expect that there is a basis for decision-making that is known and public and that we can trust. It is absolutely critical for SV, when we are going to discuss how the police are going to work in Oslo, that the prevention work is being carried out in a good way, especially to vulnerable young people. It is also crucial for us that the police are equipped to handle violence and rape in close relations, and there should be a low threshold for reports. In addition, it is crucial for us that the police organise themselves in such a way that police work can be carried out with the least possible use of power. On this basis, we have now received a majority in this matter, so that the police will not merge in this area. We want a near-police that is close to where people live and that provides the public services in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e521	The stork hall is a hall with amazing possibilities. Here we can decide almost everything, if anything. What started out as a slightly limited practice of adopting laws and budgets and adhering to them has now evolved into a tradition in which we adopt requests for very many different themes. It's good in a way, but it also presents a challenge, because in a hectic media image it's also very tempting to throw yourself at things and trends – and suddenly forget what constitutional responsibility you actually have. I can imagine many, many different things that it could have been tempting to go into. Is this supposed to be the annual work of the local medical officer? Should the military practice on specific scenarios, and perhaps especially where you come from? Should administrative proceedings be carried out? It's maybe individual things that get a lot of attention in the media, and it's revolting. Do you need individual case treatment in this room? It has occurred and will probably occur in the future as well. So now it's happening in the Justice Committee. They are now tempted to enter into a difficult debate on the orderly situation of urban areas in Oslo, and then put themselves at the police's disposal. Should it be one or two or three police stations? Where are they supposed to be? How are they to be operated? Although it's tempting, it's not certain that it's right and wise to do it that way, because the big principal challenge is that you now move responsibility away from the police, but actually away from the government as well. Then you move that responsibility into this room and into individual representatives and party groups. If the results do not follow these decisions, where, for example: add up to the day-to-day patrol in certain parts of the city, who is to be held responsible? Who is to be held responsible for the missing results? These are fundamental questions that I think it's very unfortunate that the majority don't reflect more on. First of all, there is an intrusion into investment decisions and the kind of localization issues in the police. It has some economic consequences. We know that this is most likely to cause claims in the cooling water. I hope the majority are ready to pay the bill, at least. It is a little frustrating that the police now have to spend money on potentially paying out damages and delaying matters rather than doing their core tasks. The second part of this proposal is much more problematic, and it's about putting yourself in the task of the chief of police. It says there's going to be lucky day patrolling in district a and city b, but there's no one to reflect on: what about city c? What about the police districts x, y and z? Where's that supposed to stop? When will this hall find out that something is actually the responsibility of the government and the chief of police? In principle, there are now quite a number of assistant police officers in this room, all of whom bear a small share of a responsibility that they have taken from the police chief and placed with themselves. There's no good way to run the police, and there's no good way to run the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e538	In particular, there are two areas where the police are facing challenges. I am among those who are well pleased with an important and good police reform, but we also have some challenges that I think we should really address. It's about the fact that the police are not everywhere as present as we would prefer, and it's also about a particular challenge, especially in the capital, which is about recriminalism, which we're now seeing develop more places in the country, around Oslo, etc. There are real challenges that need to be addressed. That is why the Progress Party is very pleased that in the negotiations with the government parties on the budget we were able to obtain an additional 100 million. to strengthen police closeness in all police districts. Because it is very important. It's about the security of most people, and it's about the police being there when they're needed. But also 60 million. We were able to agree with the government parties on the fight against recriminalism. If you see challenges that are most real, and you don't feel that they are adequately addressed, I don't at all find it problematic that you from this pulpit, in this room have any opinions about it and make some requests to the government to clean it up. I have to say, from my perspective, I'm not just satisfied with the job done in the Oslo police district. I don't see enough presence on the street level, sufficient priority being given to being close to the population, and not least in the most vulnerable urban areas of Oslo in terms of repeat crime. That's why I think it's natural for the Progress Party – which we have actually chosen to do here – to be involved in forming a majority with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, because we also have some opinions about it. Next week, we are going to consider a number of proposals from the Progress Party for which we have also been partly implemented in the Judicial Committee, many of which are being adopted, just about combating recriminalism. But it assumes that on the one hand you have the economic resources to handle it, and on the other hand I feel that we are on the way to a good path in the state budget, with the agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties. In addition, Oslo police districts may need to give a slightly different priority. Maybe they should be more concerned with fighting crime on the street, creating security in the capital and maybe a little less than what is happening today, sitting in an office and doing the job from there. It is about the balance between prevention and, on the one hand, a police force that is present, that can defeat crime, and that can also use the tough instruments, which are absolutely necessary to combat recrimination in the capital. Because it is a reality. We have faced similar challenges in the past in Norway and in the capital, but it was then possible to reverse a trend that was in no way desirable. I don't feel that you can do it today to the same extent. I think that might be a little bit about philosophy, the political philosophy that underlies how Oslo police districts choose to work, and how to choose priorities. Then it is not difficult from the perspective of the Progress Party to give clear and clear signals that, yes, the police must be present, and in particular in the east of Oslo, because it is about the security of the people most, and it is about efforts to combat recrimination. We can never get in the situation that we're getting closer to Swedish states.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e555	This is a matter I have been involved in since around 1990. The police had that time their police station in the Desert, and from the end of the 1980s they had a job going on, which was called the Stovner Model, and contact us politicians in Oslo to get a station at Stovner. Then was the point the police argued with, that they would have presence in an area where there was a good deal of things, and they would also show their presence by building theirs there, moving out of there, etc., and that it would be reassuring to the population. I remember the meetings with policemen who argued for a station at Stovner. We got involved in politics, and it happened -- the station got there. Now, after the police reform, the Manglerud Police Station and the Stovner Police Station are really collapsed in the East Unit. It is a fact that we have to deal with when dealing with this matter. The different teams within the East Unit, whether they're on Manglerud or on the Stoves, are used to interact. They build patrol services together, they investigate together, they interact closely, but they sit in different places. I would like to commend the police for the contact that the police have with us living in the areas – it is good. The station manager at Stovner places great emphasis on setting up city councils, standing up on football matches, being present when things happen around and are very accessible. I want us to bring it with us, that we have a police officer who wants to build a lot of contact. When we heard about this process, there was an initial attempt at contact. I remember the station manager talking, among other things. that if they were to have a common building, he would build police posts in all the districts, so that the police could get a presence of those to be out there, the preventers. There are now 10–12 preventers in each part of the city covered by the East Unit. They have crews who can meet up at local police posts — not just get inside, but meet up in a firm place and get better acquainted with the youth. There was something he aired at the beginning of the process. What happened was a very bad process further by both the police department in Oslo Central and the Police Directorate. When we asked what's going on, what's going on, what's going to happen to the stations in the future, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's So far the answer has been: there are tenders, we don't know, we can't say anything. Then I would like to tell the representative Frölich that I ask you to see this. Although you have a formal location of who has the power to decide this, you are also dependent on listening and having a anchoring and interacting with the population. If not, the basis for taking those decisions centrally in the police department or in the police department in Oslo or at least getting little legitimacy and support. The need for presence is greater and greater, as the representative of Amundsen was involved. I notice the front line between youth groups somewhere and the police – it needs to be built down from both sides. On the one hand, the police have to build it down by being there all the time, even in peacetime when things don't happen – become known, meet up there every day and be by first name. As I have learned, by e.g. The police post at Holmlia, now closed, worked for someone who had been there for 20–30 years, with whom I was often around, and who was on first name with boys until 2011–2012. That means a lot. I am now excited, when you have stopped the tendering process and will start again in the spring of 2021, how to continue the process. I think it's important to interact with the interests I understand that the police have in terms of construction, modern construction, etc., and the need we have for visibility, for the presence of us living in these areas. I hope you can learn from that process now and start it again with blank sheets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e570	The so-called near-police reform, which has taken the police further away from people in the districts, but also in the big cities, must continue. It reported the government earlier in the fall and boasted at the same time that they have achieved their goal of two policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. It has been achieved, among others: through a little creative census, hectic staffing before Christmas and subsequent redundancies after New Year, not to mention that it leads to more and more policemen spending their time on civil tasks. But it's just one of many things that creeps with the so-called near-police reform, and it's the case that's being dealt with in the Storting today, also an expression of. For this reform, the so-called near-police reform, which is a standing joke, the police are leading further away from people, even here in Oslo. Contrary to what is meant by all elected bodies concerned, the police stations at Holmlia and Manglerud are to be merged. It has not been at the hearing, they had agreed on it in the directorate and the Oslo police district and presented it as a final decision to the municipality. Neither the Stortinget, the City Council, the City Council nor the City Council have been asked what they think of this plan. Red has been crystal clear in this matter ever since the beginning. It is a consequence of the centralisation policy adopted by the Stortinget against the will of Red. In Oslo, Red has tried to put this merger at rest, but then the Right, Left and Workers' Party voted against. That the Workers' Party has now turned around, at least halfway in the door, is well and good, and that's the only sensible thing, but the problems don't go away even if today's decisions go through. Because there's a pattern here that gets into, that's worrying, that's about trust in the police, but also about the way the central level overrides local knowledge and competence. The gradual closure of the police where people live, combined with an excessive focus on so-called efficiency and the transfer of resources to central functions, leads to a deterioration in police skills and the ability to work preventively, while also ensuring that the government privatises more and more of the police’s core tasks. This has been alarming policemen on the floor for years. Reports from 2019 show that three out of four policemen say that resource shortages go beyond problem solving. Nearly two out of three policemen say they're going home from work with a bad feeling in the stomach that they haven't done their job well enough. If this evolution that has begun and has accelerated under the prevailing government continues, we can get what we can call American states. Fortunately, we are far away for the time being, because while people in the United States are mobilizing against the police and for so-called ‘defunding’, people in Norway are calling around their neighbourhood police forces and are heading towards the destruction, weakening, collapse and closure of the local police stations – also here in Oslo, where there is mobilization from below against bringing together Manglerud and Holmlia Police Station. Of course, red will support the proposals that are now being adopted by the majority in the European Parliament today, but that is, as I have said, very close enough. In the new year, the report on police reform will be discussed. Then we're going to do what we can to ensure that the many declarations of trust to local police stations around the country are translated into a policy that ensures a current police force of civil character that knows and that can play on teams with the people of the community around it, also in our largest cities. If we are to be able to prevent crime, we must also have a police force that has a strong local grounding, which has good knowledge of local conditions, which in short knows people locally – that is, the opposite of the bourgeois parties and the Labour Party’s so-called "Near Police Reform" – a reform that moves the police out and back into the local communities, be it in the village or city, and thus has local grounding and can be at the head to prevent, rather than the government’s eternal belief in centralisation, centralisation and centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e585	Let me start by saying that I have full confidence that the Oslo police will be able to make the good police decisions, including the office structure in the districts. The Oslo Police Commissioner is dedicated to providing people with a good service throughout the city, and the offer is getting better and better. At the same time, the Oslo police believe that Manglerud and Stovner police stations are not sufficiently suitable for today's police service. When today's rental contracts expire in 2023, it gives the police an opportunity to look at today's office structure, whether it's the best in terms of the services that the citizens of Oslo are going to have. Oslo Police District and the Police Directorate expect co-location to provide a stronger presence, more efficient resource use in the east of Oslo and stronger trade unions. It's also worth mentioning that the Manglerud Police Station is not open to the public. So it's not like one on events is moving out of the police station, but from the crews who are patrolling around the city at any time. Preventive work is also not necessarily done in the office, but by the police looking for the audience, and by having good contact with people and doing out-of-office outreach work among young people and others to prevent and capture things before it happens. As Minister of Justice and Emergency Service, I am committed to ensuring that the police have the best conditions to do the best possible job, while leaving the police to perform the police's duties and assessments. That's your field. Decisions to adapt the provision of services should be made by the police. It is those who have knowledge and insight into how resources should be set up to meet citizens' expectations. The police have determined that a merger will provide a basis for better services. The consequence of requiring further impact assessment will be that today’s competition will have to be halted, potentially leading to both a weakening of the offer and increased costs to the police — resources that should have been used to prevent and detect crime. In fact, I believe that the majority's position on this matter is discouraging. I have now traveled to the police throughout the country, and I am meeting a police officer who wants more space for action, who wants confidence and less detail management. Today, you want to do the opposite. Today, you say you don't have confidence, don't trust the City Council in Oslo, and don't trust the police in Oslo, when you say that you know better in this room, and have better conditions to consider how to make a decision, what it should contain, and even who will take it, or that is. who should not take it – it says the word ‘independent’, so I assume that it is someone other than the police who will make the decision. I've heard someone this year talk about trust reform, it was obviously word without content, and it's discouraging.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e611	I almost get a little bored when the Council of State makes the majority's position as 'demeaning', because I think in this case it is now important to build cooperation, trust and understanding of what is happening. Here, the police have put up a very bad process and just shown that they now have tenders, and they can't say anything about what's going on. And to what the Council of State says that the majority does not trust the City Council: the City Council has not supported this, it is the City Council chairman it is referred to by the police regarding who has supported this. I wish you could now signal a process in which you can build up more cooperation with the population and with those who respond to this. I would like to ask the Council of State: when you are about to start a new tendering process, what are the signals that she will give about how to proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e618	That's going to be what the Storting wants. So when the Stortinget has decided in detail how the police will assess this, who will assess it, and what assessments to make, I have to pass it on – not just to the Oslo police, but to the police throughout the country. That is why this is discouraging. It has not been a bad process. Not everyone agrees with the outcome and the conclusion, but it's like Oslo has a very well-functioning police council. Local politicians in Oslo and the police work very well, and I experience the Oslo police as a spearhead in many of the challenges that we also face in the rest of the country, but as Oslo has much more. So here's a police evaluation to improve the provision of services and to do an even better job. That must be stopped, because here in Stortinget you will decide how this is to be done. I think that's discouraging, and we're not getting away from that. So it's not a bad process, but there's a process that many people disagree with, and if the Storting will decide more on this matter, you can.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e628	I also regard myself as a local politician in Oslo, as the representative of the people of Oslo in these areas, and I have to say that in this case – I have a lot of good contact with the police otherwise – it has been a bad process. To the local authorities it has only been black that they now have a tendering process, and they can't say anything more about where a new police station should be, they can't say anything more about the model. Now, when restarting the process, there is a need to put it up in a more transparent, responsive and inclusive way for all those involved. I think the Council of State should be pleased that there is a great deal of commitment to how the police are going to work, and where the police are going to be in these areas, because it expresses support for the police. So I wish the Council of State could answer how she thinks we can now move forward in order to get a process where you have more transparency for the wishes that are, for example. on local police posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e635	I feel that the representative urges us to agree on this matter. We're deeply in disagreement. I'm going to appeal to the police chief in Oslo the resolution Stortinget takes today, and tell him that it has to be followed – unfortunately. That will be my perception of the situation. Competition is under way, and it seems that there are tenders that have become the problem. It is quite common in all sectors, for the public to get the most – and best possible – back for the money. It is not publicly owned premises that you have today either. The leases are about to go out, you want to find new premises that can better serve the task that the police have. This is a process in which you take action, which details how you want to do it. I think that is discouraging. But it's clear that if the Storting wants to know more about the square meter price and maybe even the address of the new station, you can of course get it. But then one also assumes a great responsibility for making decisions that should have been police professional, and one should have had confidence in the police in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e642	The President does not accept that the representatives leave the pulpit while the Council of State is still talking. And you're actually left with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e647	I saw that Jan Bøhler took a Tybring-Gjede from the pulpit, but I don't know if he gets the same headlines then. The council said the police in Oslo are working well. That might be a good starting point for it to actually work well, but we're not talking about it working well today, we're talking about it going to work well in the future. The council says stronger presence by not being present – the last part of the sentence I added. The fact that there should be a stronger presence was a quote from the pulpit. How does the merger of police stations make the presence stronger? I was just wondering how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e656	What I said about the Oslo police was that they were a spearhead in many areas, and I experience that. Violence in close relationships, gang problems, demonstrations – Oslo has a greater amount of everything that other cities have to a lesser extent. That's why they're a spearhead, to detail it. I heard the representative's party trap say from the pulpit that you should not sit in the office and do police work, you should be out in the streets. And that's exactly what you're going to do. Now you're not going to sit in one office, you're going to sit in two offices, and that's what's the challenge in this case. Of course, office facilities are important, and public intervention is important, but the most important thing is, of course, to be out of touch with the local population. That assessment has been taken by the police, and it is being reviewed here today. I think that is discouraging.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e663	I think it is important, at least for the undersigned, who is the proposer, to stress that this is not about mistrust of the police. We don't put ourselves into concrete building details and that kind of thing. The police will find out for themselves. What we're concerned about here is building trust in the police, and we want to strengthen that confidence also by ensuring that the police engage in dialogue with the population. The fact that there is a majority of the Storing for these plans has been known for a while. It was also out in the media a week and a half ago, or something like that. At the same time, there was a meeting in Stovner Town Council yesterday, where the head and representative of the Oslo Police Department briefed the city council on the closure of the Stovner Police Station and the construction of a new police station. Then I wonder a little. Hasn't the police been informed of any kind of processes in Stortinget? How can a police officer in Oslo have a meeting with a district commission the day before this matter is discussed in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e670	I have no idea what the police in Oslo have received. They're in the middle of a competition. The special thing here is that the police don't do their job, the special thing here is that the Storting says in the middle of a competition that they don't trust – because that's what you say – to the job that's done, and then you give details. If I can read from the proposal for a decision: it should be an analysis, one should review how the bundling will affect the provision of services, and one wants to change the form of political work, methodology and crime prevention work and change in response time. So it's a list, it's a marshall, it's a police evaluation that the Stortinge chooses to do here, in the middle of a competition that's already in progress. These leases expire on date. That's what the Oslo Police have prepared, and they're working on it. It's about the City Council in Oslo, it's about the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Justice, but it's not about the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e679	This part of the proposal concerns that this decision is not linked to a concrete decision-making basis with an impact assessment. The decision of the Grand Duchy today is that when the police are to make structural changes to the city’s population, they must base an impact assessment. A few weeks ago, the Minister of Justice confirmed to me that no impact assessment of these changes has been carried out, but she says that an oral assessment has been made, and that an oral assessment is as good as a written assessment. It is not satisfactory for Stortinget. We want to take responsibility for this. When the police are to reorganize their resources for nearly 300,000 people, we need a written decision-making basis, and that is what is missing in this case. So I have to ask the Minister of Justice again: why is it not a written decision-making basis and an impact assessment that Stortinget could also use in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e688	The answer is simple because we have confidence that the Oslo police have made the necessary assessments. It also has the City Council and the City Council in Oslo. So we have confidence that the political evaluations have been carried out. You don't have that in this room. Then I hear what they say, that you want more detail management, less room for action, less trust – not just in Oslo, it's about the police all over the country. It's a big responsibility to take. All those who have been concerned about and talked about a reform of trust must be mindful. We're going in the opposite direction. I think it is discouraging, but it chooses the Storting to do, and it is a great responsibility to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e695	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e702	I will follow up on the problem that this is not the Stortinges table, which both the Minister of Justice and the representative Frølich took up. Frölich takes up the constitutional aspects of the case, and he believes that this is a kind of procedure for police work, and that we interfere in police decisions. He believes that the poachers are taking over the task of the police. When this is to stop, ask the representative Frølich. The Minister of Justice has similar, slightly indignant considerations — I'm sorry to say so — about what the Storting is doing here. I can see the exact opposite. I believe that Stortinget takes an important responsibility. We are the people's representatives, as the representative Bohemia also expressed it. Here, all concerned urban councils in Oslo have protested against this change, and then it is quite natural that, in a healthy democratic process, we choose to take it up to a higher level. We listen to local democracy and take it that way into the staging room. I think it's a healthy political process. There's nothing wrong with it at all. Yes, it is quite right that the police have the right to do this without the matter having to be dealt with politically, but the question is whether it is a fraud. Is that a trick? Does it build trust and build dialogue with the population when the police implement such a decision without listening to what local politicians think? I think it's a very unwise way of doing things, and I think that the representative Frølich and the Minister of Justice, in their indignation that the Stortinget is interfering with this, makes a serious mistake, because it's absolutely essential that when we're building a police resource in Oslo, we make sure that it's in line with how people feel that the police should be too. Unless otherwise, there should at least be some form of dialogue with people and with political bodies locally. So it's not like we're getting involved in police matters. No, we don't, but we take responsibility and ask for police professional judgements. We have not seen these political assessments. We've just seen claims that this is going to be good. We've seen claims that we're going to save money. We've seen allegations that the police are going to solve their problems. We haven't seen any concrete consequences written down on paper of what this is going to be like in the future. It is not satisfactory for Stortinget. When we are going to deal with and work on how the police are organized for 300,000 people, it is not enough for the police to serve us claims that are not supported in concrete investigations. What the Storting is doing here today is not to control the details, but it is to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e712	I must say I agree with Petter Eide. It's not every time, but this time I do. It's interesting to see, considering a discussion we had about the long-term plan of defense for a while back. Then it was about location and bases and acquisitions. Also the Right was concerned about it. It wasn't like the head of defense had a monopoly on all of this. Then we didn't have to discuss anything, just granted money. That's exactly what our job is – looking at what's going on for the customers. The customers in this case are the ones who live there. It is not the supplier, but the customers and what they are concerned about. Customers are concerned with proximity. Customers are concerned with the security there is that the police are where they live. If you think you can build a giant mastodon and get better police services in Oslo, it's completely meaningless. It also knows the Right, and I can be absolutely sure that the Right is going to turn around in this matter. Finally, at next year's election, the Right is going to go out and say that this is important, we need a near-police, and the local police should be where people are. From the Right's point of view, we could build one police station, a police station in Oslo. At that time they had not got so many offices. Then people could be out driving a police car and being around. That's not how it works! It works out that you have to patrol, you have to be in front when criminal events happen, you have to be there before recriminal crime is there, you get to know those who live there – just as the representative Bøhler, who has a long experience from the Groruddalen, said. He knows this about the body and knows how it's going to work. Then there is no point in discussing and trying to argue with another solution and refer to the police, when you know that there are other challenges in Groruddalen than there are elsewhere. I'm not going to get involved in how the police operate in the districts, but in Oslo, I'm actually getting involved, because that's Oslo I represent. You know that proximity works, and then it's no use standing here on the pulpit and saying that there's more proximity by not being present, as the Council of State actually said from the pulpit. It doesn't happen like that. That's not how it works. This is a matter where the government is going to turn around. I am absolutely sure that we will get a State Council, whether this is the Council of State or someone else, who next year says yes, once the police have got a new investigation, we have come to a different conclusion – instead of saying that it is discouraging that we are standing here doing what is our job, as Petter Eide said. It's our job to stand here and see what's best for customers. The customers are the voters – the people who live in the area. I'm very happy that the government is going to suffer a defeat here, because they're going to turn over in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e725	No one is indignant from this pulpit, but amazement must be allowed. I think there are also many in Police Norway today who are itching in their heads, because we have had a system for a long time. For seven years in the Justice Committee, we have had a system in which the Storting does not interfere with these kinds of decisions. I believe in standing ground that we haven't had one single example that we've crossed the principle line and started to control the police's hand in individual matters. Today, the Storting takes that step across the border. Then it must be allowed to be quite amazed. Petter Eide is right when he says that Stortinget takes responsibility. That's actually exactly what they're doing. They take great responsibility, not in the sense that it is responsible, for it is not at all. This, I think, is one of the most irresponsible things I've ever been to, basically. They take enormous responsibility. They take it away from the police, they take it away from the police chief, and they put it on their own shoulders. Then it becomes interesting to see when the media releases that tenders have been cancelled, claims are coming, compensation is to be paid, and millions on millions who could have gone to police activity in Oslo, have to go out to compensation for private companies. Are the representatives in this room then ready to stand here and answer for it, to stand in the media and answer for it? They're probably not. Then they either run and hide or owe to the government – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e732	Taking responsibility is also taking responsibility for trying to get inclusive processes where people meet, where people listen to the population, and where we try to anchor decisions in a way that avoids major conflicts, great dissatisfaction and unnecessary burdens on the relationship between police and the population. I have to say that if the government and those who support the government in the Stortinget now had read this proposal for a decision, it is designed in such a way that it is possible to add up to a process. There are not absolute points in this proposal for a decision. It is a proposal for a decision that provides opportunities to work in a good way on how to assure yourself, for example: continuous presence in these districts. There's different models of what you could work with, which you add up to at the first point right here. I don't think it's too much of the Storting to expect us to be able to tell the police that we want assurances that there will be a continuous presence in the districts. The same is true of having an impact assessment of a decision – is it so urgent to use such strong words about how discouraging and provocative this is? I just want to keep telling you what the council says about the City Council in Oslo, that the City Council in Oslo has not supported this. It's the mayor it's been pointed to by the police. What I wish for in this is said about presence, is that we think about the experience we now have with how to build trust and proximity to, among other things. youth groups and youth settings in these vulnerable areas. What I've seen, and my experience of it, is that where I've seen that it's been built trust, it's been in periods where we've had policemen who have become well acquainted every day with these young people, who have been in the environment every day. The best example I have of it is what I mentioned instead of a police post that was at Holmlia until 2011/2012, that is, before the most difficult development started out there. One had, among other things: a policeman who had been there for 20 to 30 years, was there every day at work for 20 to 30 years and knew boys in and out. When we were around talking to them, they were talking, greeting and being gentle, no matter what they were driving, and one could easily stop them from getting all the way out to drive. I don't think you have to confuse a police station like this that's open at a center where everyone sees that here's the police, everyone sees that inside he's the policeman with the first name we all know, and he's out with us all the time, with a very, massive office where the police are far away from the area. I've seen this in practice, and I wish you could now have a more open approach to the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e745	The representative Petter Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e750	I'm not going to continue that polemic about whether this is the Big One's task or not. I think it is definitely because here we are taking responsibility for a matter in which we believe that the police have not sufficiently investigated the consequences of their own plans, and that is not satisfactory for responsible politicians. Then I'm glad we get a majority in this case today. I think it expresses a good understanding of how politicians, especially in Oslo, look at this. At the same time, this also expresses our listening to local democracy. All the urban areas affected by this would agree with the majority of the population today. I believe that what we adopt today is going to lead to people in the Grorud valley and in Oslo south, on Holmlia etc., feeling safer, and they'll be very happy that the Storting has actually mixed up in this. I've been out there talking a lot to people, and they think it's very nice that we stop these plans that people feel are quite alien. I am very pleased with the majority we have received today, and thank you especially for the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e776	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e783	The issue we are dealing with today is complex, like most pension matters. What systems we have, and what adjustments this room makes, are of great importance to the individual. The problem raised here by the proposers is the result of the pension reform presented by the proposalers’ own party and the red-green government. The party warned against this reform, and was therefore the only party that voted against it. The reason why the Progress Party voted against was that we thought the reform had more weaknesses, including the underregulation of current pensions, but also that the bulk of the population did not respect the fact that pensions are an individually earned right. Even though the Progress Party voted against, we share some of the intentions of the reform: that we should encourage people to stand longer in work, and that it should pay off longer in work. The matter and the issue we are dealing with now shows that this is not always the case. It is therefore incomprehensible that employees’ organisations themselves chose this model in the 2009 tariff settlement. Regardless of what employee organisations chose in 2009, the Progress Party is more concerned with individuals than with the system. Here is a system that should be changed. The cost of jumping straight at the proposal of the Center Party, which will cost almost 2 billion in the next year. kr, and 12-14 br. However, in the long term, is not a cost that any batches in this room have entered in their budgets. The proposers claim that this will have no cost for the country, and they indicate that the funds have already been paid in. This is a production in which the department disagrees. Regardless of this, funds must actually be allocated to be paid out. However, if the proposers are right, it is strange that they do not today support the proposals of the Progress Party, which will ensure that no one with a gross pension scheme should have less than a guarantee pension than at 67 years of age, even if a chooser is longer at work. If the Central Party and the other parties join this proposal, we will be able to solve this issue. As we also say in our proposal, if this cannot be introduced neutrally, the pension commission's attitude is awaited. The Progress Party chooses to prioritize and strengthen the status of pensioners, as we have really shown through the History of Pensions of the Progress Party in the budgetary agreement with the government, where for the first time we have done something about underregulation, while at the same time getting a significant boost for the country's minimum pensioners. But we're not in it. That is why, together with the Socialist Left Party, we have been promoting a proposal on which the Stortinget is negotiating these days, about a more decent pension system. I bring this to the attention of the Advance Party on the matter. The Progress Party will vote in favour of this and for the Committee's recommendation, which is behind the Progress Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e804	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e809	Thanks to the deputy rapporteur for a good job in a difficult case. It is perceived as reasonably dramatic when it is strongly asserted that the rules of coordination between national and public gross occupational pensions contain a trap that causes workers in the public sector to lose pensions to long-term employment. Thanks also to the Council of State and his employees, who have done a solid job of answering all our questions in a short time and to whom the entire committee has access. In addition, we have received the judgment of the Borgarting Lawyers' Court, where the government received all the support. So we feel reasonably confident that we have thus understood the matter, and that there is no trap that provides a lower pension the longer you are at work. But what we understand is that the legislation is so complicated that some people don't completely overlook the consequences of their own choices. Coordination is in principle simple: there shall be no double pensions. Public service pension is a guarantee of 66 pst. of final earnings in annual pensions. Social security is paid in full and is deducted from the gross occupational pension, minus a certain coordination benefit. This principle continues to apply, but the practical implementation has become more complicated following the pension reform, with the possibility of life expectancy adjustment and the ability to absorb population benefits from 62 years of age and continue to work, including for public employees. Social security has in reality been converted from an annual payment to a pension stock to be allocated from the date of withdrawal to the number of expected remaining years of life. No corresponding change in public service pension was made. It was life-adjusted, but is still an annual gross guarantee of 66 pst. of final wages and salaries, provided that they are fully earned and compensated for living adjustments, not flexible, but only from the day on which they actually leave work. If the coordination deduction were to continue to be equal to the actual annual amount of public benefit paid, the occupational pension would compensate for previous withdrawals of social security. It's not fair to private employees. The Coordination Act was therefore amended to prevent it. The representative proposal will reverse this principle, and I ask for whom? In the Government's response, it is clear that those who are actually in employment after age 67 and beyond are employees with a high salary. They want an additional coordination advantage with the proposal of the Central Party, which no one else can benefit from. It's not fair. The impropriety of the proposal becomes even clearer if we move to the other end of the income scale. In some state budgets, we've increased the minimum pension in popular security. What happens then to those with very low earnings in public service pensions? They're not getting anything. Everything goes to the deduction of the small occupational pension they have. We've got letters from some of them, but they don't have any resource-intensive speakers. There is now a publisher from the SV and the Progress Party that the minimum pension in population protection should be further escalated to the EU poverty line. What happens at the lowest end of the scale? There has been no preliminary sacrifice of a thought – but the Labour Party has at least seen them. The judgment in Borgarting Lawyers' Rights clearly shows that the person who works for a long time and waits to take out popular security gets more than 66 pst. in an annual pension. The one who takes out popular and continues to work gets less, but at the same time has had both retirement and salary for some good years. Nor is it right that the person who works for so long that the people's money alone covers up the gross guarantee, does not get anything left. In fact, throughout his working life he has had cover for possible disability, survivors' rights in the event of death, occupational injury and group life. The proposal from the Central Party is very expensive: $1.8 billion. kr here and now and 12-14 br. kr in the future. The working party will not spend so much money on securing up to 90 pst. of wages and salaries of relatively resourceful public pensioners. We are also giving priority to: increased minimum pension to prevent pensioners from going into negatives when others are going into positives pension from the first crown for private employees, as government employees have always had to ensure that disabled people, who, unlike those we are talking about here, do not have the opportunity to increase their annual pension by being at work for a long time, do not take the disadvantage into account in the ranks of old-age pensioners; Then I take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e845	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e850	This is a complex and demanding matter, both because it deals with a complex complex of cases, and because there is so much disagreement among the members of the Committee – at least among some members of the Committee – about the sense of reality to be taken into account. In this respect, the realities are the same as when the Storting last addressed these issues, in connection with Document 8:46 L for 2018–2019, last spring. The draft representative concentrated on the annual coals between 1944 and 1953 and was extended in this proposal to the annual coals between 1954 and 1996. However, in the case of the case in principle, they are the same as last time, and the right does not share the opinion of the proposers that new information has been introduced in the case that significantly alters the case complex – even less so – since the last time. Rather on the contrary, the time since we last discussed this matter has confirmed the reasons for the majority parties to reject these proposals. In particular, I intend to refer the case to Borgarting Lawyers' Court between a former employee of the State, such as the Senterpartiet, among others. Takes receipts for its view in its observations and the State of the State Pension Fund, where the plaintiff's claim for the law did not appear and all the claims were rejected. So the essence of the matter is whether there is an injustice in today's coordination rules that contains a trap that allows people to be paid something other than what they claim or could reasonably expect. It seems to be a problem in this matter that the proposers mix wrongs, in the meaning of what they themselves think is right according to their own sense of justice, and wrongs in the meaning of whether something is disregarded by the applicable laws and regulations or not. In the 2009 negotiations, the key issue of public service pension was to be re-launched according to the pattern of the new population. The parties said no, for example: because you wanted to continue the AFP as an early retirement. This, together with the rules on the coordination of occupational retirement provision with social security, which came into force from 2011, is the background for the matter under consideration today. At the heart of the arguments put forward by the proposers is the premise that the effects on the age groups concerned by continuing to work after compensating for the standard of living have not been known. That doesn't lead to correctness. When the existing coordination rules were proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government, of which the Centre Party itself was a part, and which the Centre Party voted in favour in the Stortinget, the representatives of the Progress Party pointed out that the occupational pension would be reduced due to the coordination if one continued to work after compensating for the retirement adjustment. The fact that these effects have been too poorly communicated by the employee’s organisations to each employee is likely to be quite correct, but that the political consequences of this have been hidden or unknown simply does not lead to correctness. So the central point in this case is still the same as it was the last time we dealt with these issues. There is no doubt that government employees in the annual budgets covered by this case, who are in employment after 67 years, would have received a higher total pension if the parties in 2009 had agreed to a flexible occupational pension. It is also quite right that, at least for those who are fully covered by the gross scheme, it does not pay to stay longer in employment after 67 years, at least after they have been compensated for the adjustment of their life. However, this does not mean that it is right to go back and change a negotiated agreement ten years after it was concluded. The cost of subsidising early retirementists has already been taken by the country. Going back now and changing what was the compromise the other way, even if you initially wanted another outcome then, would not be right now, either for the sake of the sustainability of the welfare society or for the sake of the workers of today and the future, which in that case are the ones who would have to have taken the bill for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e867	I'm addressing the proposal of the Center Party No. 4, repealing the coordination procedures. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Central Party is voting in a subsidiary way for the Workers' Party's proposal No. 1 and the Centre supports the Workers' Party's proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We do not support the proposals of the Progress Party. There's one last sentence that the representative Meininger Saudland did not refer to, and it's that it's going to happen neutrally, i.e. it assumes that you have to change other parts of the pension agreement, and then change public service pensions for other people. It is not part of this matter. What is at the heart of the matter is that it should also pay to work longer in government for those born between 1944 and 1963. This applies to those who have reached 67 years of age, or 67 years of life-threatening adjustment, depending on the year of birth. These are people who pay more to the government pension funds, but who get less and less back the longer they work beyond 67 years plus. That's the fact of the matter. All the trade unions and pensioners agree on that understanding of reality, and that's the opinion of the Center Party, too, seafaring. A system that is such that the longer one works beyond 67 years plus in the public, the less one gets, must be one of the most absurd things in the world. And that doesn't apply, and I stress it, to those who were born after 1 January 1963 – very interesting. The pension reform supported by the Centre Party shall promote the working line. People and countries serve the work of people. Its longer a worker, within the law's ability to work, the better it is. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the Stortinget's previous decision made a serious error when we got the pension case. The representative Tonning Riise has said it earlier, exactly, from the Right side, that it is an intentional wrong, what is now happening. Right doesn't want to change it and say back here that it's given too much to the early retirementists, and therefore a punishment is going to punish those who work longer. It is up to you -- sorry, the expression. It can't be that those who have gotten too much, if any, are going to be paid because one assumes that people are still working for a long time, and thus provide more. This must be corrected by this proposal by the Central Party. But those are completely different senses of reality. The Workers' Party's Lise Christoffersen does not agree with this, that the longer a worker, the smaller occupational pension gets one, and it gets to be the Workers' Party's problem. This is very complicated, and it is very poorly produced by the government. On page 11 of this configuration, the Central Party has set up a table to show how it works with different departure ages. There is a link, among other things: between today's system and the system of the Central Party representative proposal, and one also sees the consequences of the new system, for those born after 1963. I'm asking people to study that table. These are common people. It is shown by the municipal pension fund figures. There are people who have worked for a long time and meet the main objectives of the pension reform. It is directly untrue that it was part of the agreement with the employees. This is contrary to the agreement. The Public Service Pensions Committee, chaired by Dag Terje Andersen, who gave its opinion on 11 March 2009, presented a solution in line with the proposal of the Centre Party. The information from the department of Stortinget is misleading, cf. § 85 of the Constitution, and there is very poor information for the people affected, when they leave at 67 years of age. Most people have thought it would pay to stay longer in work, and then they experience that they will receive a message from the State pension fund: your supplementary pension is NOK 0 before tax. That's the top of the information. I just want to finish by saying that the money has been paid in. Actuarial calculations are carried out each year. The allocation of the State pension fund is adjusted annually according to the assumptions. Now that we're going to have a back payment from 1 January 2011, we have to get back to that, and that must be done in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e886	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e891	I would like to remind you that a similar representative proposal was discussed in Stortinget on 12 March 2019. The majority then rejected the proposal, in line with the opinion of the Committee. As I see it, the only thing that has been new since then is that Borgarting Lawyers have assessed that the current legislation does not violate any of the fundamental laws, the European Convention on Human Rights or the prohibition of age discrimination. I would like to go to the heart of the proposal for a representative. Is it unreasonable that public employees in the annual budgets of 1943-1962 who work after they have compensated for the effect of living-age adjustment do not receive an increase in the total pension beyond 66 pst.? My short answer to that is no. It is not unreasonable that these annual budgets have a ceiling on total pensions, as this is in line with the gross scheme and what was negotiated with the social partners in 2009. I am referring to the fact that the Committee in its position on the proposal for a representative in 2019 wrote: ‘The Committee points out that the 2009 tariff settlement resulted in a continuation of the gross scheme and a no to flexible occupational retirement provision and a new flexible AFP. One consequence of this is that a non-higher pension than full earnings is earned even if you continue to work.’ I therefore believe that there is no injustice in today's legislation, as the proposers refer to in the proposal for a representative. Overall, I believe it is the wrong priority to give higher pension levels to a small group in the public sector that has the opportunity to work after age 67, and that the cost of over 15 billion. kr shall be covered above the tax return. On the basis of this, I am pleased that, in its setting, the Committee does not propose to support the proposal for a representative. I read out of the setting that there has been a great deal of disagreement within the committee. I respect the fact that we can disagree. However, I find it problematic when what I think is the correct presentation in the matter, is repeatedly presented as intentional faulty by a member of the committee. It is also problematic that in the above-mentioned legal proceedings, witnesses from employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are rendered unpresistant. The majority of the Committee recommends that the Storting should ask the government to carry out legislative changes in order to reduce the requirement for the payment of premiums from the time when individuals have compensated for the adjustment of their life expectancy. I would like to remind you that those who don't have full earnings can get a higher pension even after compensating for the effect of the lifestyle adjustment. Furthermore, among those who end before they have compensated for the effect of living-age adjustment, there will be many who do not receive retirement benefits from the last years of working life. I therefore believe that it is not targeted to link the Member’s premium to whether or not you have compensated for the effect of living age adjustment. I would like to remind you that the pension reform is about making a transition to a more sustainable pension system. In the future, there will be an increasing number of pensioners with higher earnings and living longer. There will be fewer workers behind each pensioner. In practice, there were favourable rules in the old pension system, and the restrictions gradually came from 2011. Younger annual coal will notice to a far greater extent the economic elements of the pension reform than the annual coal covered by this proposal for a representative. We have come to the point where we see the reform work, and public expenditure can be reduced in the long term, but it requires that we stand by the decisions that are taken. I have to admit, I'm a little worried. With proposals for increasing pension costs, we contribute to undermining the entire pension reform. We have adopted a reform, and we owe it to the working and pensioners of future generations to follow the principles we once adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e921	We have received a response to questions from us to the Council of State on the need for appropriations relating to the draft representative: 1.8 billion. kr in the amount after payment from 1 January 2011 and from 12 to 14 billion. kr in future costs. But it is claimed from different teams, and also from the pulpit here, that this money is already spent in the pension funds, so that the proposal can only be implemented without any extra cost, without any fresh funds having to be granted. I could imagine asking the Council of State: can he confirm his calculations and that that money actually has to be granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e926	Yes, I can confirm that, and that is what we have also informed Stortinget about. So if you take the State pension fund, for example, we have a budget of 9.6 billion in the 2021 budget. kr that goes to the State pension fund to cover the expenditure. So there's not a sum of money there ready to do this. That means that if you decide to do this, it will only mean about 1 billion for the State pension fund. NOK in increased expenditure in 2021 because there is a refund that is already to be made. In the future, it will also have to be covered in this way, just for the increasing costs that follow. So I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e931	Several have spoken about, and the Council of State also mentioned the difference between public and private employees in its posts. My question is: is the gross guarantee for the annual coals covered by the proposal similar to that of private sector employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e936	No, some public sector employees had a better early retirement scheme. They have better redundancy, and they have better occupational pensions than most in the private sector. This means that this is a system that gives them the benefits on the one hand, but on the other hand it does not pay the same amount of money to work longer than it has done for the private sector. This is a result of the negotiations that took place in 2009. So there's a difference between this, where they've had better arrangements than the private sector, for example. in the examples I took up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e941	The witness in the trial has been accurately reproduced by us. The Council of State says that there is no injustice in today's law. Very interesting – So the right believes that the coordination cases are not wrong. The Council of State says that it is negotiated with the parties. Every organization denies it. All organisations support the proposal of the Centre Party. The case concerns those born between 1944 and 1963. There are other rules after 1963. Why is it after 1963 that the longer one works within the state's rules, the more one gets into occupational retirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e948	Let me start by saying that when this was negotiated in 2009, I sent it, among other things. Unio out of a press release where they just pointed out that they had got this, that it was more important for the parties to prioritize those who were tired and would leave early retirement than to agree to the rules that the red-green government was trying to get the parties to. Then, in 2018, it was agreed to ensure that longer employment will also be paid in the public sector. If that arrangement had been adopted in 2009, this discussion would not have been necessary, for then those rules would also apply to those who are now covered by what the representative calls a trap but which is actually the result of negotiations. This is what is going to happen in the future, namely that it will pay off to work longer. The difference is that the parties were fully aware of the time they gave priority to those who went off early because they needed it. It's a perfectly honest priority, but it also makes you have costs on one side that have to be covered on the other, and that's why it's like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e955	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e962	The core of this case is a serious unfairness. It's about government employees who continue to work beyond the age of 67. One thing is that one doesn't continue to earn a new pension, but one loses a pension that one has earned, month by month, year by year, until the occupational pension is zeroed out when one is between 72 and 73 years old. To the argument that is led in terms of sustainable pension schemes, and that it is important that we have pension schemes to keep: yes, then maybe one should think that a person focused on the importance of people in work, that a person focused on fewer retirements early on. But instead, one argues harshly against the fact that one should settle for the injustice that exists against some of those who want to stand longer in work, who want to contribute to the community longer. That's what it's all about: government employees who want to contribute to the community, who don't want to retire, but who have felt that it's worth both to themselves and to society that they use their workforce and their skills to work as long as they can. The thanks back is that a loser lost earned pension rights, month by month, year by year, until the public service pension they earned, and as they would have received if they had left at 67 years, is zeroed if they work until 72 or 73 years. That's what's the practical consequence of this case. Then one actually has to take over and take on the serious situation of these age groups, that is, those who were born in 1962 – many who are either on their way towards retirement, or who are already in retirement, and are in a situation where they are going to consider: am I going to lose my pension, or am I going to, if I have the opportunity, continue to work? So the answer is, no, it'll be better if you stop working, because then you won't lose your pension. This is not something that people have been aware of, something that has come as a surprise to people. And it's very understandable that it's come as a surprise, because of course it's grossly unreasonable. Now Stortinget has once again been given the opportunity to clean this up. It is the Storting that is responsible for how a benefit exists between different pensioners and different groups in society. I record that the majority is still not willing to clean up the gross injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e973	The representative, Lundtigen, has insisted that, during the debate on 12 March last, when we last debated the matter, I used the term ‘intentional injustice’. That's right, but it would be misleading if it could stand as some income in support of Lundtigen's understanding of this matter, so then I'm going to go to some pretentious step to quote myself, so you get the full context: ‘The essence of this case is that the injustice that prevails, if any, is traced back to negotiated agreements between the social partners. In that case, it is a deliberate wrong in the sense that someone has been given priority in the negotiations, while others have been given priority. In this case, those who left the job at 62 years of age and did not pay for previous withdrawals in the form of a lower annual pension were prioritised, while those who are in employment at 67 years of age were prioritised by not obtaining any gain in the form of an increased annual pension after compensating for the retirement adjustment in the occupational pension.» So what I meant to say with that statement was simply that the parties chose to give priority to someone away, and that I have a lot of understanding that the age group that wanted to be more at work, which was prioritised by the parties in the negotiations, felt that it was unfair. And yes, I agree that it was a bad priority to choose the subsidisation of early retirementists at the expense of those who wanted to stay longer in work, but that is not what we are discussing today. The question now is whether we should change a priority that was made in the negotiations between the parties ten years ago, and refund money to those who got less because of the priority at the time, based on what they would have received if they had prioritised something else at the time. I don't think we can do that. It would not at least give us any fundamental complications. What about all those in the same age group who left the pension when they did it as a consequence of these negotiations, precisely because they knew they wouldn't get any reward by standing longer in the job? Would they not then rightly be able to apply the same logic and demand that they also receive a refund as they would, of course, have been longer in the job if they had adopted something else at the time? Retirement negotiations are complex because decisions are taken, necessarily have implications well in advance. It is wise to learn from past bad priorities, or arrangements that are no longer suitable for today's situation, and that is what we have done. After all, a new public service pension is a consequence of that. But it's something other than changing an old priority you're now dissatisfied with, with retroactive force.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e987	I'm going to try not to help prolong the debate unnecessarily, but it's said here that there's a gross unfairness we're facing, people in the public sector are losing pensions for every year one continues to work. That's a statement that's not correct. If we look at the opinion from Borgarting, the case that has been tested there: the person took out 100 pst. Population welfare at the age of 67, then continued in work five more years, until the age of 72, and from that time on, the total annual pension was 52 p.m. of the final salary. But then he had five years of pay and popular security. If he had waited and taken out both pensions at 67 years, the total annual pension would be 69 pst. of the final salary. If he had waited to withdraw both pensions until he actually died at the age of 72, he would have received a total annual pension of 74 pst. of the final salary. Everything would have come from Social Security, but it probably doesn't matter, one crown is a penny into the account, and one crown is probably not worse than the other. So it pays off in the form of an annual pension to be in work for a long time. But you can also help to reduce that benefit by choosing at the same time to take out popular security. It is said here that the so-called trap does not apply to those who were born in 1963 and later. That is quite right, and it was said that they will get more in occupational retirement by standing for a long time. But they also have to take the consequences of taking out popular security while they are still working, in terms of lower annual pensions when they stop working compared to what they would have gotten by waiting to take out popular security until they actually stop working. So the Labour Party, as I said in my first post, understands that this can be a little complicated. The suggestions I made are kind of an attempt to stretch out a hand. Firstly, I stress that good information is important. We have also looked at the corona situation now and said that such a rule of law, exception, should really be permanent, in case it is also needed at another time. And then we're in the setting, where we're asking the government to investigate a reduced demand for payment, or look at how one can somehow come up with it a little bit by strengthening the line of work for government employees who were born in 1944-1962.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e997	The government's obligation to provide information under the Basic Law is the first paragraph of Section 82 and not Section 85, as I said in my first post. So then I've got it corrected. The case concerns occupational pension, and it is quite strong to hear from the representative of the Workers' Party here that one gets his entire pension from popular security when one is in work for a long time, and nothing from occupational retirement is okay. What's been at the heart of being a public employee is that you've had a good occupational pension. The fact that the payments of the people's money are increasing further is a waiter to take it out, is quite natural after the new reform. That's the way the reform is built up. And then it's going to lead to the loss of government employees' occupational pensions. I have paid in large amounts, and the employer has paid in huge amounts. It's hard to hear. To the representative Toning Riise: It’s great that you referred your entire article. The right accepts that it is an intentional wrong, and it is in the Right's view an intentional wrong that the organisations have committed, and since the organisations have done so in an agreement with the state, it is the Storting's duty to follow it up. It's not like that. Negotiations between the parties that have implications for the State budget are to be seen as preparations for the treatment of the Storting, and it is The Stortinge that is the boss. And the Storting has made a mistake. The right recognizes that it is an intentional wrong and will not correct it. The working party says that there is no wrong even. The center party said that there was a mistake – we fixed the error. What the Center Party stands for here has positive societal effects. It's completely in line with everything we say in every respect, that within the rules of employment law, it's an advantage for people and for the country that a job is as far as possible, but not for those born between 1944 and 1963 – understand what they want! It's really unreal that we're in this situation. And as if that should not be the top, I have here the consultation note of 3 December 2020 sent by the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs, with the consultation deadline of 28 February 2021, entitled ‘Proposals for legislative changes to increase the general age limit in the country from 70 to 72 years’. If one is 72 years old and born in 1963, this has an effect from 2035. So the government wants the trap to apply in the future, while giving the impression that it pays to stay longer in the job. It's totally unreal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1010	There is a lot that is unreal in this debate, so that's why I don't really intend to comment on so much of the content of the matter, as I think it has been well explained. But what I want to comment on are language usage, claims, and the content of the comments from the Center Party. The reason for this is that we know that our proceedings and remarks are being interpreted and written in history, which in fact means that we have rounds of answers so that claims are not to be undisputed. But sometimes these don't extend. It is claimed, inter alia, that: that the then government of Stoltenberg, of which the Central Party was a part, instructed the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to design the coordination law in order to establish a coordination area in which thousands of public servants could go, in order to force the social partners to enter into new negotiations. I quote from the comments of the Center Party: ‘The staff of the Ministry were therefore required to draw up the proposals for the Coordination Act in order to establish the coordination body.’ In other words, the Stoltenberg government must have a special-design penalty for changing the AFP scheme in the public sector. The observations refer to statements of witness in the legal proceedings in which a former State employee filed an action against the State on the precisely coordination case and where all claims were rejected by the Lawyer’s Court. Furthermore, it is described as ‘unheard’ to accuse the social organisations of failing their members. No, the social organisations are not accused of failing their members – that is the representative of the word of the Central Party. What is unheard of, on the other hand, is that the comments consistently mention information in the matter as false, false, deliberately misleading, as serious misinformation and as outright and gross injustice. The government parties are used to tough debates in this committee, and I believe that historians will have challenges in realising themselves if they read the minutes. But that's not why I'm responding. Earlier today, we received a petition and heard an appeal from someone representing the minority who has been in the labour market under the coordination rules, and mentioned this on posters such as theft and ran. I understand that they are angry and frustrated, but the Stortinget and the Center Party knew what they were doing when the coordination rules were adopted as a transition to a new pension system where it pays to get on with work. Then I believe that in that case it is unheard of by a party and a representative to throw blues in the eyes of a small group who think they are fighting a battle that can be won, and encouraged by this language and approach to continue using their own resources through the judiciary. Their minds should be directed at those who seduce them into believing that a different outcome from that of the case here today is possible. Then I have not intended to go into a further polemic discussion on the content of the position, but will refer to the comments of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right for a reality orientation on why this matter is not being given a majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1030	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1035	I agree that this is a special setting. The reason is that there is a completely different understanding of the reality of what is the consequences of the decision that has been taken in the past. The Labour Party denies the consequence, the Right says that it is an intentional wrong, and it is the organisations that are responsible for it. The Government of Stoltenberg has been informed of its work in the legal proceedings, with evidence in the legal proceedings, and it is from persons who have been or have been employed in the ministry. That's very interesting. The centre party was wrong when we made decisions here in its time. We're correcting the errors, and we're demonstrating to you which error information has been given. I await concrete confirmation of what is wrong with our comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1044	For the Labour Party, the representative Lise Christoffersen has presented our positions in this matter in an excellent way, but there is nevertheless reason to note two things. The first is that the representative Lundtigen, both in the position and in the debate here now, refers to the fact that Minister of Labour Dag Terje Andersen negotiated a different system of coordination. That's right, it was done. But what happened afterwards was not illuminated here, because afterwards the organisations said no to the arrangement that was submitted. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary to establish coordination rules other than those negotiated. The other thing I see that I have reason to point out, and that we should remind each other, is that in the state – i.e. in the gross-budget enterprises in the state, which are the vast majority – no money has been paid to the State pension fund at any time before 2015. Then the government of Solberg made a change where 7,7 billion was granted. kr to departments, directorates and the like, which were paid to the State pension fund in order to make the pension costs of those activities visible. But at that time both the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and to the extent SV, opposed it, and we actually voted against it. Therefore, at least we cannot say that there is a particular amount of money paid to the pension funds, which are the State pension fund. The payments made are made after 2016. So there's little money lying there. So the statement that Lundtägen makes does not lead to correctness for the large part of the country that is grossly financed, and that's the largest part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1055	I record that a good part of the debate from individual parties is about what was meant, that it was an intention to do what was done back in 2009 and a decade ago. We may have a discussion about that, but what's most important to us as elected representatives of the Grand Duchy is that when we see that the consequence of decisions that are made is wrong, it becomes unreasonable, it becomes clearly unreasonable for certain groups, then we try to clean up. That is what we are doing in the field by means of new political decisions, if there is political will to clean up in order to ensure justice between different groups. What is the reasonableness that because one is born in some particular year's coal, one should experience the unreasonableness that if one is longer in work, one loses a public service pension one has earned, day by day, year by year? To the representative of Christoffersen, who spoke about the percentage payment year by year: Yes, when the population is a stock, it is right that the longer one waits to withdraw the pension there, the more a few will in annual payment, but one does not get out any more collectively for that reason. The problem is that the occupational pension you have earned from your job will be a loss. This is clearly documented in the case, and that is what the representative from the Workers' Party says, along with the majority of the population, is fine. The centre party disagrees with that. We don't think that's right for those age groups. If, on the other hand, one is so lucky that one is born after 1963, one has not the same effect. Then the system should be different. We have to try to clean up, so that we can also take care of the age groups that are here, that are born in the mid-1940s and to the beginning of the 1960s. It is both fully manageable and clearly reasonable that it is done. One talks about the laborers, that one should take care of the laborers, one should take care of those who want to contribute to society. Here are some of the people who are really struggling in Norwegian society, who are in work until they're in the late '60s, some of them until they're well out in the '70s, and then thank you again for being taken from public service pension you've earned. It is grossly unreasonable and deeply regrettable that it is not cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1064	Let me start by saying that there has been a trend that I think we could almost predict when the pension reform was adopted, that as it begins to work and we see the consequences of many of the decisions, there are several new discussions coming up. I think it's completely legitimate. It is absolutely legitimate to discuss what is the outcome for different groups, in a difficult reform that is so important. However, it has also led to a political discussion in Norway about the fact that it is about telling you that you were not in favour of the pension reform. I can only say, as a representative of the Right Party, that I believe that the parties behind it should be very proud of one of the most important welfare reforms this country has adopted – that we get sustainability in our pension system, and that we can see our children and grandchildren in the eyes and say that they too are going to have a safe pension. Then I need simply to defend the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This is the country's most competent pensioner. They are a great advantage to the government, but also to the Stortinget, and I believe the answers they have given to the Stortinget through the Council of State, of course, show that they are very competent. They don't let themselves be instructed that way. It is quite important to remember that, because what has been brought forward in the trial, and which has also been the testimony of current and former employees in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is actually a matter of course, namely that there were clear political signals from the political leadership at that time that if you were to have good benefits for early retirement, it would have to be reflected in a different way, simply because the whole of this reform I was talking about at the beginning, which is so important, should go up. It's quite important for me to say that, because the environment, those who work in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has very high levels of integrity. They would never let themselves be instructed in this way, but they are, of course, taking political signals that are about the reform to be made, also going up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1075	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1080	It was just a small comment on Gegelsvik's last article. When I heard Gülsvik's speech, I understand where the reasoning for the Center Party ends a little bit. Reciprocal evidence combined what is actually the annual guarantee of a gross occupational pension scheme, namely an annual pension paid, with the loss of a pension over the life cycle, which he compared with. It's something completely different. So said Gülsvik also the laborers. I don't want to call the groups we're talking about here, the laborers. The wearers in the public sector are well cared for. They can take out the AFP from 62 years without losing in future retirement. And then I haven't yet received a response from the Center Party if they worry about them with small occupational pensions, which are getting an increase in the minimum pension and getting it coordinated away. The Center Party has not said anything about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1089	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1094	To the representative of Christoffersen: Continued is the effect of the Centre Party documenting this case if one continues to work after age 67, given the service pension that one has earned at age 67: If one continues to work after age 67, a loss of the public service pension earned – day by day, year by year – will occur until it is zero at the age of 72 to 73. Yes, I called some of the people who stand so long at work, to the weary. It may have been the wrong use of words based on the Workers' Party definition. But I actually think it's important to value people who want to be in work for so long, and that's an important value also in view of future generations. The effect continues to be what the Centre Party documents in this case if one continues to work after the age of 67, given the service pension that one has earned at the age of 67: if one continues to work after the age of 67, a loss of the public service pension earned – day by day, year by year – will occur until it is zero at the age of 72 to 73 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1104	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1121	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1128	First of all, let me regret that I have some relief in the suit. This is due to rapid progress on the agenda, and that I thought I was not given the time to get on my tie. But I should know my co-representatives well enough to know that I would have had time for that. Today, we are addressing an important step on the way to an agreement that includes a new coastal state. Initially, on behalf of the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Economic and Social Committee for its cooperation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. This has led to a unanimous setting. Paragraph 2 of the Marine Resource Act states clearly that ‘the wild marine resources are in the Norwegian community’. It is equally clear that most of our large fishing resources belong to several communities. That is why we depend on cooperation and clear relations with coastal states on good management and allocation of resources. The issue under consideration today is in many ways the driving rules for these processes, i.e. fisheries negotiations between Norway and the United Kingdom. Our two countries have a long tradition of constructive and peaceful cooperation, at least since Terje Vigen left his captivity. This agreement also expresses agreement on the central administrative principle and an orderly approach to addressing the common challenges that the management of marine resources gives us. Therefore, it is a fundamental principle in this agreement that the long-term, sustainable management and precautionary principle should be applied. This may seem obvious, but today this is being challenged by coastal states, for example. as regards the management of herring and mackerel. The situation regarding these species underlines the importance of having common driving rules and principles. The Committee has chosen to stress that it would also make sense to modernise the EU-Agreement Mechanism in line with the same principles and to meet such a process. It may be tempting to discuss what the concrete allocation of resources will be like. We don't want to go into that discussion right now. It belongs in a different context. We trust that this debate will be conducted in line with the important Norwegian interests in this area. Even in the Bible was a busy allocation of fish resources, but where the Master of Nazareth, with his consequence of trusted fishermen from Galilee, could get five loaves and two fishes to stretch to 5,000, we must accept that in this case there is a zero sum game, where more to some means less to others. It is therefore important that we now have a good framework in place to implement these difficult and challenging negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1147	I stand here with mountain boots, because I also got a call on short notice since it was rapid progress. The United Kingdom will become an important independent fishing nation after the transitional period with the EU expires on 31 December this year. From the new year onwards, the country will be able to act as an autonomous coastal state. Since they are one of our closest neighbours, it is important that we establish good and close cooperation with the United Kingdom. The cooperation climate during the negotiation period, despite a lot of digital negotiations and corona, has been open, positive and marked by a willingness to reach agreement. This promises to achieve a well-functioning bilateral fisheries cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom. Norway and the United Kingdom agree to establish cooperation on control, licensing and research, which are key elements of good and sustainable fisheries management. Furthermore, the framework agreement allows us to enter into an agreement on zone access and quota exchange, so that Norwegian and British fishermen can maintain activity. However, this is a question that we agree on in annual, separate agreements. It is therefore premature to say something about how any allowance exchange and access agreement might look. These are complicated questions, but in the light of the cooperation already established in this area between Norway and the United Kingdom, I am positive and optimistic that we will find good agreements on these issues as well. Other parts of fisheries cooperation will need to be regulated by a separate tripartite agreement between Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom, as well as a bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU. Today, North Sea cooperation is regulated by a 1980 framework agreement between Norway and the EU. For a longer time, Norway has been calling for speedy implementation of a tripartite agreement, and on our side, it is desirable that this should start as soon as the situation between the EU and the United Kingdom is resolved. While we are committed to establishing new agreements, we are also committed to ensuring fisheries cooperation with the EU. That is why I am very pleased that the European Commission and the Ministry have reached an agreement through correspondence to start negotiations on a new framework as early as next year. This will replace the 1980 agreement. Fisheries must be managed in a sustainable manner. It is therefore important that we ensure through fisheries agreements that stocks are managed in line with modern and up-to-date principles of fisheries management. Finally, I find it natural to mention that the negotiations with the EU and the United Kingdom on fisheries agreements for 2021 have been severely delayed, due to the delays in the Brexit negotiations between the two and the place of fisheries in this. This means that the negotiations have not been concluded before the end of the year, and it is important to be told that if we do not have agreements on 1 January, we will not open Norway’s economic zone for fishing by EU and UK vessels. Nor can we expect Norwegian vessels to have access to their zones until there are agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1168	The President will note that she is well pleased that the two speakers have done very well both with rock boots and without tie, but she is also very pleased that you are familiar with the correct suit. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1175	I have also dressed myself today – hope it has been reasonably done. My question is more superior. When we get a situation where Norway is going from negotiating with the EU to negotiating with the EU and the United Kingdom, what is the Council of State's assessment of what it means for the action space of Norway and the possibilities Norway has to gain from the issues that are important to us? Will it be easier to negotiate with two parties, or will it be more demanding than if we only had the EU block to negotiate with?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1182	We're going to be careful to anticipate the events. If we're going to use logic, it's going to be harder – the more people are involved and the dealer, the more complicated it can be. These are complicated negotiations. But I note that at least we have established a good foundation for fisheries agreements with the United Kingdom, with important principles that Norway has long tried to achieve, which are about sustainable management. We have now reached an agreement with the EU that we should start negotiating after the end of the year with regard to the 1980 agreements, which need to be updated and improved on behalf of Norway. We have good faith that we will be able to achieve a satisfactory agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1187	At the end of the article, reference was made to a situation where one – and most likely one – did not get an agreement from the turn of the year. In practice for Norwegian fishing and the Norwegian fishing industry: What kind of assessment does the Council of State make of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1192	We had a similar situation in 2014 and found good solutions to it then. This means, in practice, that Norwegian fishermen can start fishing largely as before, because they start mainly in Norwegian waters during the early part of the year. So we think we need to find good solutions to that. But for a long time we have taken initiatives towards the European Union to get trilateral agreements under way. The play is actually at the EU's disposal to meet us. Then it is important that we state that if we do not reach a tripartite agreement, there will also be no access to Norwegian waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1197	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox The size will now take a break, as informed at the beginning of the meeting, and there will be a call to voting at 4 p.m. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1228	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. We start by voting on the remaining issues on yesterday's agenda, case No. 9-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1240	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–7, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a sufficient number of nurses and health professionals are trained to increase intensive capacity throughout the country and that provision is better made for full courses of Bachelor’s and Master’s courses for specialised nurses.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national survey and an obligatory escalation plan for specialised nurses and doctors specialising in intensive medicine and other intensive health professionals.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to increase the intensive capacity in Norway and to make demands for intensive capacity at HF level and RHF level to ensure preparedness in the normal situation and in the event of future pandemics and other health crises, and to inform the size appropriately.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to review the funding mechanism for hospitals and to ensure that it does not provide incentives to reduce intensive capacity.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the ability to increase intensive capacity rapidly to be included in the evaluation for the inclusion of new hospital buildings.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to ensure up-to-date and accessible information on national intensive capacity and preparedness, and that the Stortinge receives an appropriate update on this issue annually.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the uniform organisation of intensive medicine in Norwegian hospitals, taking into account local geography and weather conditions, in order to ensure patient safety, uniform guidelines, coordinated professional development and coordinated research activity, and to return to Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1292	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1297	It'll be corrected. Then there are 46 votes against the proposal of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party and 41 votes in favour. The proposal is therefore rejected. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1309	The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the suspension. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1330	During the debate, a proposal by Kjersti Toppe, on behalf of the Central Party, was put forward, in addition to the proposal by the representatives of the Progressive Party. The proposal of the representative shall read as follows: The size calls on the government to equalise immediately the rules for the protection of infection of fixed benches and chairs in churches and other assembly rooms as long as other rules on the protection of infection are complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1339	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1351	There is a vote on proposal No. One from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess whether churches and other facilities used for funerals may be approved for up to 200 persons if they are authorised by local infectious diseases authorities and otherwise they are subject to the applicable rules on infectious diseases.’ The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1375	During the debate, Lars Haltbrecken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an independent review of the environmental and health consequences of Equinor’s investment in the United States and other countries and returns to Stortinget with the case before the summer of 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1418	The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1437	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Advance Party proposal No 3, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no loss limits are imposed on gambling in Norsk Rikstototo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1464	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to wait until loss limits are introduced after the size has been properly informed if it is possible to introduce an additional individualisation of the loss limits within the framework of socially responsible games.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1481	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:126 S [[2019-2020]] The Left and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1523	It shall be added to III and IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1537	It is voted on over I and II. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1551	It is then voted over the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1560	Case No. 1–8 was the second reading of the laws and concerns the legislative decisions of 25 to 32. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1804	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1876	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1911	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e1921	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2017	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2027	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2074	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2084	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2096	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2112	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2131	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 3, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the Coordination Act I [[repeal of the so-called coordination trap]] In Law 6 July 1957 No. 26 on the coordination of pension and social security benefits is amended as follows: § 24 nr. the third paragraph is replaced by the following: If the occupational pension is taken out after the age of 67, the ratio is used at the time of withdrawal. This also applies if a full or partial old-age pension has been taken out of the population’s pension at an earlier date. However, a ratio of not less than 1000 shall be used for the calculation of the coordination deductions. Paragraph 24(a) 3 is replaced by the following: The coordination deduction is determined by dividing the stock of coordination by a split set out in Sections 20-13 of the Swedish Social Security Act. If the occupational pension is paid before or at the age of 67, the split figure is taken into account at the age of 67. If the occupational pension is payable after the age of 67, the split figure is used at the time of withdrawal. However, a split figure lower than 13,42 shall not be used for the calculation of the coordination deduction. II The Act shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 2011.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2184	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2189	It'll be corrected. Then 70 votes have been cast against the proposal of the Central Party and 16 votes in favour. The proposal has thus been rejected. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that no person with a gross pension scheme shall have less than a guarantee pension than at 67 years of age, even if he chooses to continue working. It is assumed that this can be introduced neutrally. If this is not possible, the pension agency’s suspension shall be awaited.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2206	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that persons covered by the current gross government pension scheme receive good information on the overall impact of the total annual pension by different combinations of withdrawals of social security pension and public service pension.»; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2225	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the current rules for the re-calculation of occupational pensions for pensioners who re-enter the public sector for a period of time, in order to ensure that short periods of work or small positions in situations where critical or important social functions need to be performed do not lead to an unreasonable reduction of occupational pension when he resumes the withdrawal of occupational pension.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2255	Behind this is the Workers Party and the Progress Party. The Green and Red Party has announced support for the suspension and the Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support. The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2278	Behind this is the Workers Party and the Progress Party. The Green Party has announced support for the suspension, and the Centre Party has announced subsidiary aid. Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2301	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-11.ana.ud277e2368	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
