ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e88	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, is proposed to meet under the remainder of the authorised medical leave granted by Une Bastholm. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Per Espen Stoknes is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e105	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to strengthen and improve the protection system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e110	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e115	On behalf of the representatives of Espen Barth Eide, Eigil Knutsen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to introduce a better target for a green, smart and innovative Norway in line with the OECD Green Growth Indicator Set. Secondly, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on a protection process for selected sacred mountains in Sami culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e122	The representative, Arne Nävra, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e127	Then I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative – a long-awaited proposal – from the representatives of Karin Andersen, Nicholas Wilkinson, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself on the lifting of health certification requirements for driving licences for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e132	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e152	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e159	First, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party alone or with other parties is promoting in this setting. The case concerns changes in the Swedish Social Security Act, survivors' benefits. The most important is what is commonly called widow's pension, which was introduced in 1964. The proposals relate to the benefit of the people's rights to the survivors. The government is following up the Committee's investigation, NOU 2017: 3 Survivors' benefits of public interest – Reform proposals. Rehabilitation of survivors' benefits is part of the pension reform. Survivors’ benefits include retirement or transitional benefit for survivors under 67 years of age, survivors’ benefits, an increase in the old age pension as a result of special rules for calculating the old-age pension for survivors, a survivor’s allowance for a new old-age pension, a survivor’s allowance and a temporary allowance for a new disability pension and benefits for former family care providers. The majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the SV, points out that the benefits have remained largely unchanged since the adoption of the new People's Security Act with Prime Minister Per Brenten and the Christian People's Party Social Minister Egil Aarvik in 1966 with effect from 1 January 1967. This was a very important reform. The 1966 Act incorporated prior benefits under its own laws. At the same time, the law and benefits were extended to all born in the country, have citizenship or have enough residence. Certain minimum performances were ensured for these groups, while maximum performances were calculated by a scoring system based on the number of years of work up to the age of 40. This was a legendary welfare reform, which provided not least greater financial security for the thousands of workers who had not had high labour incomes through a long working life. The current allocation principles underpinning the design of the survivors' benefits aim to ensure income from the loss of dependants and to reward unpaid unpaid care for children and nursing and work at home. The device is built on the household as a unit. Based on the study carried out by the Leaven Committee, expenditure per person in a household increases when the partner dies, and is reduced as a share of expenditure. For the Centre Party, this is a seaworthy reasoning, which we have with us on all matters relating to the measurement of necessary welfare insurance schemes. The centre party therefore advocates that the targeting of welfare policy benefits should be strengthened so that the original intention of publicly funded welfare benefits can be continued. Survivors are closely linked to their ability to compete for reasonably well-paid work in the workplace. Uncontrolled labour immigration from EU countries outside the Nordic region has made this much more difficult. The government proposes that children who lose one parent or both parents before they reach the age of 18 receive a reinforced child pension. An overall committee supports it – yes, more than that. An overall committee is in favour of child-retirement until the age of 20, regardless of education, and that shall also apply when one of the parents is dead. The Committee is deeply divided elsewhere. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose that the government retain the supplementary pension scheme for the survivors, i.e. the one-off pension. The centre party and SV do not support government's legislative proposals on tightening up, which means that many survivors' benefits are removed and replaced by temporary conversion benefits or gradually reduced by non-price adjustments. The benefits must be better targeted by strengthening the social distribution profile, for example. for minimum pensioners where one dies. The central party, the Workers' Party and SV ask the government to return to Stortinget with the necessary legal changes to ensure that the rights of the survivors under 67 years are maintained as today. The same batches disagree with the government's assumption that surviving retirement pensioners have earned their own pension or wealth, so that future survivors' pensioners with a new retirement pension do not reasonably need government survivors' benefits. For the Centre Party, the requested survivors’ benefits are a safety net for those persons who do not meet the government’s assumption of good supplementary pensions and safe assets. This applies far from all of them. These people must feel the security of society. The Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV therefore propose that the government return to the Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes to ensure that today's rights to survivors of old age pensioners are maintained in the rules on new retirement pension from popular security. It must also apply to the survivors. Finally, the government has made calculations to save 1.7 billion dollars. kr per year for the period 2023 to 2060. The amendments shall be initiated at the earliest from 2023. Therefore, there is a basis and opportunity to change what the government is now proposing, if it is willing to do so at the next majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e184	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e189	First of all, thank you to the case rapporteur for contributing to the fact that the Committee has actually managed to get a complicated case with many aspects through very short deadlines, so short that the opposition finds it at the limit of the irresponsible. After all, we talk about the basis of life of people who suddenly experience life being turned down from one day to the next, when life’s companion or parent dies. The Labour Party has dealt with the matter along two lines, possible dialogue with other parties, for which we are always open, but primarily on the basis of what this matter is really about. For the government parties and the Progress Party, it is about new cuts in social benefits, as they have been doing since 2013. For the Workers' Party, the matter is about two things, primarily about social justice, that people's fear is there when life becomes difficult, but there is also a question of equality between men and women. Lack of equality between men and women in working life lasts for life, as it also leads to differences in pensions. To start with the discussion of the matter, the Labour Party received an invitation to discuss the matter with the government. In the pension agreement, it was also provided that the rules on survivors' pensions were to be assessed when a new pension scheme was in place. But the majority of the committee decided, to protest from the opposition, that the matter should be run through at speed, and then there was no time for that kind of conversation. The Labour Party lives well with it, but it could seem that consultation across the board could play a role for the survivors, that it would have been possible to get less drastic cuts than the right parties are going to adopt here today. So to the very thing: we are voting against the government's proposal to liquidate the succession rights in the people's peace. The reason given by the government is that social security rights should be individual. In principle, this may be right, but in practice, there is still a piece between life and learning. Still, women work more part-time, earn less and save less for their own pensions. Differences are greatest in the private sector. The Workers' Party's proposal for a pension from the first crown would have contributed something there, but we haven't been able to get a majority for that. In general, there are women who provide unpaid care for their loved ones. The rules on survivors' rights in social security are initially gender-neutral, but they primarily apply as income protection for women and children. We're talking about four groups -- the first one is left under 67 years old, 90 pst. Of them, women, 65 pst. Of them again are over 55 years of age. It's been halved since 1967 and it's still going down. Of family caregivers, there's almost no one left. The second group is survivors of an old age pensioner. We're talking about 120,000 pensioners with bad advice. 95 pst. Of them, women. The number is starting to decrease, even in this group. Then we have the third: left behind. There aren't many people who have an addition that's still alive, just 5,700 people. The reason for the decrease in the number of survivors’ entitlements is that the benefit is curtailed against own income from work or retirement. As gender equality increases in the labour market, most women have their own income and pension entitlements, but, as I said, they are still left for full equality. There is also a reason why the vast majority of beneficiaries of survivors’ rights are women. Women earn less than men. Women have lower pensions than men. Survivors are more likely to find themselves in a more difficult economic situation than abandoned men. In addition, women live longer than men and are more likely to be left behind initially. Instead of taking the pension from women with poor advice, the Labour Party will instead target public efforts towards increasing equality in society. If we succeed in that, the payments to the survivors will be gone by themselves. But we're still not there that there's real equality between men and women in the workplace. That means that removing the survivors' rights will have an equal impact side. However, we support the government's proposal for improvements in child pensions, as the rapporteur pointed out, but with the difference that it should apply to 20 years instead of 18. It's the whole committee. I think the case rapporteur might have done that, but for safety reasons, I take up the proposals that the Workers' Party is behind, where we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with legislative proposals to ensure that the rights of leave in the social security continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e210	The President can assure you that those proposals have already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e215	The overall objectives of the pension reform are to make the pension system of the people's pension system more economically sustainable and stimulate high levels of professional participation, but one of the central objectives of the population's return is to ensure income for those who, for various reasons, cannot provide themselves with their own income. It is therefore important that the conversion of survivors' benefits takes account of social developments, for example: the participation of women in employment, but at the same time ensures that those who, in spite of this, cannot be expected to depend on their own income. For the Right, this is about strengthening the ability of individuals to support themselves. That's why we're doing the changes. Therefore, it is also important and right to strengthen the performance of children who have lost parents but to make changes that help to strengthen their ability to support themselves, to support the work line and to improve the sustainability of welfare systems. When widow's or survivors' pensions were introduced in 1964, benefits were justified by the fact that women were usually provided by their husband and had few opportunities in the workplace. Therefore, the changes in current long-term benefits to survivors will apply to those born after 1971, i.e. my generation, a generation that has mainly participated in the labour market and had its own pension income. For women my age who lose their dependants today, a lifelong survivor's pension could lead straight into the minimum pension. Survivors are, in other words, being led into poverty, which definitely gives an equal impact. That is why it is better in the long term and provides better opportunities for a self-sufficient life with better financial space to help convert to self-sufficiency. The conversion aid shall be granted for up to three years, with the possibility of up to two additional years when the survivor needs training or job placement measures. A lifelong survivor's pension can become a poverty trap for relatively young survivors who still have opportunities for retirement income in the labour market. I believe that this change is also one of several changes that remove barriers to equality by being economically independent, and it strengthens the expectations of being just that. Survivors with a weak social relationship who have reached the age of 53 at the time of entry into force of the rules and who already have an ongoing benefit are allowed to remain so until the age of 67, and those who are already retired are not affected at all. Children who lose one or both parents are in a vulnerable situation. Therefore, it was right for the government to choose to strengthen the child benefit in its proposal for a survivor's pension for children. The government parties, together with the Progress Party, have chosen to strengthen this further, and I am very pleased that there has been unanimity in the Committee. Children are in a particularly vulnerable situation when they lose one or both parents. Until now, child pensions have been granted up to the age of 20 if the child is under education and both parents are dead. This is now extended to independent education and when one of the parents is dead. In the future, disability benefits and old-age pensions will be based on own earnings also for survivors. Supplements to the old-age and survivors’ pensions are not proposed. The additions already granted are continued but excluded from annual regulation, which means that the additions are phased out slowly. This will finalise the last part of the pension reform in the area of population protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e235	When I hear a few of the previous speakers, and in particular the rapporteur-in-Office, it is all right, as we are going to examine the budget of the Labour and Social Committee next week, to remind the rapporteur of perhaps adding funds to the Centre's alternative budget to actually implement what he is preaching in this matter, because it is not. In this proposition, the Government has made a number of proposals for changes in the survivors' benefits. The Progress Party supports several of these, but has also called for and negotiated with the government and has been able to make an impact on strengthening child pensions. It's a pleasure, and I'm also glad that the other parties finally joined the party that was negotiated, that is, to strengthen the pensions of those who need it the most. Survivors mainly arose at a time when it was common to have one dependant in the family. Hence, survivors’ benefits were also economically vital to many when they lost the family’s dependants. Fortunately, it's no longer like that. A number of changes have been made to the rules on both pensions and pension provision, and the vast majority of those in working life have their own pensionable income and thus also earn self-employed rights. The community doesn't look like it today as it did 50 years ago. Survivors' benefits have in practice remained silent and unchanged since the introduction of popular protection in 1967. Thus, it is high time to adapt these benefits to the actual situation of the day. Several of the proposals in the proposal are necessary partly as a result of a new age pension in the population. Others are quite reasonable proposals for phasing out social benefits for people of pre-vocational age. Our welfare model requires more people to participate in work, and more people are more at work if we are to ensure good and broad schemes. So we can't have benefits that actively contribute to the opposite, which is a part of what you might say about just the survivors' benefits. Therefore, the Progress Party supports the phasing out of several of these performances. There is also an important financial safety net for children who lose their parents. As I mentioned earlier, the government put forward proposals to strengthen this, but the Progress Party further strengthened it through the negotiations with the government. Children who lose one or both parents are in a very vulnerable situation. They cannot be expected to work to support themselves. Therefore, it was important for us to ensure that child-retirement benefits are provided both longer — up to 20 years old — and regardless of whether you are under education or not, so that they have a real opportunity to both finish school and get a good start in life. Furthermore, the promotion party was committed to securing all children in a family who lose one or both dependants, equal performance and to abandon the current system of reducing benefits if there are more children in the family. In sum, we believe that the setting is now good. It pursues the overall and important objectives of well-being. They are modernised by strengthening the work of those who are of working age, but they also ensure vulnerable children the economic security they need when the worst that can happen is actually happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e253	It is easy to sit in government offices and create a theory that women should have a full job and the same pay as men. But it's not really like that, especially for older ladies who may not have worked more than part-time in their entire professional life. This is not something for which they are to be blamed individually, but we all know that it has been for a long, long time. Until more recent times, it is common for the husband of the family to work full time and to work well, while the mother has worked part time and our more homes. Here I can add very quickly that this is what we would like it not to be. In view of part-time work among women, it has been somewhat better, but it is still not uncommon that it is. To believe that the replacement of today's survivors with a temporary transitional benefit should justify a higher level of participation in working life is an illusion. Think of a 59-year-old lady who's tired of being a reindeer in the municipality, she works 40 pst. at the local school and have no education. The man was a little older and unfortunately died too early. This lady may have a well-tended leaven, and setting stricter requirements or setting a time limit on performance will only make this lady poorer. Honestly, who thinks she'll go out and find a new job or ask for a higher position in an already heavy job? I don't think so. We should all wish that today's equality had come further, and that today's 50- and 60-year-olds were as equal as today's 30-year-olds – without it being completely perfect yet. But it's not like that. Many of this proposition is a desktop policy that does not match reality. There are not many, but it is a mistake to believe that a transitional benefit will improve their ability to support themselves. The SV will vote against all the changes proposed by the government here, except for the proposal on the changes in child pensions, which have also been much better than the original proposal of the government, through the consideration of the Committee. We are involved in this matter on a number of proposals, and I recommend them. I take up the SV’s proposal to ask the government to introduce a child pension up to the age of 25 if the child is under education.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e266	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e271	Today's survivors' benefits have remained largely unchanged since the 1960s. The legislative proposals represent a major change compared to the current rules. One of the proposals is to replace today's long-term survivor's pension with a fixed-term conversion benefit. I have noticed that the minority in the Committee believes that the rights of the deceased under the age of 67 should be maintained as today, justified by the fact that there is still a piece of full equality between women and men in working life. It is also pointed out that today's labour market is very demanding for the many people who have a weak connection with the labour market, who may have only partial working capacity or lower formal vocational training. I agree that these are real challenges, but there are challenges that apply in general to the labour market and not especially to survivors. Few are left in working life, and most depend on their own income before death. This is a key prerequisite for the whole of the reform. It is clear that everyone who is left behind is in a challenging situation. But for most people, the challenge is not primarily related to obtaining an income from work. Future survivors who have weak links with the labour market will be able to receive conversion benefits for up to five years with the proposed changes. This would normally give the individual sufficient time to change to self-sufficiency. Persons with reduced working capacity for health-related reasons may be entitled to health-related social security benefits. Among the survivors of older age groups, there is still a weak link with working life. This group has been covered by the transitional rules. The Government’s proposal for transitional rules means that persons who may be as young as 51 today may continue to receive survivors’ benefits until retirement. Transitional rules also cover persons who have not yet been left behind if they have reached the age of 60 when new rules enter into force and have weak links with the labour market. I would also like to add some comments to the proposal that there are no special benefits for the survivors of a new old age pension. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left consider the proposal to be a historical breach of our tradition of paying targeted welfare benefits to contribute to more equal relationships between peoples. When today's legislation was given in the 1960s, it was still very common for married women to be cared for by their husbands. At this time, the minimum level of the age pension of the population was much lower than today, and in order for married women who had not earned their own pension rights not to receive an unreasonably low age pension, rules were given that gave the widow the right to an old age pension, which was partly calculated on the basis of the earnings of the deceased. Most of those who become old-age pensioners today have had labour income and earned up on their own pension entitlements. Rather than ensuring a reasonable minimum level of survivors, today’s rules mean that persons with normal or high personal income receive a permanently higher age pension. Long-term marriage is no longer the dominant form of life in Norway, and more and more live in one-person households. Thus, there is no basis for continuing schemes that provide lastingly higher benefits on the basis of life status. This is also the main reason why the government proposes no longer to provide survival allowances for disability benefits. I would like to remind you that the proposals on disability and old age pensioners will only have an effect on new cases. Survivors who have already been granted a supplement to disability benefits shall retain the special benefits, but will not receive annual adjustments to the supplements when the reform enters into force. Old-age pensioners who earn according to old rules, who are fully applicable to those born before 1954 and partially to those born between 1954 and 1962, retain the rules that can provide permanently higher retirement pensions as survivors. In order to reduce the difference between these annual rates and those fully covered by a new age pension, it is proposed that the part of an old-age pension which is not the result of self-earnings should not be subject to annual adjustment. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees with the government that abandoned children must be a priority group. The current legislative proposal involves simplifying and significantly strengthening the benefits of popular protection for abandoned children. The proposal will also strengthen the economy of survivors who care for children under 20 years of age. Although there is no single committee behind the proposals that are being discussed today, I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposals. The proposed changes are important and correct and will contribute to strengthening the principles of the pension reform as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e305	The government parties argue in this case that survivors' pensions are a poverty trap, especially for women, and that survivors' pensions counteract the working line by encouraging women to be cared for by their husbands, and deceased men, instead of caring for themselves. Does the Council of State really believe that today's women think that way? And what cover does the Council of State have in that case because that is actually the case, and not just a presumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e310	I don't think either of us, fortunately, I would say, plan for, for example. the spouse shall die. That's why I don't think that's necessarily the motivation, but the challenge, if you're left behind and you have a low connection to work, is that you're going to be totally dependent on the partner to handle yourself. If you're so unhappy to experience that the partner dies, you get a survivor's benefit, but the relevant question to ask is, what if he just goes from? Or what if you're lonely all your life? What we now have, and what we also do through the pension reform, is to secure good pension schemes – a guarantee pension far higher than when the scheme was introduced – but we also provide a five-year conversion benefit for those who lose their spouse, to get paid work. As I said in the end, this applies all the way back to those who are 51 today, so it's good time to change and to make sure that the work line we're for in common is working.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e315	Thanks for the answer. I have a question to follow up to that Council of State is obviously very concerned about: women who have a low connection to the labour market, and how to deal with them when they end up being left behind. We're going to deal with our budget next week. There the Workers' Party has a proposal for a state contribution to the promotion of full-time culture in the municipalities. We have experienced here in the Chamber when we have debates on equality, that we are still in agreement with a separate and active tripartite cooperation for equality in the workplace. Does the Council of State see that at least some of us perceive that there is some contradiction out there and go in the way of an argument, and why won't the government support an active policy for equality in the workplace? That would promote the interests of the women we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e322	Of course, we're going to take the budget debate next week, but it's clear, I see a great deal of commitment in, for example. Party of the representative, Labour Party, for equal opportunities in employment. But that's the jam in the government parties as well, and I also experience that in the Progress Party. The difference might be that you have different approaches to how to achieve greater equality. This government has taken several steps that have made it easier to get, for example. several full-time posts instead of many part-time positions in women’s dominated professions, which is one of the handles. This is a discussion that I think is primarily about what instruments we think are right for a common goal, but at the same time, I believe that when we discuss this matter, it is about changing our pension system for the future, mainly for women, but it is also about some men, and about having a pension system that makes each one independent of his partner, can earn up to his own pension and live an independent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e327	I expect the Council of State to be pleased with the success of the Progress Party in further strengthening child pensions. But there is no doubt that adjustments you make cost money. As I mentioned in my post, several of the other batches that want to preserve today's model have chosen not to add the funds required for it. The question to the Council of State is, would it be possible, as the party of the Centre proposes, among other things, to continue today's model while also hanging on to the success of the Progress Party in strengthening child pensions, without giving money to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e332	Let me start by saying that I am absolutely happy with what the Progress Party has fought for in the Storting and got an impact on. We can talk a lot about the line of work, not least in the Labour and Social Committee, but it's a little demanding to ask children – fortunately, you might say. So to the question of whether you have to budget with this. All the decisions taken, which mean that no changes will have to be made, for example, to save money, obviously need to be financed. Many of the grips we're talking about now are things that are going to happen in the future, so it's not necessarily necessary to budget for it in 2021, because this won't work for a few years. However, it is equally clear that all proposals must be covered, whether in the budget or in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e339	I would like to thank the Council of State for its final reply. It is a call for the chairman of the Committee to read the configuration. It says on page one that it can be put into works from 2023 at the earliest. My question relates to what the Council of State said that many people have weak links with the labour market. It is a general problem, and it is difficult for everyone. I very much appreciated the honest entrance once again. But then the problems come. Now it gets worse for those who are left behind by the fact that one lives with, dies. If the Council of State thinks something about the reasoning and that this is difficult for everyone, it will be extra difficult for those who are left behind. Why, then, should one further weaken economic security for those who find it difficult to enter the labour market through the demanding allocation requirements that exist – so it is only the most worthwhile ones who get?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e346	Of course, some of the things that happen to you when you are left behind are also a death. It's tough, and it's tough in a completely different way than for example. being lonely all your life. But it's no more economically demanding for your partner to die than for your partner to leave you. And it's a little demanding for me to see that there's going to be discrimination on it, or that it's going to be harder to experience it, given that you can get up to five years in conversion aid here to re-school in order to get into working life to get that independence yourself. The other thing, as I also said in my post, and I would remind you, is that we have a completely different pension system now than when this was introduced for good reason in the 1960s. First, the minimum benefits were much lower in the pension scheme. Second, it was far more normal for women to be cared for by their husbands. That is why I believe that we now also need to adapt the system to the reality that people in Norway live in. I understand very well that it is difficult to lose a partner, but I do not believe that it is anything more demanding than if the partner, for example. Walk away from you.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e353	I guess I'm probably one of the few in the hall here, next to Lundtigen, who remembers the time the Council of State mentions. The point is that the proposals appear to be completely unnecessary and a little bit such a desktop policy, because this is not so many anymore. If you're really concerned about helping those who get into an extremely difficult situation that no one has chosen, then no one helps incentives then, then the crisis is a fact. But the second thing you can do to stimulate and make it more profitable, and that women earn pension points, is just to legislate on the right to full time and to legalize pensions from the first penny. Then many fewer would come in such a situation. These are very good intuitions as well as giving more rights to longer and qualifying follow-up through Nav. Why does the Council of State not insist on this either?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e358	Let me start by saying that I think we agree that there are some structures here that make many women still have too low positions or that they have too low incomes compared to men. My point, which I have taken several times now, which I believe is quite relevant, is: why is it not that one believes that it should also apply to women when the man leaves them? This means that we need to have a pension system and a system of working life that makes it pay for the individual to be on the job. That's when you become independent no matter what your partner chooses to do. That's when you get the freedom to get a safe and real pension based on the work you've done. And then we have a much better guarantee pension at the bottom. The representative then takes up several measures, such as: pension from the first heads. I think it's today. 10 that there is a proposal from a joint committee, which has been managed correctly by the Ministry of Finance, but where my department has also been involved, on how at least adjustments can be made in that direction. There are many discussions here that we are going to have to have in the future, but this proposal we have today, I am happy to be adopted, because it is about adapting the pension system to the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e366	The chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e373	I think everyone agrees that those who lose their dependants, lose their partners, are in a challenging situation, but that situation will not be less challenging if they do not get help to become self-sufficient in the long term. I heard the Labour Party representative ask the State Council if women really think that, that is, if the worst thing happens, you should live off the legacy and plan for it? No, I don't think any women do. But the insinuating thing here from more people is that if I – for this is a change that applies after the year coal that was born in 1971, and I was born in 1973 – had been at home today and lost my husband and caregiver, I am too old to change, to go back to work and become self-sufficient. And I don't believe that. We have been talking about promoting a full-time culture in the workplace, and to the Right it is important. We are in favour of an active policy on equal opportunities in employment, and we have, among other things, received a majority in this Chamber for the entitlement to full-time work for part-time workers. But during the financial position debate last week, I heard questions were asked about the situation at Arendal Hospital, which is in a municipality run by the Workers' Party, where they were very proud that they had got a better full-time culture. And I saw that look up on TV 2, with, among other things. The vice-chairman of the Workers' Party, Hadia Tajik, who stressed the reason for this, among others. was that long shifts had been introduced on a 12.5-hour working day, which meant that the tour now went up. It was one of the changes this government promoted in the Working Environment Act in 2015, against which the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party voted, and against which the LO took out a general strike. But it is the Right Party policy, this government's policy, that has helped to make it a better full-time culture in labour-party-driven municipalities, precisely because of the changes in the labour-environment law that they themselves voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e380	I asked the Council of State whether these restrictions were fair, and the main argument of the Council of State was that they are fair because it is no more demanding than what is the situation in the event of a breakup of life. It's a general claim, and it's, as far as I've learned, far from covering. There are a lot of people who get in a situation of death at the nearest one, which is far, far more difficult than this, and that's exactly the groups that we in the Center Party want to attend to. It's very interesting to hear the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde, who I would say represents in a good way the resources, who in a very good way represents those who have a good job, those who have a job that allows you to earn your income and your pension rights. But I would encourage the Right to look a little bit outward and look at the whole community, look at all the ants. It's not always that it's the situation, reality isn't like that, life is demanding for many of us. And there are also some people who choose to live a life without a high financial income. A living a life where you might have incomes in a different way, in a higher way, but which then makes an economic sense come into a difficult situation. We must accept that freedom of choice. Otherwise it is quite interesting to observe that the Christian People's Party is not involved in the debate. I understand that, because it was not by chance that I referred to the former Christian People's Party Social Minister Egil Aarvik, who in his time stood burdened and broken with Per Borten and left the foundation of that security network, a security network that the right parties, together with the Progress Party, now want to remove. However, I am pleased that the government parties and the Central Party agree that the commission's setting is good in the way that the cost per person within a household increases when the partner falls off, that it becomes more expensive when there is less sharing. This means, as it is now stated, that more and more people will have to live on a guarantee pension, what is now called a minimum pension, if one does not have its own pension rights from the past. Finally, this is a narrowing-down that hits those who are the weakest. There is a clear right mark on the matter, and it is quite natural for me that the Progress Party supports such a policy, for this is the true soul of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e393	I hear representatives from the government parties talk a lot about strengthening the ability to support themselves. You have some kind of blind ideological belief in some incentives that are going to work. But in Norway today we do not need a worse safety net; we need a stronger safety net for people in crisis. I haven't experienced losing my husband, but I have experienced being divorced, as someone draws into this situation. I think that's a completely different situation. I also believe that none of us sitting here can get involved in how the situation can be for individuals. I believe and will bet a fifty-note note that very many of those who really get ugly smacks in life are not so very well represented in the corridors of power. How their lives are, it's hard for many to get involved in – I understand – but then you should be careful to tear away the small measures that help you in life's throw. And yes, SV would very much like to strengthen the individual's ability to get into work. I've been a feminist all my life and worked for it. So there's a lot we can do. We can, for example: do not introduce withdrawal periods on the AAP scheme. We can't cut the transition. We may not remove benefits to people who have difficulty in starting. What we know is that there is a perfectly sunny relationship between having poor health, poor advice and being in a difficult situation in life and having trouble getting into work. Getting poorer doesn't help. We need a more fine-skinned safety net, and when you refer to the pension in the future, one of the most important measures is to get a pension from the first penny in the future. Then more people will have a good record. As the pension system is now, SV has taken initiatives towards the Progress Party and reached an agreement with them to strengthen pensions in the future, to eliminate underregulation and to strengthen the minimum pension. It is necessary, otherwise more pensioners in the future — including many of these and very many of the women — will receive a pension that is not viable in today’s Norway. We cannot compare the level of retirement in 1962 or 1967 with the level of expenditure of those who are going to live today. Then we have to compare it to what it's all about to live on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e404	Now I'm going to do something that I'm really not very comfortable with, but I can't help it, because the representative Karin Andersen came up with what you're getting used to when you're on the right-hand side of Norwegian politics. It is to be blamed for either being almost completely disconnected from the reality of these decisions, or for being completely disconnected from the fact that it can be tough for many, for example. in a situation where someone dies. When I was 15, my father died. Then my mother had been at home for 20 years. She's a trained dentist, but she hadn't worked in 20 years. Then she received support and help in re-schooling and becoming a medical secretary. She worked as a doctor's secretary at Bærum Hospital, and in March last year she left well-deserved with her own pension at the age of 67. It's not that politicians on the right-hand side don't know what reality can be like. It's actually the way people on the right know that it can be tough, but the changes we're making now are about adjusting so that women get exactly the same independence that my mother got at the time, who got a job and got a pension, and who are proud to be able to live as a retired person on their own labour income. There is also a difference between getting a divorce, and someone is dying – of course it is. For some, being left — if brutal — may be worse and worse and lead to more follow-up and help than experiencing a death, simply because you experience a betrayal as well. But what we're now discussing is what rights in the pension scheme you're going to have. I don't think there are any other arguments for one side versus the other. On the other hand, what is the answer to this is to create a pension system that makes a – woman or man – independent, with the ability to earn from your own income and that gives you the opportunity to change if something serious happens but you get to work. It doesn't just give money into the account once a month. It also gives a sense of dignity and independence, which I'm glad we now have a pension scheme that adapts to. Finally, and I repeat it again: we have a completely different pension system, with a completely different minimum pension guarantee – guarantee pension – which means that everyone gets a completely different level than they did in the 1960s, when this was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e419	I think it was very nice to hear about the mother of the Council of State who was helped to establish herself on her own, and I appreciate that the mother of the Council of State and the Council of State are also proud of it – rightly so, because it is tough. But I would like to remind the Council of State that it actually happened under today's legislation on survivors, so there is no contradiction in giving benefits from social security to those who are unable to cope with the mother of the council. I actually drew myself to give a little comment to the representative Nordby Lunde. I do not intend to do this as a debate on the Working Environment Act, but I think she made a claim that cannot be contradicted, namely that it is government policy that has contributed to a full-time culture in labour-party-driven municipalities, because long-winders were made possible as a result of the weakening of the working environment law by citizens. It's actually wrong. This type of tour users was fully possible and was also used before the weakening of the work environment law, then in agreement with employees’ organisations. Nine out of ten applications for exemptions from working time were granted. The one that was not granted was usually granted after a short time, after one, in consultation with the employees' organisations, had designed such a tour in a way that was to live with for the employees. But we get a lot of opportunities to discuss that very topic later. I believe that what should remain after this debate is that the bourgeois majority today is going to implement another unsocial cut that hits them with the worst of advice, and it has an impact on the fact that women are far more affected than men. It should remain after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e428	The debate is on an important track, for what is the main challenge here? It's that we have many people who haven't earned the necessary rights to their pension. Much of it is due to, as many have been involved, past social structures, etc. But I think some of the challenge here – both in this case and in several of the issues we are going to deal with afterwards – is that it has developed a little bit of a political practice in which several parties are only against any kind of modernisation, against any sort of adjustment. It's like everyone in this room wants us to have a good welfare system that captures those who really need help. But if we're to have a good welfare system, it's also about having to adjust it from the time we actually live in. If we do what we want to do -- and here, maybe, in particular, the Center Party is the Tab Carrier -- that everything should be the way it was in the 1960s, you actually don't help those who need the help the most. It is therefore the Progress Party, together with the Government Parties, has made adjustments within the welfare system over several years. We have strengthened the care system, as we thought it was important to strengthen it. We're now strengthening the pensions, and we've increased the minimum pension several times, because we think it's important. We are now doing something about the unsocial underregulation that the Workers' Party and the Center Party in their time went into the breast to introduce. In this area, we are strengthening the most important welfare schemes — yes, we are doing it ourselves in this case, in the area of child-retirement. But that also means that we must then be able to dare to make some adjustments. Where society has changed, the arrangements also need to be adjusted. Some have been covered by the Working Environment Act. I think it's a glittering example. Where some parties want to go back to a work environment law adapted to the working life and social structures we had in the 1970s, I think it is much better that we have a work environment law that is adapted to today's societies, where we, for example, have. have a different view of people who may have disabilities or are mentally retarded — that they also have a room in their working life. But then you can't have a work environment law that's so square, so rigid, that it really prevents many people from getting the opportunity to get into work and earn, for example. own pension entitlements. Those who just want to keep everything that it's always been do a bear service. For we must strengthen the welfare system, all of which are agreed here, we must also dare to take the necessary action when required.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e441	If we're going to strengthen well-being, we can't cut it. A number of unsocial cuts have been carried out in recent years. The problem with this is that it affects people who are disadvantaged. I listened to the council and his story, and it was certainly very difficult to experience. But it was with today's legislation and with the security that it gave. Then it was possible, and that would be possible, for most people would like to get to work. They want to get better help from Nav. It'll actually also be the ones on the AAP. Many of them are waiting — out and out — for an offer that allows them to stand on their feet and that is so long that they actually get the skills that enable them to get to work, where they are paid a salary to take care of. That's what SV is for. We are in order to strengthen those mechanisms, including economic security, because we know that economic security is absolutely necessary in order to be able to use its forces on the heavy days and the heavy tasks ahead of you. That's the whole reason why we want to do that. In the case of people with disabilities, which I'm very concerned about, retirement from the first crown would be a very important measure for many of those who don't have a full job -- much more important than tightening up survivors' benefits and that kind of thing, which, if we get good systems ahead, will be less and less of. I hear a lot of people now talk about having women in the workplace, and it is in those parties that still have doubts about cash support. So we pay healthy women to stay away from work and kids from kindergarten. If you really want to look at the use of money and how money controls choices, it's one of the worst examples of how we can set up financial support schemes that make fewer women actually in work. But it's obviously an ideological question, just like it's an ideological question for the right-hand side that if you're struggling, you have to have a little bit less, because it's an intuition. But if you have a lot -- big assets -- you have to get even more relief, because it's an intuition. This increases the differences, and the differences are hurting now. This direction must be reversed — Norway needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e454	I take the floor because I think it's time to react to the way the right parties speak in these debates. Always when we discuss these things, the right-hand side makes it like their purpose is noble and noble, to ensure that women are given the opportunity to become more self-confident, to provide better opportunities to support themselves. That's what the fig leaf they're making to protect where they're most vulnerable to criticism. I think there's a reason to react to it, because when we look at the policy on the right-hand side, it's the true opposite that happens. If you actually want people to have the opportunity to support themselves more, you have to do something about it. But what's the right-hand side doing? In the case of part-time, there is no interest from the right to do something to help increase job breaks. With regard to the possibility of becoming a permanent employee, there is no interest from the right in voting for some of the proposals promoted by the opposition in order to help more people get the opportunity to support themselves. When it comes to what the government actually does, one of the worst examples is cleankeeping in the defense. It was privatised, with the result that several employees lost earned pension entitlements, sometimes of 1.2 million. kr. Is this a contribution to making more self - sufficient? No, that's the exact opposite. Another example is that the government has blessed Investinor's investment in laundry services.no, a platform that requires people to be self-employed instead of a permanent employee. Women, often, who are already vulnerable in the labour market, become even more vulnerable to the government's blessing. We can mention in flæng: cut the redundancy money, and right-wing policy works. We're seeing an explosion in young people's miscarriages. The 30 pst. With the lowest income in Norway, real wages have fallen during today’s government, with the highest rates of unemployment. Pension from the first heads is another example of something that the government is fighting against. I don't ignore the fact that the right-wing representatives have personal experience that they include in the policy, but the point is that we represent different interests. The right-hand side represents the power of money, the people of money and the participating interests. If there is a change of government until the autumn, there shall be workers' turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e469	The representative of Wiborg is talking about modernisation. Most people experience what it means in practice. It means worse for adults who need it the most. The modernisation of the Progress Party is a worsening for the many, for the many thousands of widows who will experience the true face of the Advance Party. The party of progress could make a change in this matter. They could go together with the Center Party and more. The matter does not have budgetary implications until 2023. It may have gone up for the representative Wiborg now. But the Progress Party chose not to do so. The central party agrees that we need to look at our welfare systems. We cannot have welfare schemes that are not universally accepted and that are not perceived as fair. But then we should not least look at the rusty arrangements for those who retire at 62 years and then continue in full employment. This isn't the wearer. The wearers do not leave at 62 years of age and continue in full-time work. I would like to have a discussion about the welfare benefits scheme, but in the case of 62 years of age, we must give priority to the workers. The representative Wiborg said society has changed. Yeah, it's changed a lot. But the distribution perspective, the attitude to justice and the distribution of goods, is exactly the same important issue today as in 1966. Reasons for distribution and security are at least equally important. There are many survivors who have a part-time job, who have a weak relationship with the world of work, who need this one-off pension. Finally, the representative Wiborg comes with the Working Environment Act and says it is rigid. Yes, we've heard it all along – it's so rigid! In recent years, the Labour Environment Act has become more equitable — fairer for employees and fairer for businesses. Because we have tightened up the rules for the manning companies – manning companies, which are a practice in ensuring the security of income and recruitment through apprentices in permanent employment. The centre party is proud of what we have done there in the Working Environment Act. It's a great work environment law. We limit the amount of temporary employment. We're going to limit that further. And we're going to limit and remove the crew companies and replace them with temporary employment agencies. It is incredibly important that we have general rules that are unambiguous and clear, which give justice to the workers, but I would like to underline – also to the companies. The companies want clear framework conditions, so they know what they're dealing with, and that's what the Center Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e484	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e490	I have to say that discussing modernisation with the representative, Lundtigen, is a bit surrealistic. But yes, we in the Progress Party have used our power in this matter for what we think was the most important thing, and that was to strengthen the child's pension. So now we get a significantly strengthened child pension versus what the Center Party has gone into before, and versus what was the result when the Center Party put in government. But I noticed fortunately that the representative Lundtigen now, for the first time, boasts of the modernisation we have been given by the Working Environment Act since today's government parties and the Progress Party from 2013 have modernized it several times. But it was the representative of Arild Grande who thought we didn't do anything for the temporary staff. That's wrong. We were in the Progress Party and the government who made sure that you have the right to permanent employment if you have been temporarily employed for three years, while the representative of Grande wanted you to be temporarily employed for four years. So we wanted to reduce it to three years, and we have introduced it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e514	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e521	The social security allowance was introduced at the same time as the social security allowance in 1967, when women were largely at home and households based on one income. When such additions represented a basic social security element and when introduced, they were independent of individual earnings. It is now an income-tested supplement to the old-age pension, which is provided to pensioners who depend on their spouse and/or children under the age of 18. There are mainly older men who have children and who have younger women in working age who are given this supplement. Today, the general rule is that households with two adults also have two retirement incomes, and therefore the need for the allowance is both significantly reduced and out of date. It has made it easier for families to choose for working-age women to become resident or part-time workers, instead of becoming economically independent through their own employment. When the supplement to this is linked to the old age pension of the male, this leads to women becoming more dependent on the male’s economy — and thus also more economically vulnerable. When this changes, most people will in the long term get better out of caring for themselves through paid work and thus earn up to their own pension rather than being cared for. In order to support under-employment incentives, the total age pension should be as individual-based as possible and not related to dependant responsibility. Without a faster phase-out, the weaknesses of today's scheme will continue for a long time and create inappropriate differences in the rights of the 1962 and 1963 coal. It should be based on the alignment of individual-based benefits that support employment and strengthen the sustainability of welfare systems. Speeding up the phasing-out of the support supplements will also help to simplify the age pension in the population population according to old rules. The Committee notes that the hearing bodies that have opted to comment on support supplements in a new age pension explicitly support the non-introduction proposal – including the Landsorganisatione – LO – NHO and Specter. Just briefly to the special remarks of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, where it is proposed to increase the progression of dwindling somewhat in relation to the government's proposals. For the phase-out of spouse supplements, the earlier they enter into retirement, the more they pay for the individual. The same applies to the child allowance, which is a form of cash support. Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party support the change, but want a somewhat faster phase-out. I therefore recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e538	As the President has explained, the Committee on this matter has chosen a limited discussion. The debate on old-age pension allowance supplements follows to some extent the same path as the previous one, but with one significant difference: here we are not talking about survivors, but we are talking about couples where one is a retired person and the other is still in working age. Here we believe that the argument about contributing to your own livelihood is heavier, even though there are clear gender differences in this case as well. The vast majority of pensioners who are affected by government proposals and who have spouse support supplements are men. And the vast majority of those in working age for whom a supplement is given are women. And, as the rapporteur also stated, the Hearing Officers, both the CFO and the social partners, agree that support supplements for spouses of working age can be phased out. The working party agrees with them, but believes that they should have time to adapt. We are therefore voting against a forced phasing out of the spouse supplement. In the case of the child supplement, the matter is somewhat different. Now nature is so arranged that there are only men who are young children's parents of as old a age as we're talking about here. The only exception I have ever heard of is in Genesis of the Old Testament: the history of Abraham, 100 years old, and Sarah, his 90 - year - old pregnant wife. But no matter what the way of life, not so many people believe in that story in our day. So we're talking about older men with young children. There aren't very many, just 550 families, and there are families with low incomes. So, for the sake of children — not for the sake of adults, but for the sake of children — the children’s supplement should be retained and the Workers’ Party will vote against its liquidation. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, where we ask the government to come back with legislative proposals to ensure that the child supplement is continued in a new age pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e549	The representative Lise Christoffersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e554	It is reassuring to hear that the representative Lise Christoffersen knows the Bible well. In this case, too, the Progress Party has agreed with the government, but we have established a faster winding-up than the government originally proposed. The support supplement was introduced in 1967, when women were largely at home and the family had only one income for care. As we debated in the previous case, on survivors' benefits, society has changed significantly since they were established. The vast majority of women of working age have their own labour income or other income and are assumed to have it. They therefore earn their own rights to pensions and other benefits, if necessary. The supplement to the old-age pension is currently tested on income and is given to old-age pensioners who support spouses and/or children under 18 years of age. Older pensioners must have reached the age of 67 and receive 100 pst. age pension for entitlement to a dependant allowance. There are mainly older men who have children with younger women in pre-employment who receive the supplement. The last thing I think illustrates well why we will today vote in favour of a liquidation. As I said in the previous case, our welfare model is based on the assumption that those who are able to work will do so and contribute to the financing of broad, good welfare schemes, among others. to those who can't actually work. Then we can't maintain benefits that contribute to the opposite. Furthermore, it is not reasonable for workers otherwise to finance a domestic spouse and their common child, unless there are clear limitations in their working capacity which impede joint family responsibility. For those who live in Norway and have to earn the right to social security, other income insurance schemes will be ensured if they do. So the Progress Party believes that the decisions we are making here today are both reasonable and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e567	The allowance is an income-tested supplement to the old-age pension. It is provided to beneficiaries who depend on spouses or children under the age of 18 who have a total income below a certain level. Older pensioners must have reached the age of 67 and receive 100 pst. age pension in order to qualify for the allowance. It was introduced at the same time as the population's fear in 1967. The measurement of the benefit was strictly linked to the income ratio of the beneficiary and the family and confirmed that the purpose of the benefit was distribution considerations. The centre party believes that the need-tested supplement to the old age pension should continue to be provided. As others have pointed out, there are only 550 recipients today, and the Central Party points out that the fight against child poverty must be a high priority regardless of the age and civil status of parents. We're not going to separate this. There may be different opinions about how a person behaves in life, but we have to relate to the actual reality. The centre party refers to the introduction of the legislation on support supplements in 1967. The measurement of the benefit was strictly linked to the income ratio of the beneficiary and the family and confirmed that the purpose of the benefit is distributional. The centre party will point out that annual coal born in 1963 and later, the old-age pension is fully calculated in accordance with the new rules on social security benefits, and there are no rules on supplementation to the old-age pension under new retirement rules. Therefore, without legislative change, the supply supplements will be phased out with full effect from the 1962 coal to the 1963 coal. The centre party supports that there is no legislative change at this point. As regards the further phasing-out of the support supplement, the Centre Party will point out that the support supplement to the old-age pension is anchored for very strong distribution purposes. As a result, there is therefore a strong incentive for people to support themselves through paid work. Here gets the idea that if one gets these additions, one won't work. That's an absurd claim. It's a driving force towards profitable work that's huge, not least for ordinary people. However, young people with an old age pension do not have the option of depending on their seas. Today’s legislation includes a few people, and the number has fallen sharply. The total appropriations are relatively modest, while the benefit to the individual represents a significant amount for the total, scarce economy of the household. On this basis, the centre party opposes the government's proposal to phase out the allowance for old age pension faster than the current rules. We now experience that there is support from the Workers' Party's Lise Christoffersen, and it is very pleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e580	This is a new item in the long list of non-social cuts provided by this government. As if we don't have enough unsocial cuts for the poor in this country – here comes another one. Many have already been told about what's going on. Not many people today get this dependency plugin. This supplement is tested against income and is not distributed to the site and the pistes. On this occasion, I would like to remind the Committee and, in particular, the Government Party and the Support Party that there are today more than 100 000 children living in poverty in Norway, and this cut will increase that figure. We are therefore in favour of making a proposal in this matter where we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that today's rules on child allowances are passed on in a new age pension from the population. SV does not support the proposal for a faster phase-out proposed by the government here. Once again, this government proves that they stand for a very hard line of work, where only those who work and support themselves tend to have a decent life. In SV we believe that everyone has a good life, and that those who can work must work, but those who can't work must be cared for, they too. It's this that's a modern and civilized society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e591	The current legislative proposal follows up the question of future schemes in old-age pensions that support spouses and children, including the question of an increased minimum pension for pensioners who support spouses over 60 years of age. The proposal follows up the leadership of Ot.prp. No 37 for 2008-2009, which states that these issues should be assessed. The new old-age pension scheme in the social security system is geared towards individual-based generation and good minimum-security schemes. The legislative proposal under consideration today supports the line of work and strengthens the sustainability of the population. The Code of Sustainance Supplements was introduced at the same time as the Population Security in 1967. Under the rules in force, pensioners over the age of 67 who support a spouse or a child under the age of 18 can get a supplement, i.e. a spouse's supplement or a child's supplement, for their retirement. The rules, with the exception of the introduction of income testing, have remained unchanged since 1967, and the scheme has not been adapted to a time when women also work and contribute to the support of the family. The scheme is therefore out of date. In June 2020, there were 2,200 recipients of support supplements for spouses and children. It is almost exclusively men who receive support supplements. 84 pst. of the women for whom a spouse allowance is currently received are under 67 years of age and in pre-employment. The marriage supplement and child supplement scheme is not adapted to the pension reform and the line of work, and the scheme may allow households to choose to leave the woman completely or partially without work and earning a retirement pension. Caring for yourself through work or own retirement will be a better solution for most people and give more freedom than being cared for by spouses or cohabitants. The government has therefore proposed not to introduce support supplements into a new age pension. I notice that none of the hearing bodies disagreed with this proposal. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the government's proposal not to introduce a dependency allowance into a new age pension and the proposal that today's allowance should be phased out more quickly than under the current rules. I also record that the majority of the committee is in favour of a somewhat faster winding-up than what was proposed in the proposal. The majority of the Committee has made two adjustments compared to the Government's proposal, firstly by not granting new spouse supplements from 1 January 2022, similar to those proposed by the Government for children's allowances. Furthermore, the majority is in favour of a somewhat faster phase-out of the additions compared to that proposed. It is natural for the rules of popular fear to be adapted to the times in which we live. This also applies to the legislation on support supplements for old-age pensions. It is gratifying that a majority of the committee supports the principles of the bill, and it is time to change the rules of popular interest in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e608	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e625	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e632	Thank you for your cooperation in the committee. We were made aware of a small matter in 12 hours that made it more complicated. I'll try to get through it to the best of my ability. The proposal proposes the introduction of an obligation for municipalities to impose conditions on Norwegian training if the lack of Norwegian knowledge is the reason why the person is not self-driving. It shall apply to those who are entitled and obliged to participate in the introduction programme by law of integration through training, education and work. It is pointed out in the proposition that there is a continuing trend that the population of immigrants is more dependent on economic social assistance than the rest of the population. The Committee agrees that languages are essential in order to become an important part of Norwegian society and working life. Therefore, it is important for society to address the challenges of lack of Norwegian skills when there is a barrier to participation. The proposition was at a wide consultation in the autumn of 2019. That was three months of consultation. Hearing recordings were varied, and the proposition makes a good comment on the hearing recordings. So a little bit of history: In 2015, the Storting decided to impose an obligation on the municipalities to impose conditions on the activity of granting financial support to all beneficiaries. It was not to be implemented immediately, and from January 2017 it took the first step to introduce the obligation of activity for recipients under 30 years. This means that when an obligation is imposed on municipalities to impose conditions on Norwegian training, it will apply when Section 20(a) disappears, as the Stortinget has decided, to all. As a natural consequence, the Progress Party, in consultation with the Labour Party, has decided to draw our proposal, that is, capital B in the vote, which we believe is fulfilled in Roman number II. We will then vote against the minority proposal – first for Roman numerals II, then for Roman numerals I, which make changes to a paragraph Stortinget has decided to end, but which makes sense to make changes until Section 20(a) is removed. The Progress Party also expects the government to follow up the Storting decision as soon as it is possible, and I hope the Council of State will attach some comments to what it takes so long. It is important that everyone participates in the labour market. Society must make demands and it should not be the case in Norway in 2020 that there is a lack of Norwegian knowledge that is the reason for not being at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e651	The Labour Party will have a fairer Norway. If we are to succeed, everyone must contribute – everyone must have the opportunity to contribute. Government policy is consistently short-term and unfair. They have requirements for the obligation of activity for social assistance recipients, but without setting up resources. We believe that demands should be made, but we also believe that society should set up. In addition, the government has narrowed the requirement to apply only to them for less than 30 years, despite the fact that the Storting decided in 2015 to apply to all. The Labour Party has repeatedly called for the requirement to apply to all but not to be given a majority. We support the assessment of setting conditions for Norwegian training or Sami training if lack of Norwegian knowledge or common knowledge is the reason for a person not being self-driving and that Norwegian training is subject to conditions for those who have had the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme. But even this time, the right-hand government does not set up the resources needed to do that job. We also think that it is strange to limit it to people under 30 years of age. Then we've gone a few rounds with the Storting's office to figure out how we can support the intention of what is presented by the government, but at the same time express our opinion that the requirements should apply to everyone and not just to people under 30 years of age. The age limit is regulated in Section 20(a), but precisely that paragraph was adopted by the Stortinget in 2015. The government has not followed it up, but also introduced a 30-year limitation in the paragraph. The solution we have found is in line with what the rapporteur said: In order not to get too complicated voting with alternative proposals, we will vote in favour of Roman numbers II, as we believe that both the obligation of activity and this with Norwegian training or Sami training should apply to everyone of working age. Then we vote subsidiaryly for Roman numeral I, but emphasise that we believe that the government must ensure that the repeal of § 20a enters into force under Act No. 24 April 2015. 20 as soon as practicable. As a result, the age limit of 30 years is lost, i.e. both for the obligation of activity and for the condition of Norwegian or Sami training, and § 20 is what we adopt in Roman number II, which remains in the law. Thus, our intention in the proposal for B is respected and can be drawn for our part. Otherwise, the Labour Party will vote in favour of minority proposals Nos. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e670	When the Solberg government introduced an activity obligation for social assistance recipients under 30 years from 2017, the aim was to strengthen the individual’s ability to move to work or to education. One of the greatest things we experience as human beings is the feeling of being seen by others. Being asked is to feel that someone cares. A need for temporary support shall provide opportunities, not just passive living. Therefore, it was important for us in the Right to have an activity requirement that obliges the recipient, but also the municipality to make an offer. We have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. We notice that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were against it at the time. The government has long prioritised preventing permanent exclusion for young people under 30 years of age through reinforced efforts, but I also believe that this group has better opportunities for transition to work or education than many others and can therefore make the fastest use of the follow-up obligation. Let me also correct an incursion in the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party, where it says that the obligation is to be extended also for those who are not in the target of the introduction programme. Of course, the right thing to do is to support the content of the proposition, which is to further expand the offer of activity with language training for those who have had the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme, but have not been given a foothold in the labour market. Language has been identified as a particular obstacle to work and is not part of the activity offer today. The reason why we are introducing this for them for less than 30 years is as I said, that we believe that reinforced efforts here will very quickly lead to good results for the group concerned. With regard to the proposal to extend the obligation to take part in Norwegian courses in order to get support for living, the Right is in fact a little surprised that the Workers' Party, which opposed the obligation of activity for young people under 30 years of age, now wants to be able to hold back social assistance for older refugees and immigrants if they do not meet the Norwegian training requirement. For us, it has been important to ensure that the obligation of activity is effective, to allow municipalities to adapt to the requirement of offering and to ensure that this is targeted at the group with the most dividends, first – before we extend the obligation of activity to them over 30 years. The obligation of activity is, as you know, both ways: an obligation for the municipality to make offers and a requirement for the recipient to participate. So the right is to extend the obligation of activity to them over 30 years, but it is right to give priority to increased efforts to the group that already has an activity obligation. We think that other age groups will have a slightly different need, perhaps also for other measures. We want those measures to be adapted so that they get the most effect, that is actually helping those they're supposed to help, and not just becoming a counting edge in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e685	First, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party has with SV. The centre party votes in favour of Roman numerals I and II under motion A in the vote and opposes proposal B. We are therefore in favour of this being applied to persons under 30 years of age. Social assistance should be a temporary benefit for people who are in a critical economic situation, i.e. a scheme that is the last economic chance to help people. The centre party is a hot follower of the principle of ‘doing your duty, demanding your right’, but many people who are receiving social assistance have in practice a very difficult situation with little ability to do more than try to cope with the sea. However, some are in a better situation. The central party disagrees with the introduction of social assistance obligations without giving social assistance recipients the right to carry out public assistance obligations. The whole point of duties and dishes is that people should get a little better out of their demeanor. The present proposal concerns those who are poor in Norwegian, therefore refugees or immigrants in practice in the first or second generation. The government is discussing Norwegian training and assessment obligations very extensively — and I would ask the Stortinget to note this: a very wide-ranging discussion — as a result of the critical nature of a number of hearing bodies. Social assistance recipients are a heterogeneous group that may have complex needs and municipalities shall always make individual assessments based on a survey of the needs of the beneficiaries. The central party assumes that the legislative changes can be implemented in accordance with our international obligations. It's been carefully discussed, and we appreciate that very much. The central party understands the government’s proposal in such a way that it is based on an assessment obligation, i.e. assessing whether it is right to impose obligations, and further whether Norwegian training is to be required, i.e. Norwegian training obligation. The centre party would stress that the amendment of the law should not break the basic value of ensuring that everyone, in any case, has the means of a completely necessary living. The case concerns language training, and the point is to get out of an isolation that so far has not led to the necessary Norwegian skills in order to participate in Norwegian society. The batch of centres considers that only use of coercion will produce very limited results. One has to combine with the rights of the individual, so that one comes out of it in practice and has the opportunity to fulfil the obligations. How this can be done must be seen from the local context. In some municipalities, the qualification programme of the municipalities may be relevant; in other cases, other offers may be appropriate. This has to be assessed at the different Nav offices according to local circumstances. However, we would like to stress from the Centre Party that the extra costs of the municipalities to follow up this action, which will provide better integration into Norwegian society, must be financed through earmarked – and I stress earmarked – appropriations for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e706	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e711	Social assistance is a security network and a minimum service provided from Nav to people who, for various reasons, are unable to support themselves. Social assistance should ensure that people can survive and have economic security for a limited period of time. It's an absolute minimum to deal with for those who are already among the most difficult in our society. SV is not against setting people's requirements. Norwegian training is unlikely to be important for people both learning the language, becoming a part of society and entering the labour market. In this proposition, no proposals are made requiring Norwegian training provision to be improved in municipalities. On the other hand, proposals are being made that allow Nav to cut to the minimum that people have to live on when they get social assistance, if people with poor Norwegian skills have not been able to learn the language. The proposal states that the aid cannot be reduced to an unresponsive low level. But what's an unresponsive low level? Should it be up to the individual municipality to define it itself? In social services law, there is already the possibility today to impose training requirements on recipients under 30 years of age. So there's already a possibility there to set requirements. The amount of social assistance and the assistance and follow-up that can be provided should be assessed individually and on the basis of individual needs. SV also believes that there should be a follow-up obligation in the municipalities that ensures close and adequate follow-up for beneficiaries of social assistance with a need for Norwegian training, and therefore makes suggestions. SV joins several of the audio recordings that note that it is important to ensure increased Norwegian knowledge, but that the tools proposed here are incorrect. The correct instrument should also be closer follow-up and Norwegian training that works and qualifies for participation in the Norwegian society and working life, such as for example. The Job Browser and the Qualification Program. I record the suggestions SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e724	The representative, Solfrid Lerbreck, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e729	The government has proposed to strengthen Norwegian training for immigrants receiving social assistance. The background to the proposal is that non-Norwegian people dominate social assistance statistics, and this will include, among other things, social assistance statistics. associated with a lack of Norwegian knowledge. Activity obligations were introduced in 2015, but we still see that the same groups fall outside the labour market. There are often complex reasons why people become dependent on social assistance, but without being able to Norwegian, it becomes harder to orient themselves and become acquainted with a new country and culture. In order to strengthen integration, the government wants to impose an assessment obligation on municipalities on a case-by-case basis. Language is an invaluable factor in getting into a new society and in working life. The proposal involves assessing for each recipient under 30 years whether there is a lack of Norwegian knowledge that means that he or she is outside the labour market. If the municipality finds that this is the case, Norwegian training shall be subject to conditions. The exception is that if the person concerned has serious reasons for dropping or postponing it. It can be, for example, be the case of somatic or mental illness. It is important to get young people into activity with schooling, sports and other leisure activities. It is also integral and socializing to be with friends in a vibrant youth environment. The young people who come want a bright future and will benefit greatly from good training. By this proposal, the municipalities are required to ensure the Norwegian training for each individual and that the training is good enough for those qualified for the introduction programme. This obligation is reinforced in this proposal, which also allows for sanctions if the obligation of activity is not met. Without adequate Norwegian skills, many will stand out from work. The cork of the individual or society is lit with it. The Christian People's Party believes that the clarification of responsibility and the ability to react in the event of a breach of duty is a step in the right direction to get more people to work. The setting of conditions for social welfare will help to recognise the importance of participation in the labour market, as many people are familiar with the community and the Norwegian community. In the long term, local authorities will have a little extra effort to make savings, with a reduction in social security payments and an increase in tax revenue. It's going to be a win-win for everyone. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of proposals A, Roman numerals I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e747	For successful integration, it is important that those living in Norway learn Norwegian. Language is essential for getting to work or taking a training course. Sufficient language skills are a key to lasting employment relations. The legislative proposal under consideration today could help to increase the language skills of people who are not self-employed and prevent relapses to the receipt of economic social assistance. The changes in the social services law proposed by the government imply the introduction of an obligation for municipalities to impose conditions on Norwegian training if the lack of Norwegian knowledge is the reason why a person is not self-held and the person has had the right and obligation to participate in the introduction programme. The proposal also implies an obligation for municipalities to consider setting conditions for Norwegian training for all other beneficiaries of social assistance where they are not self-held because they cannot Norwegian. Both amendments are initially proposed to apply to beneficiaries under 30 years of age. The proposal for the introduction of Norwegian training and assessment obligations must be seen in the context of the new integration law adopted by the Stortinget on 20 October 2020. It is important that municipalities also have a clear obligation under the Social Services Act to follow up their lack of Norwegian skills when this is a barrier to participation for those who are in the target group of the introduction programme. Activity obligations under the Social Services Act for beneficiaries under 30 years of age were introduced in 2017. Within the scope of the obligation of activity, municipalities also have the possibility to impose conditions on decisions on economic social assistance in the form of participation in language training. However, monitoring of municipal services under the Social Services Act has shown that there are challenges related to the identification of individual needs and individual adaptation of the provision provided to beneficiaries. The changes in the laws relating to language training shall contribute to ensuring that municipalities lay down conditions for participation in language training to those persons who are prevented from taking part in the labour market due to poor Norwegian knowledge and that municipalities provide sufficient language training to get this target into work. In assessing the level of language skills sufficient for individuals, it will include: have a bearing on the type of work or training the municipality considers realistic for each beneficiary. The language level that a beneficiary of the aid needs to reach in order to become a self-driving wheel will vary. It must be specifically assessed by the municipality in cooperation with the beneficiary himself. The types of language training that will be provided in each municipality will depend on the actions that each municipality provides. There are different reasons why people today are out of work. For some, lack of Norwegian skills is the reason they meet closed doors in the workplace. We therefore strengthen the obligation of activity in order to ensure that more people are required to have activities that equip them for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e764	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e769	I notice that the Council of State in its statement says that the requirement that it should apply only to them under 30 years of age applies initially, and I hear that the ambition is that it should be expanded gradually. We believe it's unnatural that you have a 30-year limit – we have no one to lose in work, we have no one to lose in our society, and unfortunately we see that too many people are outside because they, for example, are outside. have no basic language skills. All that can be done to contribute to it is the Workers' Party for. But then I believe that we must also enable the municipalities to deliver a good offer – close follow-up. The government parties have not been willing to do so far. Will the Council of State consider both removing this age limit as soon as possible and proposing to the Storting on appropriations to ensure that municipalities are able to provide close and effective follow-up to those covered by the requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e774	Let me first explain this inequality in terms of over and under 30 years. It is that today's activity obligation goes up to 30 years. I think it is demanding to create a certain level of activity for one particular group – for them under 30 years – but not for the others. Nevertheless, it is a prerequisite for municipalities to continue to assess whether to offer this or request it in some way. When you talk about it in the area of duty of activity, I think it's right that the whole age limit is increased if you're going to impose new schemes. As I pointed out in my article, we have recently adopted a new law of integration. We have also made an integration promise, which means that local authorities too should be able to provide, for example. good language training. It is clear that some reason why we also point to the municipalities is, as I said in my post, that there are large local differences, for example. with regard to the working life to which it is possible to recruit, the language needs. Therefore, I believe it is important that municipalities have a certain responsibility for how to provide different services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e781	For the Progress Party, it is important that everyone learns Norwegian, that they participate in the labour market, and that society demands activity for those receiving social assistance. The size has decided to impose an activity obligation on all, but it is currently limited to those under 30 years. When will the State Council follow up the Storting's decision to impose an activity obligation for all, including Norwegian training conditions for those over 30 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e786	It is true that in 2015 the Storting adopted a general obligation to operate. The representative knows that well, because I think the representative's party was heavily involved in that work. It was then decided in 2016 – applicable from 2017 – that it would be valid for 30 years. I don't have a date for expanding this, if any, now we're running on a government platform that the representative's party no longer thinks is bound by, but it's saying it's going to increase to 40 years. This is a work that is in progress, but I do not now have a date for the representative to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e791	I would like to stress that in the municipal scheme social support is based on, it should be an assessment obligation; it should be an assessment obligation on Norwegian training. And we must not forget the basic value of ensuring that everyone in any case has the means to complete the necessary living. It's important to make a statement from the Center Party's side. And then it's just the use of coercion will give limited results. We need to combine coerciveness with rights – and rights so that people get better knowledge of Norwegian will cost money. In our opinion, it will cost net money at least in a start-up phase, because here we're going to do a job for the many social welfare recipients under 30 who are not good in Norwegian, and it costs money. So the question is how the municipalities are going to finance it. Does the Council agree that it is natural to earmark appropriations from the State in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e798	Let me just first give a quick support to this very thing that obligations should be followed by rights, otherwise it will only be a pursuit of people – if you don't also have a device that can follow up. I'm probably more critical than the representative to earmark money for the municipalities. I think it's better to give free revenues, so that they can be adapted locally. It's simply because there'll be different needs and different ways to do this. I think that locally in different municipalities you can see different ways of doing this. That's why I think it should be given through free income, not through earmarked grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e805	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e824	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e841	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, no lines will be given, and those who draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e846	The formation of wages and salaries in Norway is largely determined by negotiations between the employer and the employee, or by their organisations. It's an important principle. Some of us want to secure most people a floor plan through the introduction of a national minimum wage, but there is another debate. The fact that the formation of wages is a matter between the parties, means that we should be careful to intervene in wage learning, but in some cases it is necessary. In the dispute between the KS and the Norwegian Medical Association, the government chose to intervene on a compulsory payroll basis, after notice of an escalation of the strike, which the State Health Authority concluded on 30 October would lead to a risk to life and health. The Committee is unanimous in its support of this assessment by the Government. The Committee is also unanimous in its comments on the need to look at the previously concluded agreements on exemptions from the working time provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. The fact that employers and employees are negotiating for sensible arrangements according to the conditions under which they work makes sense. It is a good thing for our society that we have constructive parties that can agree to exceptions from working time. At the same time, we must not get a system in which the parties are afraid to enter into an agreement if such exemptions, which have been negotiated up to, are impossible to get adjusted or modified at a later stage if that would be desirable. Because if one of the parties refuses to make adjustments and the case eventually goes to conflict, strike and eventually the Rikswohnsnämnden, and if there is an automatic way of always continuing the current system, it could scare the parties from wanting to conclude such agreements. What I have now mentioned must not be interpreted as a guide to the National Institute of Wage and Wage. The Committee has therefore been clear in its comments that both the parties and the government are being asked to take a closer look at this issue, so that, in the future, we will also have social partners who will be able to negotiate together for good solutions, and also – sometimes – with the exception of the working time regulations of the Working Environment Act. It is for the benefit of society, as well as of individuals and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e857	The Labour Party is behind a unanimous recommendation from the Committee, and the rapporteur has explained the reason why the Committee has landed on that recommendation, so I do not have to repeat it. I take the floor to stress that the Workers' Party believes that it is absolutely essential and essential for Norway to comply with the ILO core conventions and the conventions we have ratified. In this case, it seems somewhat unclear what view government parties actually have of that. When, for some time, we discussed and dealt with a case from the Workers' Party to get the ILO core conventions into the Human Rights Act, the representatives from the right parties wrote the following: ‘Norway has signed and ratified all eight Conventions and is fully bound by their content. These members state that the core ILO Conventions thus commit Norway to this day.’ That's why the right parties voted down our proposal to include it in the Human Rights Act. Then the department of the matter we are discussing today writes: ‘The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is of the opinion that a decision on compulsory pay in the dispute in question has been ratified in the framework of the Conventions of Norway. If there is a conflict between international conventions and Norway’s use of compulsory pay, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs considers that intervention in the conflict is necessary in any case.’ We have therefore, in a note, asked the government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a clarification of what is actually the government's view of the ILO's core conventions. It is also relevant because the Judicial Committee is now considering a position on a new proposal from the Workers' Party to include the ILO core conventions in the Human Rights Act. The debate today is an opportunity for the Council of State to come back to the Storting and clarify these things. Does the Council of State consider Norway to be fully bound by the ILO Nuclear Conventions? If so, how does it relate to the quotation I just made, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in this matter? I'm addressing the suggestions the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e879	The representative of Arild Grande has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e884	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for having immediately and very clearly formulated the Committee's views on this matter, because we agree that a well-organised working life is a good thing for both the employee, the employer and society. Good dialogue between the parties ensures transition, responsibilities in wage negotiations and a low level of conflict in the labour market. Although it is not the role of the Storting to intervene in conflicts between the social partners, the Right believes that as a legislative assembly we have obligations to follow up the intention of the law. The Working Environment Act and the Working Time Regulations are protective laws that guarantee the rights of workers. There is flexibility to agree on temporary exemptions in working time when it is considered to be sound. It is important that both the intention and the flexibility are respected and that the social partners are brought to an end. We have noticed that the Norwegian Medical Association has pointed out over time that since the special agreement between KS and the Medical Association was concluded, the prerequisites have changed due to increased tasks for the local authorities. The Medical Association has for several years addressed the need to tighten up working time arrangements with KS. The collective bargaining agreement provides for extensive derogations from the protection rules applicable to most other workers in the labour market, in line with the contractual access to the labour environment law. We believe that it is unfortunate if KS continues to agree only to continue exemptions from working time regulations and takes this as a matter of course. There's several reasons for that. One is that the decision-makers have been given more tasks in retrospect, which means that the assumptions for the exceptions in the working time arrangements have changed. The second is that only one continuation undermines the workers' right and competence to maintain the protection provisions of the Working Environment Act. It undermines the trust between the parties and, not least, the possibility of agreeing on new or other temporary solutions later, as temporary solutions prove to be sustainable. That's actually what I mean, we can't have it. That being said, it was right to close a labour conflict when small municipalities with few doctors made the population stand without medical services for immediate and regular medical care, but this should be resolved better between the parties in the future. The right considers, of course, that we are under international law under the ILO’s core conventions, but have seen that the case is now under review in the Justice Committee and awaits its proceedings there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e899	The center party agrees with pay terms, but it's important to tell thoroughly why in all the world we've come into this situation, because that's something that's a result of long-term lack of work. The centre party has written an in-depth note, got a break-up on it from the opposition and made thorough proposals. The result is that there has been a discussion between KS and the Norwegian Medical Association since 2014 and the root causes of the conflict have not been resolved. A separate NOU 2015 has been presented: 17 First, a comprehensive system for dealing with acute diseases and injuries outside hospitals. The government has not followed up the committee’s important recommendation in the field of medical care, which is the basis for the payroll treatment of this work conflict. The Central Party has been promoting several representative proposals on matters over the last few years, and we are once again promoting proposals to try to address the causes of the conflict at root. The government presented an action plan for the permanent services in spring 2020. It also did not contain measures to strengthen the medical services in addition to setting up a new sample — this time a group of experts to monitor, among others. the working load of medical officers. There is no doubt that the medical staff’s workload is such that it creates critical situations and lack of recruitment. The centre party would stress that the cause of the situation that has led to the strike must be resolved quickly by government and collapse, and the centre party is in favour of the Rikswohnsnemendna addressing the conflict according to its role in the tariff system – I would stress it: its role in the tariff system. It is, as mentioned, a well-known issue that in many cases the workload of medical caregivers in the districts is very high. If the workload is not reduced, this will go beyond recruitment and stability, and many municipalities will be left without a full health service. Now only 35 doctors in the districts had to strike a paycheck. There is therefore a need, in the opinion of the Centre Party, to make changes in the organisation and funding that provide the public, especially in the districts, with security of access to permanent doctors and a medical care system that ensures emergency medical care for the population. We would stress that if the government does not resolve the cause of the conflict, there is a great danger of a new conflict in future wage settlements. This must be avoided. I would like to say it so strongly: we do not want a new case in Stortinget on this basis – now the government has to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e918	I want to start by saying that I fully support what the representative of Grande said about the ILO's core conventions in his article. It's hard when lizards go on strike, simply because they have such an enormously central role in life and health. As we all know, compulsory payroll should only be used when there is a risk to life and health. That's not always the case. These have been our occasions before when forced payrolls have been used and they do not pose a danger to life and health. Actually, this means that the striker's striker is very restricted. This makes things difficult for us, but I can say that we are going to vote for it. This is also done in the configuration dialog. Then, of course, we have some own suggestions in the matter. The situation of the fixed assets is not easy. It is often the same body that drives the local bodyguard. They work too much in my opinion, and this will take too little attention in conflicts like this. Yes, I understand that it is also challenging for the counterparty, but I think that this needs to be taken more into account in general social planning. Here it can be beneficial, for example. facilitates the development of more bodies in Norway. In the long term, it will make it easier to resolve the persistent crisis, together with other measures to facilitate the individual’s work situation. We suggest, among other things: the establishment of a plan for increasing the capacity, competence and quality of the medical care services, and we suggest that the government should take action to encourage the municipalities to invest medical care in the regular working hours of the individual doctor. These are two steps in the right direction, but only this is obviously not enough. The firm crisis is imminent in an incredible number of municipalities, including where I myself live, which are not very unfocused. Personally, I understand very well that a new doctor will not work 60–70 hours a week as a regular and medical officer while establishing a family.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e929	It is the social partners who are responsible for the income statements and for the peace of work. The freedom of negotiation with access to the use of means of combat means means that society must withstand the disadvantages of a conflict of labour. At the same time, it is generally accepted that neither strike nor lockout should affect society in a way that endangers life and health. In September, the Akademikarna municipality and KS negotiated the main tariff settlement. Negotiations also included renegotiation of the specific agreement. The academics broke the negotiations, while the other employee organisations came to an agreement with the employer. There was mediation, and everyone in the Academics except the Medical Association accepted the proposal that was brokered. The medical team took out 23 members on strike from Monday 26 October. The following day, escalation was announced for a further 12 members. State health surveillance followed the strike carefully and evaluated continuously the consequences of the strike on patients’ lives and health. The strikes affected the municipal medical services. The 23 doctors who were taken out on strike from the beginning had not been on medical care for the current period, and the strike could run without consequences for life and health. On 30 October 2020, the Health Authority concluded that there would be a risk to life and health when alerting the escalation was initiated. The Health Authority pointed out that the escalation would affect small municipalities with few doctors. Among other things, the population of a municipality would be without medical care, both for immediate help and for regular medical care. In the light of the Health Authority's assessment, I called the parties to the meeting on Sunday 1 November. The parties confirmed at the meeting that they had no opportunity to reach an agreement. In the light of this, I informed the government that it was necessary to submit proposals to the Stortinget on the compulsory payroll on the employment dispute. Such a situation had developed, it would be irresponsible not to intervene. Then a question was raised by the representative of Grande, who also asked SV, namely the wording given in relation to the relationship with the ILO Convention. It is only worth noting to Stortinget that the wording used in this document is the same as has been used by alternating governments since the late 1990s. Let me just say, of course, that we're bound by international law. But violations of conventions that are not incorporated into Norwegian law must also follow international law. There is, as has been pointed out by several, a proposal on this in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which is due to be put to the vote at the end of February, so we must follow closely how this is regulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e944	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e949	This is not a matter for the Health and Care Committee, because it is a work dispute, but I feel the call to make an article because I have, after all, worked both as a doctor on a medical watch and for several years worked for this matter at Stortinget. In this case, three proposals have been made. I want to briefly tell you about them. I see that in the setting they have received support from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV. The first proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to encourage local authorities to facilitate better the planning of medical care and to be part of a regulated working time.’ This was a proposal in the NOU from 2015, where one came up with a recommendation for government and big business that was not followed up. When I see what one actually suggests, it's asking for medical care to be more part of regulated working time. Name another emergency service in Norway, where the responsibility for emergency care takes place during the leisure time of those who have it as a profession. It does not exist. The medical service has been organised for too many years to take place outside regulated working hours. I can guarantee that there will be a lot of conflicts and a lot of strikes, and the entire medical service will check if no proposal is made. 1 is taken seriously. There won't be one new doctor who thinks they're going to work as a regular, with all the amount of work in such a profession, and also work guards. There is not one young doctor who will find himself in this in the future. On the other hand, medical care is so incredibly important for life, health and preparedness in the municipalities. That's where one first comes in, and if the medical services are located, there's a lot of the emergency services in the municipalities – and especially in the districts. So to proposal No. 2, on an action plan to increase the capacity of the medical services. We've suggested that before. We've got multiple numbers too, but the government hasn't put anything forward. In addition, it's a proposal that the expert group that is now set up to look at the medical services actually has to deliver that report quite quickly, because we can't take it for even more years and that we are in the same situation until next year. The government has had plenty of time to strengthen its medical profession. They haven't done that, and now I think the Storting has to put a little pressure behind this requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e970	I don't think the Council of State explains the important question of how to actually deal with the ILO core conventions. Or rather, it's really clear, because it's right – as the Council of State says – that this has been used before, through forced pay in several cases. It shows that the way it has been ratified today, with the preparatory work on which it is based, ILO core conventions can be set aside. That is the whole reason why the Workers' Party has made earlier proposals, and now repeat it, that the ILO core conventions are to be incorporated into the Human Rights Act. The question of government parties will sort out how to understand it when they say, on the one hand, that ILO's core conventions can be set aside in special cases, but on the other hand Norway is fully bound by ILO's core conventions. It may be interesting when we come back to the debate when the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights' Rights' position on the Labour Party's proposal is to be discussed in the autumn of the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e977	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e994	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, lines will not be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e999	This case involves changes to the Law on Social Security, which means that today's self-employed persons 1 and 2 are merged into a joint self-employed person with a combined free-card scheme. An overall committee considers aggregation to be sensible and supports the legislative proposal. In the recommendation, the Committee points out that the Ministry stresses that the change is of a technical nature and does not entail any change to the applicable law as regards the health services and authorised components covered by the new common expenditure package. The large majority of the hearing bodies in the Ministry’s own hearing also consider that the changes will provide a simpler and fairer system, but several have clearly said, including in the Committee’s budgetary hearing, that a pro-neutral aggregation could unluckily affect many of today’s free card users. For example, the Pensioners’ Association writes to the State budget in its consultation exercise that help-seeking groups are set up against each other by paying vulnerable groups for benefits to another vulnerable group. The Pensioners’ Association is very concerned that user payments should not act as an obstacle to seeking health care. The Workers' Party will express strong support for what the Pensioners' Association has done. So I'm going to do something I don't have quite the habit of doing, and it's giving honor to the Progress Party, who in the budget debate with the government parties has put a stop to the increase in the excess, just as the Workers' Party proposed in its alternative budget, by 1 billion. NOK to ensure that the roof remained at NOK 2460. It was only the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that were able to reveal the makeup of the government – as if the sickest should have an advantage. We thought it was completely wrong from the beginning to make it more expensive to be sick, especially under a pandemic. For example, people with diabetes would get an increase in proportion. The Pensioners Association considered that short-term economic considerations became crucial for the government – agree. But once again, an overall committee supports the amendment of the law itself, and as it now exists with the rescue action in the budget agreement, we believe this will be both simpler and better than today's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1014	The Solberg government proposed to merge equity capital items 1 and 2 into one equity card. SV is for it, because it will help many of those who need help the most. SV was strongly opposed to the ceiling of NOK 3 183, as proposed by the government. The government's proposal was to save hundreds of millions of dollars. That's SV against. I was very concerned about what could happen when the government proposed to save money by taking away the sick. That should not happen, and I would like to commend the Progress Party for the removal of the government's proposals. The equity card will be much cheaper, and the government will not save money on the sick. SV has proposed to evaluate the scheme due to the increase in the price proposed by the government, cf. proposal No 1 from SV, which is the only proposal in the case. Once the government has gone away from this, we don't need our proposal. That's why I'm not promoting it. The cuts under the Solberg government have been dramatic. The right-hand parts have cut disability benefits, minimum pensions, children's allowances, redundancy payments, housing allowances, etc. SV has given priority over 7 billion. In the budget for the poorest in the country. It is good that there was agreement between the Progress Party and the Right-wing Government to get cheaper gift cards, but we should like them to also work for all the other groups where they have cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1029	We will come back to this debate again in the context of the Stortinges discussion of the budget, but the draft law that Stortinget has to deal with in this matter is a prerequisite for implementing what is in the State budget and on which the government has agreed with the Progress Party. This is a very important social reform for those in Norway who have the highest health costs. Nothing so significant has been done to protect these since the Bondevik II government introduced a partial 2. It is a pleasure that a unanimous committee, including with regard to the legislative decision, joins these amendments. This will be of great importance for those in our society who have the highest health and self-interest costs, and who often also have poor finances, to get a significantly better protection in the years to come, so this is an important social reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1038	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1055	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1062	First of all, thank you to the Committee for good work in a relatively short time. I am pleased that there is agreement on the possibility of exemption, but that we also agree on the clarifications that should be limited if there is no need. Norway is still in the middle of a pandemic that characterizes everyday life for everyone. This is the most serious crisis in Norway since World War II, and we still have the strict measures introduced early in November. There is no guarantee that similar measures will not be needed even during the winter and spring months ahead of us. This is the backbone of the proposal to extend the derogation provisions of the Health Protection Act until 1 June 2021. It is important to facilitate access to medical devices and personal protective equipment. In order to ensure those who need the most treatment for covid-19, if the infection flares up very and the situation gets serious, health care needs to make its priorities the best possible. In order to do so, adjustments or derogations from some of the provisions of the Patient and User Rights Act may be necessary. I would like to stress that although we are now continuing these exceptions, it is important, as far as it can be done, that it is the normal law that is being followed. I am pleased that a unanimous committee requires an overview of patients with delayed treatment who are still waiting, and that these can be prioritised according to the severity as soon as the capacity is back to normal. We are soon going into a different Christmas with infectious diseases and restrictions on companies and such things, but fortunately the vaccine light at the end of the tunnel is getting lighter and lighter. With that in mind, I hope – and certainly all – that 2021 will be a year when we return to the normal situation, and that this also applies to patient rights and the health care situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1075	The Government proposes – and has the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party on team – to remove the right to user-driven personal assistance, BPA, temporarily until 1 June 2021. SV is opposed to removing this important right. I therefore propose proposal No. 2, which says that the government must immediately return to Stortingen to ensure the right to BPA and protect the paragraph on particularly burdensome care work. Increased infective pressures may lead to overloading of health services, especially in hospitals. More infected and more seriously ill people may require changes to health care priorities, both other obligations and fewer rights for us. SV agrees that we need to have this law to secure our country, but disagree that the right to BPA should be removed. BPA is an equality arrangement for those who need help to live a good and active life. Many users need help to eat, help dress and help meet friends outside. My friend Siri needs BPA all the time. If the state decides that Siri cannot have its BPA people because of more infection, Siri cannot live at home. Then she must be sent to a nursing home, and nurses and health professionals will need to spend more time on Siri than on those who need health care because of the corona. BPA is important for those who need it, but also important for health since BPA relieves the health sector. Health workers should fight against the pandemic, not take over the BPA scheme. SV votes to limit rights under the pandemic, but votes against the removal of the right to BPA and proposes to protect the paragraph on particularly burdensome care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1090	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1095	The Progress Party understands that the government needs a mandate to be able to make different adjustments to patient rights under the Coronapandemic, in which we still stand. So this is only to be used for exceptions, and we all know that the infective situation can change quickly. However, the Progress Party does not support the government's desire to have a mandate to liquidate free treatment choices. Last time the government closed free treatment, it led to unnecessary waiting times and delayed operations. It was frustrating to see how the government refused to accept a helping hand from private actors who wanted to remedy the public health system, and patients who felt that their consultations and operations were being postponed. For example, the LHL hospital had to be downscaling their operations because they did not receive patients. The progress party put a lot of questions about this then, and we're still doing it. The private hospitals are part of the solution also during the coronary apathy. The Progress Party believes that free treatment options are essential in order to avoid the health cows that have built up under this pandemic, and we have had an impact on the state budget for 2021 in order to buy even more capacity from private actors. We want to stick to that line. It is important for patients to ensure that they receive the treatment they need and deserve. It is important to ensure that health cows go down. We therefore propose that the government not be allowed to liquidate free treatment choices according to its own approach. On the day that it becomes necessary, if necessary, the government will have to return to Stortinget with it. I would like to take up with that the proposal tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1106	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen then drew up the proposal put forward by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1111	We're now inside the second wave of the pandemic. Even though we can see light in the tunnel so far, I'm afraid that for the next six months we will also have to live with infection in society and therefore also with the risk of a bloom of infection. That is why I believe there is a need to extend the temporary provisions of the Health Protection Act until 1 June 2021, and I want to explain why. An important reason is the need to ensure access to medical devices, personal protective equipment and medical food. Norway is dependent on imports to meet the need for such products. The availability of medical devices and personal protective equipment has proved to be very demanding as a result of covid-19. A number of countries now have very high rates of infection, and we have experienced unpredictability in infection rates in Norway as well. We are entering a period of increased mobility and social contact. As a result, the risk of infection is increasing all over the world. Increased infection and uncertainty affect the demand for medical devices and personal protective equipment. There is a risk of restricted access to such products and restrictions related to rations and exports may be necessary. There will also be a need to exempt such equipment from the applicable marketing and use requirements. Furthermore, there is a need to extend the home to derogate from the Patient and User Rights Act Chapter 2 and related obligations. The Patient and User Rights Act grants patients and users a number of rights. That is good, but in a crisis situation, the ability of healthcare to make appropriate priorities is limited. I would like to make it clear that it is a condition that the exemptions are necessary to contribute to equivalent access to the necessary health and care services and to the sound and efficient use of available resources. This means that it is necessary to assess whether the exemptions are necessary and whether they are proportionate in view of a health care situation. Derogation from the fundamental right to the necessary health care shall not be granted within a reasonable period of time. We're in a situation where there's a high level of infection, and there's a risk of infection blooming in the future. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the bill promoted by the government. Finally, I would just like to stress that there is no plan to remove the right to user-controlled personal assistance. On the contrary – there is a system that works very well, especially under a pandemic, where there is a limited number of people from whom you receive assistance. I would like to stress most strongly that no one who listens to this debate, after SV's posts now needs to be concerned that this is a right that disappears as a result of the decision of the Stortinget today. I think maybe one should think that in this debate one does not contribute to creating unnecessary fear in a demanding situation for many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1129	I have received many messages and e-mails from those who use BPA. The council said very clearly that they would not remove the use of BPA. If that's right, why would the government temporarily remove the paragraph on BPA?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1134	We won't. What this law gives is an opportunity to remove some patient rights in a very demanding situation. But we haven't reviewed each of those rights, simply because it would require a proportionality assessment in the situation we're currently in. But I need to say that if someone is worried that we're going to take away from people the right to user-driven personal assistance in general, there's not something I see as a very appropriate measure under a pandemic, where limiting the number of one to receive assistance from will be the opposite, namely a well-suited measure to reduce the risk of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1140	That's good. Now I'm a little more happy, after the council said it. But then it's very strange that the government has not proposed to protect this paragraph, because almost everyone who works with BPA is not a health professional. Why do we have to remove this right? It shouldn't be about using these people, because they shouldn't work in hospitals or hospitals and help people who are infected by the corona. They should be with those who need help. Then they can also relieve the health care system. So why has the government not protected this paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1149	There is no suggestion to remove this paragraph. What this case is about is giving the government the opportunity to remove some patient rights in a specific situation, for example. if there is a high level of infection and where healthcare will have capacity problems to address either an assessment of rights or an implementation of rights. As I said, we have not reviewed each paragraph and made that assessment now. Then we would have had to assume what the situation is, and we haven't. But that doesn't mean that people who have BPA, after SV's posts, should be worried about losing this right. I believe that it is very important to state if there are any people who are concerned about this, and if someone has become even more concerned about SV's articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1154	It was nice that the Council of State talked about the whole law, but I want an answer to the question about this paragraph. I don't remember the correct word the council used, but I hope they've read the whole paragraph. The Council of State shall follow the paragraph. When the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Government propose to remove some rights, I hope they have read it carefully. I would like a concrete answer as to why this paragraph should be temporarily removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1161	It shall not be temporarily removed. This case is about giving the government permission to derogate from the Patient and User Rights Act, Chapter 2. The section on which the representative is concerned is covered by that chapter, but that does not mean that all paragraphs under that chapter will be suspended under a pandemic. A concrete assessment of each rating will then be made, and any individual rating to be put on hold, if necessary, must have a very specific justification. Personal user-driven assistance is, as I say, just a system that is likely to help reduce the risk of spread of infection, so it is very unlikely that it will be proportionate to the removal of that right, and it will not be removed either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1166	The President considers it so that the question is then adequately clarified, so we close the line change. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1185	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1192	Thank you to the Committee for a round of things. Three proposals were put forward by the Progress Party. I guess one of them gets a majority. But a majority consisting of SV, the Center Party and the government parties agree on something other than what is proposed. The discussion about testing at the border is a repetition. What's right, what should a do? In the questionnaire yesterday, a few rounds went on what mandatory testing really is, which may seem unclear. In all cases, however, the majority of the Committee feels that the Storting should not regulate the test criteria in Norway in detail. It's mostly justified by the fear of false negatives, which we see from Iceland was a problem there before. I will not go out this debate with too many details. The proposals of the Progress Party are largely not adopted, but we have gathered on something there, while at the same time asking another majority of the government to come back with an up-to-date plan on how to secure the testing capacity around the country. Then I want to add that right now the testing capacity in the country is not a big challenge, but it has been in this pandemic earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1203	Import infection is one of the major risk factors for creating a new wave of infection in Norway. It wrote the Health Directorate based on the Public Health Institute's assessments in June, while the government opened up to exempt workers from quarantine. We could read about that in the Evening Post today. In addition, the Health Directorate wrote: It is important to assess the potential positive effects of reducing the quarantine requirements for work trips against the risk potential, by helping to hit the same industries and the social economy in general even harder if Norway enters a new wave of infection. In the industrial district of Hyllestad in Sogn it was going really bad. We were happy," said the rapporteur, Kjell Eide, in Hyllestad. He describes the quarantine exemption for the government as a risk sport. The workers go to the store, we so early that this was not safe, says the rapporteur. But when general government comes up with such rules, it's hard for a municipality to say no. Since the end of June, almost 2,000 Poles have tested positive. Poland has been the largest infected country in Norway since mid-August. The figures show only what is discovered, and Poland has had one of the lowest test levels in Europe. According to the Health Directorate, four out of five foreign passengers have passed the test station at the Gardermoen since mid-August. Figures from the Swedish Institute of Public Health in September show that only 40 p.m. complied with the quarantine rules. If the import of infection rises again over Christmas, ordinary people's efforts will be in vain. Deputy Health Director Nakstad has stated that it is important to reach this point. In January, many of those who live abroad, but who work in Norway, come back after celebrating Christmas. SAS alone has established more than 50 new year routes. It's naive to think that people won't travel at Christmas. The working party therefore requests the government to introduce mandatory testing at major cross-border and airport crossings, in combination with the quarantine rules established by health authorities. Everyone, both the Center Party and the Government and the Swedish Government, can be wise to follow, but that's now we can take responsibility before it goes that far. We're in a minority proposal in the vote, and I'm going to present it. In addition, we have a loose proposal, proposal No. 3, which I'm also taking up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1222	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1227	In the summer, the government opened up to increased travel activity in and out of Norway, leading to a high level of import infection. In order to facilitate the maintenance of maximum activity while avoiding the spread of infection, we considered that mandatory testing should be carried out for covid-19 when entering Norway and suggested it in August. We believe that this requirement should apply to everyone. We also believe that if you have tested negative for two corona tests, you have to skip the rest of the quarantine period. The NHO has favoured that proposal, which will contribute to fewer cases where healthy people are put into completely unnecessary quarantine. At present, no negative corona testing is required on entry into Norway for Norwegian nationals, for persons holding a residence permit, or for persons in transit. This also does not apply to persons who regularly come to Norway from Sweden and Finland to work or study, to non-residents with a residence permit or to non-residents seeking asylum. Health professionals are also not necessarily subject to an obligation to submit negative corona tests to work in the Norwegian health system. The managing director of healthcare companies may grant health professionals exemptions from quarantine if they are critical, and we have seen that they are using it. The Progress Party believes that all these exceptions are problematic. The government should have put in place effective measures to prevent import contamination before the sharp increase in infection in October. When the government opened up trips between Norway and Europe on 15 July, the government simultaneously removed the entry quarantine for countries and regions that, according to the government’s definition, had a satisfactory infectious situation. A number of countries and regions had far higher rates of infection than Norway at that time, and the measures led to increased imports into Norway. I would also like to point out the embarrassing view when all Norway sat down and followed up on whether the plane from Spain landed on the Gardermoen before midnight on July 25th. If the plane had landed one minute after midnight, all the passengers would have to go into quarantine. The plane landed 20 minutes before the timetable, so none of the passengers had to be quarantined, but the virus does not relate to the clock. The Progress Party believes it is time to introduce mandatory testing for all those who come to Norway, and with that, I would like to address the Progress Party's proposal in the matter. With regard to the solution of the proposal that comes from the Labour Party today, I have some challenges to see what is the real difference between that proposal and what is already from the Committee, the proposals No. 1 and 2. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credential I guess that's the real difference. We may support the proposal subsidiaryly, but I find it difficult to see what the real difference is, and whether this proposal will be supported by a few more, so it does not seem initially to be intentional.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1244	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1249	The progress batch suggests mandatory testing for covid-19 when entering Norway, they ask for a plan to ensure that we can increase testing capacity throughout the country, and they suggest granting exemptions from quarantine obligations for those who are testing negatively for covid-19 on two tests. Centre party will not support proposal No. 1, on mandatory testing at the border, nor proposal No. 3, for exemption from quarantine. Instead, we are behind the plural proposal in the setting, to ask the government to consider a model for increased testing at the border, which along with the entry quarantine can contribute to lower infection in Norway, where one also includes the experience from Iceland. The centre party believes that entry quarantine requirements are the most important measure for managing import infection. There is reason to ask questions about whether the control of quarantine has been good enough, and not least, after reading today's Evening Post about the large quarantine release and the way it happened, contrary to medical advice, it seemed critical. That foreign drivers with exceptions from the quarantine obligation are also allowed to run cabotage in Norway for up to one week, I also thought that I was completely incomprehensible. The centre party is not fundamentally against mandatory testing if that is what was going to happen to prevent increased infection in Norway, of course not. But in this case we have listened to professional advice. If such an interventional measure is to be introduced, it must be in line with its usefulness. Mandatory testing has no medical basis. The Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate feel mandatory testing of people from red countries will not be particularly important for the disease situation in Norway. Negative testing is only a snapshot of the eye. The person may become contagious after a short period of time. The goal of such a border mass testing must be less contagious in Norway and not just extra testing. The problem today is the high number of false negative tests that have to be handled. The experience from Iceland shows that 25 pst. by the negative test population positive after five to six days. This shows that the negative tests are not sufficient. If new, more reliable, rapid tests are developed, this image may change, but at least we believe that this proposal will not be of much use and will actually lead to more infection, not less infection, in Norway. The centre lot is also negative until the Progress Party proposes to be able to test one out of the quarantine requirement. I am pleased that the majority in the setting is to ensure increased testing and testing capacity for risk groups, and to increase testing of both added and residents in hospitals in particular, in line with professional advice. The average age of those who die of covid-19 is 82 years. Six out of ten deaths in health institutions, such as Sick home. It is for these that we isolate ourselves and take action, and of course they must be at the forefront when it comes to testing and preventing infection. The centre party will not support the new Labour Party proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1264	In the evening post today, we have seen how wrong it can be when the government bases its anti-infection councils on lobbying instead of on professional advice from the FHI and the Health Directorate. Foreign workers, employed in unprofessional enterprises, have been granted wide derogations from the quarantine provisions. This has led to import contamination. Once again, we have been stressed that the rules on the protection of infection are highly political, and we are therefore pleased that the Progress Party has promoted this matter for the Stortinget. It would have been even better if the government had done it as a norm, and that they also provided the basis. Now we're dependent on the Evening Post reading texts between rich people and government members. However, we do not support all the proposals. SV does not support the proposals for mandatory testing of all, even from countries without infection, or for exemptions from quarantine, proposed by the Progress Party. SV would like to test more, including those who are going to be in quarantine, but SV would give priority to the resources of those who are in hospital homes, and to people who are moving around and can infect others, rather than those who are going to be in quarantine. Instead, we promote proposals for more and better testing and follow-up of quarantine. Quarantine is more important than testing to stop the infection. SV is clear that we're going to have the quarantine. SV is opposed to the proposal of the Progress Party on quarantine release after two negative tests. We're in a pandemic. SV is opposite a release, because we know that people can get negative test results, even if they're coronary. Karatene is more important than testing. Testing does not remove contamination. It's the quarantine that can stop the infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1277	We've waited to live in an increasingly interconnected world. Among other things, Schengen cooperation has made it easy to cross borders. However, all this has become a little more difficult now, since the risk of bringing coronary infections to Norway has increased. Different countries in the world have opted for different strategies to manage the virus in their country. In Norway, we have tried to adapt the control mechanisms to the situation of infection. After a summer with easier measures and perhaps also a feeling of a normal situation, the second wave came over us beyond the fall. Therefore, stricter rules were introduced relating to quarantine and testing requirements. But then we've had more examples that it can take some time from being in contact with someone who's infected by the corona, before you test positive yourself, and that's exactly why ten days of quarantine is so important. Iceland is among the countries that have offered tests to all arriving, and it turns out that 25 pst. of those who test negative on arrival, test positive five to six days later. Testing on arrival and receiving a negative answer would therefore be a false security for many. The 10-day entry quarantine is much more important to prevent the spread of import infection. We still have a high infection rate situation in parts of the country. Over the fall we have seen local outbreaks come suddenly, and they can become large. A good test capacity is important, but it's also important that we all keep remembering that we're holding the meter, that we have to be at home with symptoms, that and we have to test ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1288	Some batches in Stortinget ask the government to introduce mandatory testing upon entry into Norway. I consider mandatory testing primarily to be a very interventional measure. Measures under the IPD shall be clearly medically justified, necessary for the purpose of the protection of infectious diseases and shall appear to be appropriate after an overall assessment. In addition, emphasis shall be placed on the voluntary participation of the actions concerned. The Health Directorate does not believe that compulsory testing has clear medical grounds or is necessary for the protection of the disease. Entry quarantines are less invasive and are considered sufficient to prevent the importation of infection. Mandatory testing may lead to false security. It usually takes several days before an infected person has a detectable virus. Thus, persons tested negative on entry may nevertheless develop disease. The Government has introduced a number of other measures from 9 November to reduce imports. An additional measure of mandatory testing may result in increased resistance to the measures of good digestion and thus be counterproductive. I therefore believe that the Storting should not adopt this now. Then new knowledge or new test methods can change the evaluations. Since the beginning of the pandemic, testing has been one of the core measures of the disease protection strategy. The Health Directorate follows the test capacity in the municipalities and at the laboratories. These notifyers now, with few exceptions, that they have the capacity to test in line with the target requirements of the health authorities. A separate project is established to follow-up and ensure sufficient test capacity throughout the whole chain from sampling to response. The pilot with rapid tests has been evaluated, and the tests, which have now been sent across the country, contribute to further testing capacity, although access here is not unlimited either. I want to look at the overall testing capacity and strategy, including: in the light of the evaluation of the rapid tests. All with symptoms of covid-19 should be tested. For hospital residents there should be a particularly low threshold to suspect covid-19. In case of outbreaks in health institutions, persons without symptoms should also be tested. Hospital staff shall always have a low test threshold. In municipalities or urban areas with a very high spread of infection, the Institute of Public Health recommends, provided that sufficient testing capacity is provided, that sick homes provide regular screening of staff before start-up and every week thereafter, so that infection can be caught. Similarly, testing before start-up and after seven days is recommended for personnel who have been in areas with very high spread of infection during the last 10 days. In the event of high levels of infection in society, it may also be appropriate to test visitors. The use of rapid tests in nursing homes is a condition that will be assessed in the context of the review of the overall test strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1307	To the evening post today, the Council of State says that, following an exemption from 10 weeks of quarantine for EEA workers, the infection of imports did not spread to the community. It's a pretty bombastic claim when we look at the numbers of the Public Health Institute. More than 2000 Poles, Lithuanians and other foreign workers have come to Norway and then tested positively. More than a hundred municipalities have been infected from Poland. 38 pst. of the 40 largest outbreaks started with guest workers. The government opened up to everyone, and the fact is that most of us know very little about it. For 77 pst. by those infected for week 46, the health authorities do not know where they were infected. My question is whether the Minister of Health is still in favour of his statements on where the infection comes from, when the numbers show us a completely different reality, and the truth is that we know too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1312	There must be several misunderstandings in the representative's line. Firstly, no exemption has been granted for quarantine provisions. What has been done is that there is an opportunity to work during the quarantine period – but with the leisure quarantine – for persons who have an employer who takes responsibility for an appropriate place of quarantine, tests on arrival and after five days. On a negative first test, a person can work while in a leisure quarantine. The large group referred to by the representative in his statement is not covered by this derogation, while for those covered by the derogation, we see little spread of infection in society. It also appears in the Evening Post article, which says just these words, that it is gratifying to see that this infection has come into the community to a small extent, and it also appeared in one of the latest reports of the Institute for Public Health. So the line that the representative wants to take from the limited exemption that some industry has got, and to the spread of infection that has happened lately, it's terribly difficult to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1325	I'm going to ask the Council of State to describe what the limited exemption to some industrial enterprises is, because it's probably not that you can grant exemptions to some industrial enterprises – you give it to everyone. It will also come out well in the Evening Post case. So I would like to say to this with professional advice: the Health Directorate was actually for mandatory testing of all those who put in quarantine hotels, even though the government did not introduce it. The Council of State now chose not to listen to the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health when they strongly warned against this exemption. But when the health authorities have not come to the State Council, the Council of State has the opportunity to ask for advice. Should you not be more in advance in this matter, in line with the quotations from Assistant Health Director Espen Nakstad last week, where he thought it was important to be able to detect infection at the border, and mentioned these new saliva tests as an important supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1332	For the first part of the question: Those who can use this derogation are those who have an employer who provides both the appropriate place of quarantine and takes responsibility for the implementation of the test regime that I described. This does not apply to all work immigrants to Norway, which one could get the impression in the representative’s first line. Paragraph 2: If you read the recommendations given to the government by the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, it is important not only to read a selected sample but also to read them all. It is quite right that in one of the first reports, when the proposal for a quarantine hotel was presented, it was recommended testing. But in the last report, which is the basis of the government's recommendation, it was not recommended testing. I think I forgot the very last question to the representative, so I would like the representative to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1341	The government allows workers to work already after the first test if it is negative. Exemptions from the obligation to test and quarantine health professionals are also made. Worker and contracting entity may choose a test as an alternative to the entry quarantine. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that two negative corona tests at day seven have a greater risk than the tidal quarantine?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1346	It was good that I got this question, because now I also remember the last question from the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol. These two things are connected. We are in the lead both in the case of testing regimes and in the case of any restrictions to reduce import infection. Some of the new measures were presented at the press conference yesterday, and as I said in my article, we also have a full review of the test regime, and not least that we can now take into account that we have actually approved rapid tests. The type of questions raised by the representative will be assessed in that context. There we have not reached a final conclusion, and therefore I think it is wise, as the majority in the European Parliament is doing today, not to go for any final conclusions, but to ask us to consider this further. We're going to do that in line with Decision I. That mission has already been given in line with the decision that is being taken today, as the SV and the Central Party are also behind it. Those assessments will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1353	Now I realized that the Minister of Health answered Kjerkol's question and was not signed, so I read it again: The government allows workers to work already the first day after a negative test. Derogations from the quarantine period for health professionals are also granted. Worker and contracting entity may choose the test as an alternative to the entry quarantine. My question to the Council of State is – and I ask the Minister of Health to answer my question: Does the Council of State think that two negative corona tests at day seven have a higher risk than the tidal quarantine?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1360	That's what I tried to answer, but it might not be quite clear that that's what I was responding to. That kind of question is very professional, and it makes continuous assessments of, based on the knowledge that we get about the different test methods. But when the representative says that today we have an exception after a negative test from day one, it is only related to those countries that are green. Such countries are not in Europe today, and that means that that exception no longer exists precisely because it represented the exception, with the infection situation that we now have, too much risk. In any case, health professionals will be tested and followed up by the employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1365	At first I want to say that I think it is very good that there is now a new practice in testing in hospitals. I have requested that. It's actually part of the one Romantal decision today – so it's very good. I could have had lines on lots, but it is a proposal for mandatory testing we are going to discuss today. The Council of State refers in its response to the Committee on Iceland, which has put in place a system for selecting between testing and getting shorter quarantine and going into longer quarantine. In the proposal for a decision in the vote, we also refer to the experience from Iceland, so I wonder if the Council of State could do something for how he thinks we can take advantage of the experience from Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1375	The experience from Iceland after the first phase was that the system you had at that time was not a system that was suitable to prevent imports from Iceland. So it's also that we're still getting new experience in this area. We're getting new test methods, and that also means we're getting new test capacities. So I believe that the intention of what is in the I of the Decision is a very good intention. We have also already given such a mission to the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute and will, among other things. could make such assessments based on international experience. But I see that what lies here is something other than mandatory testing, because compulsory testing will mean that you have to test yourself to get into the country at all, as I understand at least the representative of the Progress Party. The representative from the Workers' Party talks about this in a slightly different way, because the representative from the Workers' Party is talking about testing at the main border stations, and then it cannot be a mandatory individual test requirement. Because there is something quite different from what is contained in the I Decision, where one sees the test regime at the border in connection with the quarantine rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1384	I would like to ask you a question about cabotage execution. Because I have been informed that a centre under the pandemic still allows foreign drivers who have exemptions from the quarantine requirement to run cabotage in Norway domestically, just as usual, up to three trips on a week. We've got a lot of feedback on this from people, who wonder how safe it is. Otherwise, when we have quite strict rules, for example: the ban on visits to hospitals, or at least visitation restrictions, responds to it. My question is: is this something that is being discussed – whether or not to allow a cabotage operation in Norway under a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1391	Now I have to admit that cabotage driving is not my strong side, but what I can say about is that there are some exceptional rules for the transportation of goods. It is simply because it is a critical social function, and rules in the area that had prevented goods from arriving in Norway, could have major consequences for life and health, but also reduced our ability to handle the pandemic. For example, we need equipment, medicines, etc. above the border. What the conditions are when you give that kind of exception to possibly pick up goods in Norway, I almost have to ask that the representative ask a written question about that, because I do not take that on the stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1398	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1405	In addition to representing SV, I also represent the best county, Akershus. Ullensaker municipality in Akershus has been given more work because Oslo airport is located in the municipality. SV believes that municipalities with more visitors, such as Ullensaker, should receive better assistance from the government than they have received. SV has written an important comment on the matter, together with the Senterpartiet, that municipalities like Ullensaker should get better help. I am surprised that the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which have and have had the rapporteur in Ullensaker, have not supported this comment. If they had supported this, the comment would have been given to the majority. So the Labour Party and the Advance Party have not supported it. They've failed people in Ullensaker. This municipality has received several tens of millions of kroner with additional costs. This municipality and others with more visitors should receive better assistance from the government. I am also a little happy, because SV has been concerned that it should be possible to follow the quarantine regulations. I am pleased that the government has now turned around and follows SV that even those who are renting should be able to have quarantine in the appropriate place, not just those who own it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1414	I must start by using the representative Wilkinson's own words. I think he said he's amazed. In the paper he says he's surprised. In the Austrian magazine we can read that the representative Wilkinson says that he has made a proposal that Ullensaker municipality will receive more money. That's wrong. The comment to which the representative Wilkinson refers is part of a note in which the SV and the Central Party explain why they will not be involved in mandatory testing at the border. So this makes me startled and maybe a little pissed off. This is wrong. The working party has called for us to have testing on the border and for this to be done under state control. That's what will help Ullensaker municipality. Now I see that I've been using one minute already, so I'll see if I get to the goal of what I'm really going to say. This summer we got the taste of life again as it should be. We got paid for the big job we did in ours. The infection was low in our country. It was delicious. But then it began to come from abroad, many planes. In the evening post, we can read that from July it landed almost 80 aircraft with confirmed infected on board Norwegian airports. The arrangements for testing the limits were not in place at that time. I visited the Gardermoen in the municipality of Ullensaker and called for help to the municipality of Ullensaker to establish a test station, and that the state had to take the bill for it. I asked several questions about import infection to the Minister of Health at the beginning of August. I will not refer to the questions or answers, but just take the very last thing the Minister for Health said in his answer: ‘We are closely following the infection situation in Europe, and we are taking several measures to prevent imports into Norway.’ This has not been followed up by the government. It disappoints me, especially after the case we could read about in the evening post yesterday, about how one has worked to grant exemptions for workers who came into Norway from red countries. During the autumn I have had three children who have been in quarantine due to close contact with other infected persons. That means they've missed school, play with friends and practice. Along with many other parents, I missed following my first grade in the first day of school this year. We'll survive, but I thought it was pretty sad. It's time for a mandatory testing at the border, in combination with a good quarantine code that allows us to get back control of the infection in our country, and that we can again feel the taste of the good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1434	The President understands that emotions live their own lives, but a little more parliamentary expression than "cursed" is a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1439	The question of compulsory testing is demanding. But then we also live jamming me in very difficult times. I have to say, I am a little surprised at some of the things that Höie was about as Minister of Health in her contribution. One thing he mentioned was that mandatory testing is perceived as a very invasive measure. But what in all days have we lived under since the beginning of March? As a population, we have lived under very invasive measures. Then getting a stick up your nose may not be the most intrusive measure in that way. So Hoie was in the sense that mandatory testing can lead to resistance in the population and fear of sinking up the measures. Well, at the end of October, Opinion had conducted a survey there 93 pst. the population agreed to the question of mandatory border testing. For my own part, it has felt a little like we as the population have been sitting in a leaky boat that we have tried to break free from the corona virus, while the government has allowed new holes to be made in the boat by a new infection crossing the borders both through the exceptions from the quarantines that have been for foreign workers and through a relatively weak attitude to the question of border testing. This summer, among others, The working party was very clear on the track and said that we had to establish test stations at the major airports and border crossings. It took time, but it came into place. Now we see the same thing in the question of compulsory border testing: the Minister of Health and the government parties hesitate and drier. I think that's unfortunate, because it means we have to live with others, well so intrusive, actions in the rest of the population because we've now had an increased infection situation again after you released this this summer. For my part, I cannot see that this is the most incisive measure in any way. On the contrary, it can contribute to the prevention of other interventional measures. So to the representative Becquerad, who pointed out that testing on arrival would be able to give, as I understood it, about 25 pst. negative answers. Yes, it is important to take seriously. But that also indicates that you get 75 pst from that calculation. positive answers. You can notice the sum of the proposals The Labour Party is in, because we want this test in combination with a quarantine code, not as a substitute. We must also be able to say that it has been demanding to follow up on whether people follow these quarantine rules. Therefore, it is important that we lean towards more than one measure, and that is why the Workers' Party is responsible for mandatory limit testing in the situation we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1458	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1463	Moflag said it was difficult to support this comment because it was part of other comments. It's completely wrong. It's on page 4: ‘These members refer to the fact that Ullensaker municipality has been given more work because Oslo airport is located in the municipality. These members believe that municipalities that have more visitors should receive better assistance from the government than they have received.’ We could have had a majority if the Labour Party and the Advance Party had gone into this comment. The centre party and SV are in the comment, and I'm not sure why you haven't supported this, because when there is a majority, the government has to follow up what the Storting believes. So I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1473	The President requests that the speech be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1479	In the reply, the health minister made a point because health professionals have to document negative coronary tests, but that is wrong. Health professionals may be exempted from the quarantine obligation, even without having a negative coronary test. That's confirmed to the Minister of Health on 30 November, and it's not very long ago. All they need is to demonstrate that employers define them as personnel in critical social functions. That's what I'm wondering, when we have the experience from this summer fresh in memory. In the summer, there were several cases where imported health professionals carried infection to Norwegian hospitals, directly into the vulnerable groups we have these measures to protect. Doctors and nurses who were exempted from quarantine, who were sick when they arrived in Norway, started working at Norwegian hospitals, and this led to the closure of Norwegian hospital wards. I think it pretty well shows that we have to have a mandatory test for everyone at the borders. I wonder if the Minister of Health will take import infection seriously. Mandatory testing for all at the border would be an effective and effective solution to stop import contamination. As the Minister of Health himself acknowledges that testing is a good alternative to the entry candidates for employers and employers, I think it is a little strange that he does not believe that it can also apply to most people. Two negative tests on day 7 must be as accurate as the ten-day quarantine, but the economic savings here are enormous. If workers in Norway can test twice negative for a coronary test in seven days, they are healthy and it is unnecessary to allow healthy people to remain unnecessarily quarantined for a long time. That is why, in the Progress Party, we have tabled a proposal today, proposal No. 2, which we seem to be left alone about, that if you've tested negative for two coronary tests after seven days, you get rid of the rest of the quarantine obligation. The Labour Party has promoted a loose proposal which I initially said we could support subsidiaryly. I don't see the point of that. It is covered by proposal No. 1 and 2, which is already in the committee's position, and since no new parties have chosen to support the solution proposed by the Workers' Party, we are firmly committed to our own solution, which is to introduce mandatory coronation testing for all and to ensure that healthy people do not need to be unnecessarily quarantined.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1492	When the population, to the extent that someone is sitting and watching this at home, hears this debate, I don't think there are very many people who understand what's really going on here. We've seen in these months – nine months it's probably gradually – a government that's been handling this with the pandemic in a fantastic way. The government has handled the ICs in an exemplary way. The information agency has been managed – in which I record that the Centre Party will cut in terms of appropriations for the Health Directorate – in a way that has not been done before in Norwegian political history. The relationship between professionalism and political authority has been managed in a way that other countries can envy us. Measures that have been unisoned in the population have been initiated. So it's a trust in the government that happens very rarely. You've had a careful opening. Well, some parts of this might have been different – some of the measures might initially have been different if you knew what you know today. One has undergone a test, and one has now gradually started a test capacity that seems to succeed in ordering rapid tests, which is completely in line with what we want. We are in the forefront in terms of vaccines – also globally, for saying so. I don't know if there's any expression in Norwegian, but "the proof of the pudding is in the eating," the English say. As a result, Norway is in the forefront, both in terms of handling and in terms of the significance of this pandemic. Then you sit here and hear that someone will have a greater degree of opening, and someone will have a greater degree of closedness. But then the government maneuvers in the middle of this in a sensible and balanced way that has great confidence in the population. There is one expression that some parts of the opposition should notice, and that is the word ‘proportionality’. It is not proportionate to carry out mandatory testing at the border in the format that the Progress Party will have today, but it may also have understood during this debate. We stand well in the proposal that is on the table today, which seems to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1503	There are some questions that have come up, as I think it is okay to answer. The first is from a representative from the Workers' Party who has a very clear opinion and asks why one argues at all that compulsory testing may be too invasive. It is enough not to think that mandatory testing is not an intervention, which is in a sense the unusual thing to say. If the representative wishes to make a reference to it, a rewinding may return to the party leader’s debate of August, where the representative’s own party leader, Jonas Gahr Støre, immediately replied to this proposal that this is a far too far-reaching proposal that health tests in Norway should in principle be voluntary. It's a very important principle, and noting that principle is not a simple question, as one might get the impression in the posts of the representative. I believe that his party leader had a very good spinal reflex against this proposal. That doesn't mean we can't do it in any situation, but I would nevertheless stress that one should reflect on what it is in the word ‘mandatory’, because when one hears posts from the Workers' Party, one talks about mandatory testing at some border stations. But it cannot be compulsory testing, because then you can choose which border station to pass. Then it's not mandatory testing. When it's mandatory, it has to have a consequence. If, for example: This means that if Norwegian citizens and people legally residing in Norway do not get tested, I think most people will understand that this is an extremely interventional measure. But what should be the reaction if you don't get to be tested, if you describe this as mandatory? These are very fundamental and important questions, and I think it is a little surprising when one goes so high on the track and over so long has argued for this proposal, that one does not find any reflection on these questions, either from the Progress Party or from the Workers' Party. In the case of health professionals, it is true that they may be exempted from negative testing on arrival, but that is because they are covered by the regime that the employer has to test before starting to work, and work with mouthbands until the next negative test. This is not generally for health professionals; this will be in situations where the option is that, for example: Food departments are being closed or emergency services are lacking personnel, so that not entering the country can have negative consequences for our ability to provide good health care to the population. They are under a strong monitoring regime, and the examples that the representative drew before health professionals were examples before the regime for health professionals that we now have. With regard to these questions, there is a difference between those who come to the country and who are under the control of an employer and those who go in and out of the country on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1518	In this debate, I disagree with and disagree with the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad when he honours the government's management of the pandemic and opposes compulsory testing. The government has done a lot of good in managing the pandemic, but I'm critical that it's done too little to limit the import rate, and in particular, it's done too little to maintain the quarantine requirement. What appeared in the evening post today about the way this happened, I thought it was quite alarming. In this case, the central party agrees with the government party that compulsory testing is not a wise suggestion in the current situation. I think it's strange that we can have a political debate on something that is actually quite professional, because when the Institute of Public Health and the Directorate of Health say that they consider that compulsory testing of people from red countries will not have a particular impact on the disease situation in Norway, it's a bit artificial to go out very hard politically during a notion that this is what will limit the import centre. I am also critical of the fact that the batches proposed are unclear about the quarantine requirement. For me and for the Center Party, the quarantine requirement is the important thing. We want extra testing, but it has to be combined with quarantine requirements, otherwise it won't have any value. I am pleased that there is a majority for this proposal in the Chamber today, and that the Council of State has promised that he has already begun a follow-up of what will be able to have multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1527	There is no doubt that compulsory testing is not a simple question. But precisely because it is not a simple question to say yes to, it should not be a simple question for the majority in this Chamber to say no to. The Council of State refers to the situation in August. We're now in December, and there's been a lot of progress in the infectious disease situation since August. I can assure the Minister of Health that the treatment of this matter is well anchored in our party in this way. It was very interesting to listen to the representative from the left. He submitted a fantastic application for a possible post as Minister of Propaganda. It was words like ‘reasonable’, ‘balanced’, ‘phantastic’, ‘equal’, ‘unisonic population uprising’ and ‘entirely in line with what we might wish for’. So he finally said that the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Then I just want to add: remember not to order another beer if you're going to order that pudding here in Oslo, because that's the way we're still in a rather demanding situation. Much has been done right, a lot has been done well in our country, but it must be possible, hopefully also for the Left, to reflect on where we can get even better to stop the infection in our country. I am convinced that the issue of border infection is one of those areas where there is actually something to pick up that does not involve further intervention for the population here in Norway and here in Oslo, but that can bring down the infection. I hope that the majority will reflect on as we now approach the possibility of eating this Christmas pudding, well to notice without alcohol at Oslo's restaurants because the situation is actually so serious in our country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1536	It is the rapporteur's job to sum up the debate, and I would like to sum it up as simply as if we should be happy it is the government that is responsible for implementing the disease protection measures. I think we in the Health Committee today have demonstrated that the Health Committee is not going to drag these debates too far, and the last post shows that this is a lot about semantics and a lot of other things. Yes, the representative Grimstad uses a lot of big words, but I'm very much in agreement with him. It's not propaganda to point out that a lot has gone very well. There are some difficult balances to be taken, but when the Workers' Party is not even able to tell us what they mean by compulsory, which is at least something quite different from what the Advance Party believes mandatory, this becomes almost a parody. We also have to remember that those who came in to work did it to keep the wheels going. It was to keep the hospitals going. Like a party leader, I travel around and drink coffee and talk to people and look at this country I'm so happy in. What I see is that oil platforms and wind power installations are being built, sheep are being slaughtered, so we get stick meat, and very many of these jobs had not gone around without us picking up labour. Wilkinson's talking about rich people. That's actually the key to our having a working life, for businesses to walk around, and that's the reasons the government has to pukka – excuse me, President, it's probably not a proper expression – to take, and also take into account society. If you only look at infectious diseases, we should shut it all down, but how would that have been Norway we're all so happy about? We didn't even have anyone to cook the coffee for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1547	It's probably not registered as unparliamentary, but it's possible it will now. It's possible to find words other than 'pukka have to', I think. The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1554	I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's statement on this situation in Stortinget earlier this autumn, when the representative Marit Arnstad of the Senterpartiet said: 'The centre party agrees with those who have said that the import centre needs to be reduced and that mandatory border testing is now necessary.' It has not been very long since, so I wonder what has done that the centre party has changed its position. Most people support the proposal of the Progress Party for mandatory testing, and it is about reducing the import infection. I want to make it clear that with that test, of course, we have a quarantine obligation, but by having tested negative two times on a coronary test at the seventh day, you're as sure as by performing a ten-day quarantine. However, it is ensured that healthy people are not put into unnecessary quarantine, while at the same time preventing import infection, and it has been the most important thing for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1561	I'm going to try to stay within the parliamentary vocabulary, but when the representative Mørland stands here and presents me as a kind of comedian Ali on behalf of the government, I just want to say that trust in the government has been – another saying that the representative would like to repeat from this pulpit – deafening. For it is 80 pst., or perhaps more than 80 pst., who have had confidence in the government's actions in the context of this pandemic crisis. It's awesome. It's been about cabotage. I'm not an expert on cabotage either, but early in this crisis I got a phone from a new rapporteur in North Norway who expressed concern about the large number of trailers that crossed the border from Finland and from Sweden to transport fish out of Norway. He believed that these drivers brought with them infection. So it turns out, in order to make a long story brief, that this has had little impact on the infection situation in Norway at all. It just illuminates the word that I drew out last time, proportionality. It was not proportionate to stop that transport, because it would in a double sense have stopped the wheels in Norway. It's an example of how this government has handled this. I was in doubt that time, but I think the government handled this in a wonderful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1568	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1573	To the Progress Party and the question that the representative of Marit Arnstad gave a positive opinion on compulsory testing in the distribution: that is absolutely true. I myself was positive about it, in fact – to be completely honest, as we're going to be in the Storting. That's how we look into the issues, we're working on the issues. And after seeing what the Council of State said in this case, what it says is that 25 pst. of the tests are false negative, the Institute of Public Health does not recommend it, the Directorate of Health does not recommend it, and it will not be of any particular benefit – then we think it would be better to get a plural proposal for increased testing. And we've never agreed that this could weaken the quarantine requirement, which is the premise of the Progress Party's proposal. So that's why, and I'm very happy with the plural proposal that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1583	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1600	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1607	The Covid-19 pandemic has updated the need for sufficient intensive capacity. Norway has about the same number in intensive care facilities as 10 years ago. Regional Intensive Investigation the need for intensive beds will increase by 25-30 pst. towards 2040 but there are several uncertainties in this calculation. The distribution shows that Norway today has lower rates of intensities than countries with which comparison is natural. The draft representative proposes to increase intensive capacity in Norway in order to maintain preparedness both in a normal situation and in future pandemics and other health crises. The proposals cover both training and recruitment of health professionals for intensive medicine, a national overview and a mandatory escalation plan, and a review of the hospital financial system to ensure intensive capacity and ensure that new hospitals are built large enough, with the area to increase intensive capacity, available information on intensive capacity and preparedness, and ensuring a holistic organisation of intensive medicine in Norwegian hospitals. Staff shortages are currently seen as a greater deficiency than lack of equipment when intensive preparedness is involved. Today is 40 pst. by finished specialists in anaesthesia imported from abroad, and there is also a high need for further training in intensive care. The Government Party and the Advance Party are behind a number of proposals to ask the government to review all aspects of the intensive capacity of hospitals after the covid-19 pandemic, including private ones, so that health services are prepared for crisis situations involving increased patient intrusion. For the Center Party's part, we thought this was a very defensive proposal. The fact that the government party and the Progress Party are still unable to formulate a goal of building up intensive capacity in the country, but only want a review, is too weak. The representative's proposal and the proposals that will receive the Central Party's solid support. No professional environment is in doubt: intensive capacity and preparedness must be strengthened. The professional environment is puzzled that new hospitals are being built with too little space, so that the work on infectious diseases becomes difficult. Ein is concerned about the lack of Norwegian education by specialists. One is concerned about the structure and organisation, missing statistics and overview of the number of places that one actually has. As you know, the Minister of Health in May had to come back to Stortingen after having misinformed about the number of intensities available. So the centre party supports all the proposals that have been put forward, and with that, I take up the proposals of which the centre party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1624	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1629	Norwegian intensive capacity has been at rest for many years. So we have the same figure in intensive care facilities as 10 years ago, despite the fact that demand for health care and intensive care has increased. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the need for intensification is increasing. It is intended to be an increase of between 25 and 30 pst. towards 2040. We have, as has also been pointed out, a lower figure of intensities per 100,000 inhabitants than is natural to compare with. It would be thought that a pandemic that challenges our intensive capacity was enough to awaken the government, but not even a pandemic has such an effect, since they are now rejecting these proposals to increase the intensive capacity of our common public health service. The Government and the Advance Party will not assume that more specialists must be trained, and that more beds must be available, for times of crisis as well as for normal times. Today there are about 240 patients in Norwegian intensive care units. 40 of these have been shown to be covid-19. Increasing the capacity of intensive care is not just about preparedness, it is about the security of ordinary people and their relatives even when we are not dealing with acute pandemic preparedness. It should not be thought to be necessary to emphasise it, but intensive treatment can be carried out either by anyone or anywhere. Even the ideological starting point of the Advance Party can't do anything about it. The proposal for the Progress Party is directly irresponsible. Intensive capacity requires an entire hospital with specialist nurses, anaesthetics, internal physicians and health professionals. Private healthcare providers are not rigged to help increase Norwegian intensive capacity. Intensive treatment is expensive; it requires the presence of specialised intensive personnel 24 hours a day, heavy infrastructure and specialised equipment. Transferring responsibility to a private actor does not give a single new intensive nurse; for training of these, it is the public that takes care of, so it will not help to solve the challenges for the future. It is now time to listen to the professionals who have been yelling for a long time. Action to increase intensive capacity is urgently needed. Since the rapporteur put forward the proposals in the vote, she also promoted the proposal of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1644	Of course, Norway needs to train more nurses. The Progress Party has pointed this out for years. Norwegian universities and colleges are failing their full social mission when they are unable to prioritise sufficient places of study in the labour and business studies needed. Instead, we are in the situation we are doing today, with a great lack of nurses all over the country. The very core wall of the Norwegian health system is based on imports of health professionals — with the challenges it poses. While there is no disagreement on the need to increase the number of nursing and special care places, there are almost 300,000 students in Norwegian universities and colleges today. These places of study need to be given better priority. In addition to increasing and increasing study provision, we in the Progress Party believe that Norwegian universities and higher education institutions need to give priority to the provision of study facilities that correspond to the needs of the labour market. That ear has neither the Right nor the Workers' Party listened to. If we don't do anything about this, we'll still be totally dependent on imports in the future. It is pointless, as thousands of Norwegian young people are applying for these courses, but are today being rejected because of lack of study places. The government believes that the government must review all conditions surrounding the hospital’s intensive capacity and preparedness and ensure that it is good enough. But here too the private ones have to be assessed. If there is a need to improve intensive capacity, it is necessary to consider whether there are tasks that private hospitals can assist with, or whether it is too advanced for today or next year. I record that the Workers ’ Party has fallen heavy on my chest that I mean. I therefore show that the LHL hospital already on 7 February this year informed the Public Health Institute that they were ready to empty the hospital and turn it into a coronary hospital if necessary. The hospital had 13 intensive sites and could be converted to more to free up capacity for coronary patients. In March, the LHL hospital at Gardermoen built a corona hospital because of the large number of travelers at Oslo airport. Within nine hours, it was possible for the private hospital to establish a fully infectious compartment with 68 rooms for the isolate of travellers with influenza symptoms at Oslo airport. It's impressive. The LHL hospital itself said they were ready to assist even if the healthcare system needed intensive treatment, and to join the corona doughnut. I don't think you should be so afraid of private actors and all that they can do. You just can't have so ideological skyscrapers that you refuse to allow private people to contribute more in the future. With that, I would recommend the recommendation of the majority of the committee. We agree with many of the objectives of the draft representative, but not necessarily the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1659	Then the representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has made the positions of the Progress Party clear. The vote will then take a break in the debate to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1677	The size is then ready to go to voting. First, there is a vote on the remaining items from Tuesday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e1691	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Peter Frølich, on behalf of the Right and Advance Party proposal No 5, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party During the debate, the representative Jenny Klinge, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposed that the matter be referred back to the Committee. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2199	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2211	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘I In Law 13 August 1915 No. 5 concerning the courts, the fifth paragraph of Section 19 shall be replaced by the following: The king may lay down detailed rules on the distribution of cases in the courts, including the distribution between courts. II The law shall apply from the time of the king’s decision.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Section 22 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall be replaced by the following: The Kingdom’s division into the jurisdiction of the courts is determined by the King. [[Legal Circuits]] Changes in the legal systems shall be submitted to the Grand total’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The first paragraph of Section 25 of the Court of Justice shall be replaced by the following: The king shall determine the place where the courts shall have their permanent courts. Changes in the permanent courts shall be made to the Grand Duchy.» The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2252	Here it's wrong. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2264	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2278	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all courts remain and are staffed. In the case of courts which currently have four permanent jurisprudences or less, the level of the current number of annual works relating to the core activity shall be maintained.» Here too, the Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2298	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting with final proposals for changes in the court structure and changes in the judiciary in accordance with the practice that minor changes should be submitted to the Stortinget and major changes should be submitted as a case in point, where the consequences of decisions taken by the Stortinget link to the Innst. [[2020-2021]] 134 L om Prop. [[2020-2021]] 11 L has been prepared in advance and sent on a hearing.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2346	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2401	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e2411	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3535	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3545	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3557	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Torgeira Knag County, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 6-8, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement measures providing access to short-term liquidity pending payments from the general business compensation scheme and any grant scheme for enterprises severely affected by local infection protection measures. In particular, it is requested that the SME Loan Guarantee Facility be extended to guarantee 100 pst. percentage of loans that advance compensation through the Loan Guarantee Facility. Such loans shall be repaid shortly after receipt of compensation.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a turnover-based grant scheme for establishments which are severely affected by local infection protection measures and are required to close or be exposed to other highly invasive local measures. The grant is paid on application and is calculated as a share of the turnover for the previous year in the period during which the measures last. For enterprises which were not started at the same time of the previous year, the grant is calculated on the basis of alternative calculation methods. The scheme is in addition to the general compensation scheme. One roof per receiver shall be set so that the priority is given to the small enterprises. It shall also require that beneficiaries of aid are not able to pay dividends, bonuses, increase directors’ salaries or terminate employees for a given period of time.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3605	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting as soon as possible with proposals for adjustments to the compensation scheme, including a capping compensation model instead of ‘ unavoidably fixed costs’, in order to ensure that several small, medium-sized and seasonal actors are included in the scheme.’» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3622	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting immediate return to the Storting with a proposal for a temporary emergency solution in order to ensure access to liquidity for high-trafficking competing companies until the compensation scheme is in place.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Storting as soon as possible with adjustments to the compensation scheme using a model that includes competing municipal enterprises such as cinemas and VTA companies.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess on an ongoing basis the need for a grant scheme for large-scale enterprises and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner where necessary for changes. As long as invasive disease protection measures are in place, there shall at the same time be a business compensation scheme.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Workers' Party has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3651	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to facilitate activity and to keep people in employment rather than being on leave, for example in line with proposals for models to include wage costs in the compensation scheme of the LO or the Holden Committee. Aid for compensation of employees shall be designed in such a way as to be paid to undertakings which do not permit or cancel employees.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3669	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that workers and businesses have a predictable financial safety network that lasts out the entire coronary apathy.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3686	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting by the end of 2020 with proposals to include compensation of employees in the business compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess immediate measures to ensure access to liquidity until a new payment solution for the large-trade enterprises’ compensation scheme is in place.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3710	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3857	Alternatively, between Section 5 of the adjustment and Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 5, first and second paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: [[1]] - The enterprise must be registered in the Business Register based on Section 2-1 of the Business Register Act and individual enterprises must be registered in the Entity Register. - the entity must be liable for tax to Norway, cf. the first paragraph of Section 2-2 of the Tax Act, or the members of the undertaking must be liable to Norway for the income of the company, see: the third paragraph of Section 2-2 of the Tax Act. The scheme also includes cases where the entity or its owner is taxed in Norway for activities here under Section 2-3, first paragraph, point (b). - The company has employees. This condition does not apply to individual and partnerships in which the income of the entity is the holder or at least one of the participants' principal income. - during the period for which a grant is sought, the entity has had a large fall in turnover. - It's doing legal activity. - the entity is not in bankruptcy proceedings, has decided to wind up or has been compulsorily dissolved in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter 16 of the Shares Act or the General Shares Act. - the enterprise operates under the scheme. - The entity is not able to carry out redundancies during the period in which the entity receives aid. - The entity may not distribute dividends or make a share buy-back in the period during which the entity receives aid, or in 2021. - Larger enterprises must agree with the trustees of the entity not to reduce the number of employees of the entity during the period during which the entity receives support. - the entity may not pay bonuses to senior executives in the remainder of 2020 or in 2021. - the entity may not increase management salaries or management fees in the remainder of 2020 or in 2021. - the entity cannot have a parent company in third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions. [[2]] The Ministry provides for the fulfilment of this paragraph and lays down detailed conditions for grants. The Ministry may include rules on the calculation of turnover and the size of the turnover case, restrictions on the entity's ability to effect cancellations, dividends or share buy-backs after the end of the grant period, and the types of business covered by the scheme.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3920	It is voted over the remaining paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3930	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3940	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3952	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3960	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e3979	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4012	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4024	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4039	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4051	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. the proposals No 6-8, by Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 9 and 10, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, With regard to the proposals Nos. 6, 9 and 10 refer to the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure that, when a proposal is finalised, it must not be brought back or re-opened in the same Grand Prix. Similar proposals were voted on on 6 October 2020. Proposals Nos. 6, 9 and 10 will therefore not be taken up to new voting now. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 7 and 8 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asking the government to propose to reverse the restrictions in § 11-5 of the Swedish Social Security Act, where consideration other than disease was reduced.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the law, which set the period of benefit for redundancy payments up to four years, and which define criteria for the real possibility of extension for those who need the benefit over four years. The amendment must provide room for discretionary judgement as to the individual’s need for the extension of the benefit period. Revalidation shall be granted, inter alia, when the recipient has not been completed or Nav and the public health service has not fulfilled its obligations.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4091	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with proposals to reverse the cut in redundancy payments for young people under 25 who were introduced in 2020.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce increased requirements for Nav in the form of an obligation for the close follow-up of recipients of redundancy payments to ensure that the relationship between user and administration is established and maintained as provided for at the time of adoption of the Nav reform.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals to extend the possibility of using the derogation provided for in the second and third paragraphs of § 11-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act, so that the period of redundancy can be extended after an individual assessment of the need, in line with the objective of being able to get the most out of work in full or in part.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that decisions on interim benefits, including redundancy payments, are taken in the first line, as long as the Nav reform was adopted.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the impact of the standstill period introduced in the system of redundancy payments.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4131	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4147	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4167	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4175	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4194	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4202	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4221	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5-8, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 9, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 10 and 11, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party On an incurrence, the words «and Telemark» had fallen out of the text of proposal No. 3 by listing the counties. It shall read «Oslo, Viken and Vestfold and Telemark». There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to wind up the manning industry.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the hiring of labour from private enterprises which are not production enterprises.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4262	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to repeal the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act. Time must be allowed for conversion so that enterprises can provide their own skilled persons.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4279	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 7 and 8 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act which ensure the purpose of the Act in terms of safe working conditions by: ensure that the person who effectively exercises a dominant influence over a job has rights and obligations as an employer. clarify the general rule on permanent and direct working conditions in Norwegian working life. prevent the employer from organizing away from the employer’s responsibilities. ensure that wage and working conditions are not impaired by tendering, company fragmentation and other changes in company structure.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the rights of employees in the State Employees Act, in particular in relation to permanent employment and job protection.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to reintroduce access to minority seats in the event of recruitment.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4322	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that employment services are a public responsibility.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4340	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Decisions to the law on amendments to the Working Environment Act I [[adjustment of the initiating legislation]] In Law 17 June 2005 No. 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. It shall be amended as follows: The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-12 is replaced by the following: the hiring of workers from activities for the purpose of renting is permitted to the extent that temporary employment can be agreed under point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9. [[1]] § 17-1 new fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: Trade union which has members of an establishment which has hired workers from temporary employment enterprises, cf. [[5]] § 14-12, may bring an action in its own name concerning the legality of such rentals. In connection with such a case, both parties will have the right to require negotiations in line with the rules of Section 17-3. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals to terminate the general access to temporary employment in Section 14-9, second paragraph, point (f) of the Working Environment Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘As an immediate measure, the Government asks the Government to impose a ban on the hiring of labour from non-production enterprises on construction sites in Oslo, Viken and Vestfold counties, cf. the fifth paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals which include the following elements of the Environmental Protection Act: if an enterprise employs workers who do not have the status of employee, the worker shall be regarded as a worker if (a) the relationship indicates that the purpose has been to circumvent, in whole or in part, the protection enjoyed by an employee under this Act, or (b) the worker, after an overall assessment, needs protection as an employee.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4394	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4402	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4421	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 7, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 7 has been submitted within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure for submission of proposals and is not taken up for voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 4, from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to immediately reduce the requirement for reduced working time in order to receive daily pay under leave from 50 to 20 pst. until further notice, or come back to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for amendment of the law.’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to either adopt a regulation to ensure full pay for at least 20 days from the time of the leave until further notice, or to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with legislative amendments.’; [[up to 6 G]] The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4456	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3, 5, and 6, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to immediately reduce the income limit in order to be entitled to daily allowances from 1.5 G to 0.75 G until further notice, or to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals to amend the law.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to suspend the waiting days in the day-to-day arrangements from the new year onwards or to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the law.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with proposals for better income protection for beneficiaries of daily allowances and redundancy payments that have reached the maximum social benefit period.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with proposals for better income protection for the long-term unemployed on day-to-day payments.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4490	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4498	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4517	During the debate, Mr Pettersen has put forward two proposals. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4522	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4651	Alternatively, between A §§ 1 and 6 in the vote and the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Section 1 is replaced by the following: The law shall facilitate the diversity of editorial media across the country by contributing to a predictable financial framework for media activities and enhanced independence in media support management.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Section 6 is replaced by the following: The production grant to Sami news and news media shall facilitate democratic debate and opinion-making in the Sami community and stimulate the production of a wide range of journalistic content aimed at the Sami population. It shall also promote the development of the Sami languages. Grants may be provided to news media which have the main target group of the Sami population or which regularly and permanently publish the content of the news and timeliness in the Sami language. The financial contribution shall be granted as operating grants. The conditions for receiving grants shall be as objective as possible and contribute to the predictability of the beneficiaries.’;» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposals. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4681	The rest of the A is voried over all the paragraphs. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4696	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4710	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4724	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4736	The size of the store then goes over the matters 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4748	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the age of child-retirement up to 25 if the child is under education.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4777	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a new calculation model for the survivors’ benefits that strengthens the social profile of the scheme, including the economy of survivors’ minimum pensioners.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e4794	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for necessary legislative changes to ensure that the rights of the survivors under the age of 67 are maintained as at present.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for necessary legislative changes to ensure that the current rights of survivors of old-age pensioners are maintained in the rules on new old-age pension from the social security system.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for necessary legislative changes to ensure that the current rights of the deceased are continued in the rules on new disability benefits.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5542	It is votered over in § 18-4 to and including Current § 18-11 becomes new § 18-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5553	The rest of I and II are voted on. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5567	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5577	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5589	During the debate, Mr Christoffersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that the current rules on child allowances are continued in a new age pension from the population’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5699	It is voted on over I and II. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5713	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5727	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5739	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No 3-5, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Recommendation B – promoted by the Labour Party and the Progress Party – has been drawn up during the debate and will therefore not be taken up for voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the withdrawal of the Qualification Programme from the framework allocation to the municipalities and the restoration of it by a State grant scheme, in order to ensure the volume and co-financing of the State.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for quality requirements for actions and language training provided throughout the Nav system, and to monitor the adequacy of measures for personalised people in difficult life situations and of good quality and duration.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5774	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to expand the target audience for Job and to include women receiving social assistance in it’. The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5793	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5798	The result is that 54 voted against the proposal and 32 voted in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking municipalities for a follow-up obligation that ensures close and adequate follow-up of beneficiaries of social assistance with a need for Norwegian training.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to monitor the use of the Qualification Programme in the municipalities.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5911	It's voted on A.II. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5925	It's over A I. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have notified subsidiary aid to I. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5942	It's votting over A III. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5956	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e5970	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6475	It is contested by VI § 4-10, second paragraph, a and § 4-20, third paragraph a. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6491	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6496	There appears to have been several votes wrong. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6508	It shall be counted over I to V, VII and VIII and the rest of VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6518	It's going to add up to IX. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6532	It goes over the x points 5 and 7. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6547	It's right over the X points 1 to 4, 6 and 8. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6561	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6575	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6587	During the debate, Arild Grande has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to encourage local authorities to facilitate better the planning of medical care and to be part of a regulated working time.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In the light of the report of the Emergency Committee, the government is asked to submit an action plan to increase the capacity, competence and quality of medical care.’ [[NOT 2015:17]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the expert group responsible for monitoring, inter alia, the workload of medical practitioners, submits its report in the new year 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6618	President! Can we take that vote again?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6623	The proposals are being re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6666	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6676	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6776	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6786	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6799	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government immediately asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to ensure that the right to BPA and the rules of particularly burdensome care are not subject to the temporary amendments to the Health Protection Act.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6856	Alternatively, between the last sentence of Section 6-2 of the third paragraph of the adjustment and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 6-2 of the Health Protection Act shall be replaced by the following: No derogation may be granted from the first, second and third paragraphs of Section 2-1a of the Patient and User Rights Act, the first paragraph of Section 2-1b and the second paragraph of the first sentence of Section 2-4.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6870	I disagree that they should be set up against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6875	Is it the case that the Progress Party wishes to support the suspension in a subsidiary way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6880	But do they have to be set up against each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6885	At least that's normal. Then we go to voting as it is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6898	So it goes over the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6908	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6918	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6930	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests exemption from quarantine if one has tested negative for covid-19 on two tests.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6959	As several from the hall have stated that they have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6971	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for compulsory testing by the State in the case of important border crossings, in combination with a quarantine legislation drawn up by the health authorities.’ The Green and Røst Environment Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e6988	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a plan for mandatory testing for covid-19 when entering Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7024	It's going to wrestle over you. The Labour Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7038	It shall be added to II and III. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7054	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7059	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7064	We're going to vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7112	The size would then go back to the examination of the current map and the debate on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The next speaker is Nicholas Wilkinson.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7117	The three red-green parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, promote seven proposals together. We propose offer of full courses of training for specialised nurses; a stepping-up plan for the training of specialised nurses and others; better preparedness for future pandemics reviewing the financial instrument not to reduce intensive capacity; to increase the intensive capacity of new hospital buildings; to obtain a national overview of intensive capacity and preparedness; to carry out a uniform organisation of intensive medicine in Norwegian hospitals; The right-wing parties and the supporting party have said that they will vote against all the proposals. There is an important message to the voters for next year. To get more intensive capacity, we need more people in health care. We have a manning crisis after almost eight years of bourgeois government. We need more nurses, doctors and health professionals with full, permanent jobs. The Progress Party will also want private people to solve the crisis in order to gain an intensive place. That's wishful thinking. I would also like us to be able to send a bill that magically could conjure up intensive places. It's not that simple. Intensive sites are expensive, and it's difficult. Private commercial operators do not train intensive nurses. They do not have specialised medicine and do not contribute to research into intensive medicine and nursing. Transferring responsibility to a private actor does not provide a single new intensive care provider and will not help solve the challenges for the future. SV will build our public health service. The money should be used for the treatment of the sick, not for profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7152	Intensive treatment is about treating and monitoring critically ill patients. This involves the use of advanced medical-technical equipment, but the main resource is doctors and nurses with special competence. The coronary apathy has shown that no country has an intensive capacity that is large enough to meet a high volume of severely ill covid-19 patients, if the infection is not controlled. This also applies to Norway. Health regions already map the intensive capacity in March. The survey showed that we have 289 intensive sites established to meet the need in a normal situation. To meet a potential need as a result of the pandemic, we have purchased several respirators and other important equipment, and over 3,000 employees have completed intensive treatment in covid-19 disease. Health regions have further developed concrete plans to meet a situation requiring up to 1,200 intensive patients. Norway has an intensive capacity at the level of the other Nordic countries. Intensive beds are very resource-intensive. Therefore, we cannot have many empty intensities and employees without jobs adapted to their skills in a normal situation. But we have to have good plans that allow us to mobilise quickly if we need increased intensive capacity. The coronary apathy has highlighted the urgent need to build up good access to intensive nurses. In order to strengthen competence and capacity in the longer term, health regions will receive three new assignments in 2021: Several intensive nurses are to be trained and 100 new training positions are to be established in intensive care in addition to those already in existence. Strengthening the recruitment, development and maintenance of intensive nurses in hospitals is required in the short, medium and long term. Regional health enterprises shall address the future and overall need for intensive hospital capacity In the revised National Budget for 2020, the government allocated funds to some 1 100 new education places in health and social education. 250 new places of study were allocated to the bachelor's training of nurses and 200 new places of study for the further training of nurses. We have also created 100 new LIS1 positions, so that even more fully trained doctors can start the specialisation process. We are in the middle of a pandemic that has challenged our society in many ways, including in terms of intensive capacity. The future need for intensive capacity shall be investigated as mentioned. With the measures now being implemented, we will in the long term have higher intensive capacity even in a normal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7182	During the first wave of the covid-19 pandemic, it became clear that the intensive capacity in Norwegian hospitals could easily be detonated. Already on April 2, the magazine Sykepleien wrote that there was about fullness in Ahus. The monitoring and enumeration of regional health enterprises showed that 289 intensive sites were established together in health enterprises, on which the Minister of Health was also involved. Rolf-André Oxholm, an intensive nurse and member of the board of directors of the Norwegian Nursing Association, wrote an article in Dagbladet this week saying: ‘Today, about 240 patients are in Norwegian intensive care units, of which just under 40 have demonstrated covid-19.’ Does the Council of State think that 289 spaces are a good enough capacity for normal, when we have so little left over? How can you say that this is a good enough readiness to face a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7194	No, I'm very unsure if it's a good enough preparedness. I also said that quite early under the pandemic. One of the things I'm sure the evaluation is going to show is that we probably need a greater intensive capacity even in normal times and as part of the preparedness. But it's probably not going to be the only solution to have enough intensive capacity even in a completely abnormal situation. There is also the background to the task now being given to health regions. That job is now done. Although this is probably also going to be a topic in the Women's Country Committee, we have nevertheless thought that it is natural that this assignment should be given as early as January.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7199	There has been some uncertainty about how many intensive places we have in Norway in a crisis situation. On 20 March this year, the Council of State informed that Norwegian hospitals have 1 200–1400 intensive places in a crisis situation. Then it was adjusted down to 950 after the academic community asked questions about that arithmetic. On 5 November the Prime Minister stated in the autumn: ‘In the case of intensive capacity, it is such that, as an exceptional measure, 1 200 intensification sites are planned: [[...]] Planning for something is not the same thing as actually having it. I want to ask the Council of State, because there have been so many numbers here and uncertainty about what one actually means, about how many intensities there are actually in Norway today. And now we're in a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7209	That's the numbers that I referred to in my post, which is the normal capacity. Then there's a scaling of this up to 1,200 intensive patients that you can handle. But as I have so far repeated in line exchanges with the representative on this same topic, the 1,200 places are not spaces that have the same content as the ordinary places. This will be in an extreme situation, where this will be felt as very demanding for the employees, where there is a lower manning factor per patient than the one you have in a normal situation. Those plans are established and can be scaled. These are scalable places, but they should not be confused with the normal quality and manning we have in a normal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7214	I would have liked to have seen the overview of what kind of places we were talking about, because I've heard repeatedly that the Council of State has said that these are not ordinary intensities. I can understand that, too, but there's a limit to when you can talk about it as an intensive place, or a regular, reinforced care. I would have seen these plans. What kind of manning is there a man talking about, how bad patients can lie there, and does the trade union community agree that this can be called an intensive place, with the lower crew that the council sketches? I still thought this was unclear. We've asked about it many times. What kind of manning should there be in places, how sick patients can lie there, and how fast can today's health care scale up to the 1200 places that can be planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7221	I have also answered this, if I do not remember correctly, in a number of written questions from the representative. The questions raised by the representative here are answered, among other things. the manning factor and the nature of the question. These are plans that are out in individual health regions and health businesses — concrete plans, hospitals, health regions, summarising this. It can be scaled up relatively quickly if developments take place in that direction, but fortunately in Norway we have a preparedness for infection prevention measures which means that if we see that the normal situation related to intensive capacity is about to explode, as it was in April, we will put in place strict measures to avoid triggering this capacity. I really hope that we do not need to mobilise this capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7227	New hospitals are being built too small, e.g. Kalnes or Hammerfest, now scheduled. I hope that the Council of State agrees that, for example. Kalnes has been built too little. SV is against ripping Ullevål hospitals, but if the government is going to build Gaustad hospitals, as we call the «infection tower», I would like to ask: Will the government ensure that the new hospital will have more intensive rooms if they are going to build Gaustad?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7232	We don't just have to build Gaustad. We're also going to build Aker Hospital, and that's the total capacity in Oslo that gets better with the new expansion. The experience of Kalnes in capacity has now been used by Health South-East to base other calculations. This means that one now builds the hospitals in Health South-East larger, among other things. based on the experience of Kalnes, where everyone agrees that, especially in some areas, too little land was built.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7237	The President regrets that because of a misunderstanding, I rejected a reply from Tuva Moflag. She can get a chance to take it now if she wants to. It does not want the representative, and the change of lines is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7246	I kept saying that now it might be the same, President, but I go to the post – it was my turn anyway. Yesterday intensive nurse Rolf-André Oxholm wrote in Dagbladet. He used such wise words that I borrow them here today: ‘Norwegian intensive care units were well visited before the coronary apathy. One reason why we do not have a number of vacancies in intensive care is that Norway lacks nurses both with and without specialisation in intensive care. The deficiency is going to increase, corona or not. As a result, intensive nurses are very happy that a lack of competent staff is addressed. We've been notifying you for a long time." It is not just the intensive nurses who have warned. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has pointed out that a pandemic is the most likely preparedness scenario to hit Norway, and the lack of intensification sites, equipment and competence to deal with a pandemic has been highlighted in several reports. Nevertheless, in the last ten years, the number of intensive sites has remained at about the same level. We have fewer intensities per 100,000 inhabitants than countries that are natural to compare with. The regional intensive investigation completed in December 2019 estimates that the need for intensive sites will increase by 25-30 pst. towards 2040. And since December last year, we all know what happened. We have been taken by the most likely response scenario, and the need to strengthen Norwegian intensive capacity has been highly up-to-date. The intensive capacity is the tip of our public health service. Here, the most ill patients are treated by highly skilled personnel with high-tech equipment. Then it fits nicely to quote Oxholm again: ‘The private, commercial actors do not train intensive nurses, do not have doctors in specialisation, and do not contribute to research into intensive medicine and nursing. Transferring responsibility to a private operator does not provide a single new intensive care provider and will not help solve the challenges for the future.’ With this backstop, it is disappointing that the government parties vote against the proposals that have been promoted. It doesn't keep up with a new review right now. Now action is needed to ensure that Norway is better rusted the next time we are hit by the most likely preparedness scenario.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7267	Bruun-Gundersen talked about several places in higher education. It's nice to say that, but it's very wrong medicine. Many nurse students do not have a place of practice, and the training process thus stops. If we get more places in college without the students getting more practice places, we don't get any new nurses in place, it just leads to even bigger queues. The first step in getting more nurses is to get good quality practice places. It proposes health budget SV. The fact that the Progress Party has not understood is that there are areas of practice that are the problem. If we get more practice places, we can educate more. Then we can get more intensive capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7272	I can assure the SV representative Wilkinson that the Progress Party fully recognises the need for practical places. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Progress Party has proposed to enter into an obligatory cooperation agreement between universities and higher education institutions and the municipalities to ensure adequate practical places. It's actually very important to get it in place. But it doesn't in itself solve the challenge we have of not training enough nurses. We have to think both ran parallel. Norwegian universities and higher education institutions need to give priority to the health education on which our work and health care systems depend. Today, the core wall of the Norwegian health care system is based on imports of health professionals from other countries or imports of study places from other countries. 40 pst. In Norway, decision-makers now have their education from another country. It's nice that Norwegian students want to go out to get education, I hope they do, but we can't, as an independent country, base our health care system on an import. That is why the Progress Party has also proposed in its alternative budget that there should be more training in Norway. The issue SV never addresses is that the solution should be to constantly expand the public sector, expand the range of studies at universities and higher education institutions. So there are 300,000 students in Norwegian universities and colleges today. How far does SV think that that capacity should be increased? The Progress Party has a clear prioritisation and a clear expectation that Norwegian universities and colleges will have to carry out their societal tasks and train the health professionals in Norway themselves. In addition, of course, we should follow this up with practice places, which become an important element in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7283	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7300	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7307	This is a proposal which has been promoted and which is dealt with under the urgency paragraph. This means that there has been no examination in a committee, and that has not been the case so far. – I’m not going to use my 5 minutes. I will give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Workers' Party Group. I would say that the Workers' Party has long called on the government to find practical solutions here. We have asked the government, in cooperation with the health authorities, to make it possible to equate fixed spaces with fixed chairs by making professionally based rules for marking, reference, watchkeeping, overview, which is manageable. The government has argued that they have tried, and therefore refused. Now we meet Christmas with reduced capacity in most of the older churches here to land, but I would also like to remind you that for a longer period now this fall we have had limitations on the natural use of the church room in connection with other ceremonies, such as funerals, baptisms, etc. There is, of course, a regrettable situation, but for the Labour Party there are not enough arguments to vote in favour of this proposal. This is justified by the fact that it is not for Stortinget to have the practical or health professional competence to override the decisions of health authorities here. We look at it a little differently when it comes to tightening up measures and introducing new ones, cf. a matter that we had to deal with earlier today, but that the Stortinge in decision is going to drop, and that the changes take place from day one in order to fill the churches in Christmas where the health authorities say no, does not support the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7316	The Progress Party has promoted this proposal to equalise benches and chairs. It is little incredible that it should be necessary, but I am glad that the Storting has seen the importance of having this matter dealt with urgently. Today, the majority will decide whether churches capable of maintaining good and effective measures to protect the disease will be allowed to accept families and lonely for Christmas services, or whether the government will be allowed to use the church benches themselves as a pretext to stop thousands of people from going to the service of the feast or in the funeral in the future. We have to admit that the population is getting tired of the measures against the corona. It is difficult to get five million people to respect heavy cuts into what is usually basic human rights, especially when the state of emergency is soon to start counting this year, not for weeks and months. But it is crucial to stop the spread of infection, and I therefore believe that the government must follow two principles: any action taken must be accurate and have strong medical reasons. The measures which are not effective and unreasonable must cease to be effective. Measures that seem random and unreasonable will not only lead to frustration in the population, they will also help to destroy respect for the measures that are actually important and necessary. So the government should be careful to abuse the power that the people and the Storing have given them to deal with this pandemic. Church buildings have traditional solutions with fixed benches. According to the government, there is a huge difference between a chair and a bench, regardless of the room in which they are located. The same thing is the cultural house, a smaller room with space for 700 people. There they can accept 200, because the seats are chairs and not benches. That doesn't make any sense. I see that the government uses FHI's arguments that you can move on the benches, but in the largest churches in Norway, each family can sit alone on each of its benches and keep several benches empty to maintain large distances between families. There's no consideration at all here. When the government's argument reminds of a bad sketch, it violates the people's respect for the Korona rules as such. When people experience that there is such an obvious pointless case, it contributes to resistance to legitimate covid-19 rules and reduces respect for Norwegian democracy and the laws of Norway in general. Jubilee service is an important family tradition for many. Getting out of a long-term isolation during Christmas will be an important point of light for many, and the Progress Party believes that the government has to facilitate its implementation. I am convinced that the churches are able to carry this out in line with other infectious diseases. According to NRK Rogaland, assemblies have already begun to cancel the Christmas service as a result of the regulatory uncertainty. In other words, a jubilee service with up to 200 participants is considered appropriate, while a religious service with 50 participants is cancelled. Uncertainty results in the cancellation of jubilee services in order to be on the safe side. So the government accepts that people are in the mood at IKEA, the Wine Monopoly and the grocery store, but they refuse to let people listen to God's word at Christmas. How can a government with the Christian People's Party accept that thousands of people should be rejected in the church door because the church has benches and not chairs? I am pleased that we have received the SV and the Center Party to see the illogical nature of this measure from the government. There are still two things I can't understand. Firstly, how can the Workers' Party, which normally criticizes the government for the smallest thing, support Erna Solberg and Bent Höie in a matter where the only logical reason is to save the government's prestige? And how can the Christian People’s Party defend a policy that stops preaching God’s Word at a Christmas feast? This is not about the protection of infection anymore, it is about the government riding principles and not dare to admit to themselves that they have now gone too far. I would like to support the proposal of the Progress Party in this matter and to inform you that we also support the solution proposed by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7344	The Progress Party has put forward a proposal to equalise the infectious diseases rules for fixed benches and chairs in churches and other assembly rooms. This is a debate that has been contacted by people out there by a lot of big business representatives, and it is a rule that many people don't understand and put big question marks on. As stated in the proposal for a representative, the result of today's infectious diseases rules is that a church with a chair solution can accommodate up to 200 people if there are fixed chairs, while a church with a leg break can only accommodate up to 50 people, and it can seem like an incomprehensible rule. All infective measures must be comprehensible and reliable. I think one here is moving at the limit of what people out there really understand. One draws a little bit on the smileband, etc., right, but what's the result, as we approach Christmas, is that many churches wonder if they have to cancel the Christmas services. In the year we've had now, and at the moment we're going into now, I think what's happening is actually worrying. I do not believe that this is the big thing. I actually trust that people who go to church respect it when it says they shouldn't sit in a place, and that they won't congregate if they're told not to. Here it's about creating a practical solution out there. To the point that the Storting should go in and try the government in this case: I could have wished we could have dropped it. I could have wanted this to be arranged. Sometimes you make a mistake; sometimes you adjust the price. I had hoped that the government would adjust the course itself in this matter, but when they have not done so, and there is a suggestion here, the Center Party will support it. To the Workers' Party, which thinks this is not the Grandfather's competence: it's especially when one thinks that one does not have the competence to determine whether to equate fixed benches and chairs, while one has the competence to impose mandatory testing on the government, which is a lot, much more extensive and resource-requiring proposal, and which has great consequences. With that reason, we will support the proposal for the Progress Party. Then we've discussed this problem in the big group. We're also concerned that there are many tombs that have a limit of 50. Christmas comes every year, but graveyards only happen once. There is too many loss when you have to select who will be able to dig. We have not drafted this proposal as an absolute proposal, but we ask the government to consider whether churches and other localities used for burial are acceptable to up to 200 people if the permission is granted by local infectious agents and otherwise it is within the current rules on infectious diseases. I have seen that the government itself has said that this is an area that is the very first they will be able to open up, so I hope there can be a solution to this quite soon. But I want the Storting to agree with this proposal as it is designed, so that one of the Stortings can say that this is actually important. It is also limited to tombs, so it is not a broad proposal that applies to all other cultural halls etc. So I'm going to deal with the loose proposal from the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7363	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7368	Let me first start by stressing that SV has a high threshold to go directly into the government's disease protection measures. But all the time the government's powers under the IPR are so extensive, and the involvement and control of the Storting is so weak, as we've been problemating a number of times, we think it's right that the Storting can make its own assessments when there's good reason for it. And we also see that all the opposition parties have done different things so far, and it's important to stress. In this case, we believe there are good reasons to make a correction in a rule that makes very little sense in practice. The regulations of the government and the definition of fixed seats, and in particular this distinction against benches in churches, or in other houses of God, for that matter, are not very logical and do not work well in reality. It is obvious that the authorities have not had the ongoing dialogue and have listened to those who are in the middle of it, and know how this works in practice. The most important thing is that the rules for the protection of infection related to keeping the distance and staying in designated places are followed, and of course this can also be done on church benches. Therefore, the SV supports the proposal that infectious diseases rules should be equivalent for benches and other types of seating, for fixed chairs and fixed benches, so that the sites are properly marked between the church benches and the protection of infection. This is important. One thing is Christmas services, to which several representatives have been involved, which are important to many, but this is also important for the organisers of Christmas concerts and all those who live by delivering to those events. At the same time, I recommend that the SV's depository group vote for the Center Party's loose proposal on funerals. There we have not yet concluded what is right to do, but we believe it is completely unproblematic to ask the government to evaluate this. I think the efforts we make against the infection pressure are well served by the fact that we can discuss the different rules and make corrections along the way, when it's felt that it makes little sense that the rules turn out strange and hit many people in a way that should be unnecessary. That is why we also wanted to question why the representatives of the Workers' Party do not support this proposal, in particular because very many actors that organise, for example. concerts around the houses of God have pointed to this as a big problem for their season. So then I recommend that the Swedish Storing Group support both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7383	As has been said here, this is treated according to the urgency paragraph. This leads, inter alia, to: that a discussion of this on a broad basis and with input from the professional authorities and from the government in advance of the debate here has not been possible, so I will listen with great interest to what the Council of State has to say on this matter. In general, I would say – and this has affected me earlier today – that in Stortinget we should be very careful to bring maximum professional questions into the main hall. I can't imagine a case that's less suitable for big business than for infectious diseases. It's science and medicine that counts in that context, and I don't think we in Stortingen should take on the responsibility of accepting these professional advice. I am, of course, listening to what Kjerkol says, and especially with great interest to what she says about the Workers' Party being just too big a deal insofar as you tighten up the infectious diseases councils. I think maybe the representative's memory will fail her a little, as far as I can remember, well this does not apply to football in Trøndelag – probably just Rosenborg's home matches, I don't know. The working part has a scroll page that's kind of odd, at this particular point. So to the point: I have a great deal of understanding of the proposal that comes from the Progress Party. That's right, we've been called down as representatives by people who want a relaxation of the rules. I can understand that, because there are very many of us who have a personal relationship with the Christmas service, and who now see that this might not be possible this year, at least not to the extent that it has been possible in the past. That is why we should agree to this proposal. But then the experience with the Christmas services – at least my experience – is that there are very many children running around in the church room. In the hall there is a representative who is a pastor and who can certainly sign on to it. It's a little difficult to keep track of the congregation right on this day, while there are many older people present. It's a cross of thought – if that's the right word in this context. The church has shown a great deal of flexibility under the pandemic and has managed to keep almost normal activity up, perhaps with the exception of some funerals. In the funerals I've been to – it might say more about me than about my understanding of the church – there have hardly been more than 50 participants, it's probably not common, and you've managed to find solutions to that. I'm pretty sure the church will now be able to find practical measures that limit the infection to the minimum. So December 24 goes over 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7398	Joda, I have some experience with exactly what Carl-Erik Grimstad points out. I remember a Christmas Eve service when one of the children ran away with the jesus child. I was completely put out, because I was going to use that crib in connection with the sermon. So that's right: sometimes you lose control. Today there are exactly two weeks left for Christmas. It is two weeks until Christmas is called in. It is two weeks until we a regular Christmas had gathered the family for Christmas dinner, had Christmas parties and not least were on Christmas service. This, like so much other, is going to be different this year. A sadly necessary consequence of this is that Christmas services are also different. I have to admit that I myself know that it is not going to be a normal Christmas service this year. At the same time, I am proud of the churches around our country. They have turned around creatively to ensure the presence through several different rules of infectious diseases. There have been several religious services on the same day, streaming has reached new heights, and open-air services have increased in popularity – all to create arenas where you can gather without contributing to increased infection. It is to be commended by the communities around it. We also see the same good creativity in connection with the Christmas celebration. The government opens up church walks in connection with the Christmas celebration, and the planning of this is well underway in several places. I'm glad. We are probably many who in March a little naive and ignorant thought that life was going to be like before Christmas. Christmas was going to be normal. Only in the last few weeks have we taken it upon ourselves that Christmas celebrations must naturally include infectious diseases rules and restrictions. A belief in Christmas celebration without infectiveness will probably be to add up to a dark and heavy start of 2021. Therefore, I believe that going away from the professionally recommended definitions to pretend that you are saving Christmas will not lead to a good start on 2021, but will also contribute to increased infection pressure and uncertainty at the beginning of a new year. Jubilee services are too many an important part of the traditions associated with the Christmas celebration. For many there are church bells that really call Christmas in, and you get a little break for thought and gratitude after a busy pre-Christmas period. We're bringing together our loved ones, and too many people are going to start Christmas with an all-round song called 'Delige Is Earth'. I hope all this is going to be like Christmas in a year. But this year is the best we can give each other for Christmas, to comply with the rules of infection, to call an extra time until one we would otherwise have had at the table, and to smile at those we meet, at a good meter's distance. As a child, everything's going to be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7421	I have a lot of understanding that many people think it's sad not to be able to participate in services in the usual way this Christmas. On 5 November this year, the government announced a tightening of measures to address the serious development of the disease situation. One of the measures was to limit the number of people who could attend indoor events. It also affects religious services, even though this proposal for a representative deals not only with churches but also with all other meeting rooms, revision scenes and other places. In the past, up to 200 participants were allowed. As of 6 November, the general rule was a maximum of 50 participants, but still there was an opening to have up to 200 when the audience sat in fixed seats. The boundary of fixed seats was not new. It was previously introduced in the harvest to allow one to sit in another fixed seat instead of keeping at least one metre away. It was assumed that benches could not be counted as fixed seats, and that therefore one should still keep at least one metre away. It's because there are no physically defined seats when it's a bench. In order for the concept of fixed seats to also affect the number of participants in the events, I commissioned the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health to reconsider the understanding of the concept, just to be absolutely sure that this was a clear recommendation behind it. They concluded that benches should still not be considered as fixed seats, and stressed that a strict understanding of the infection situation we had was correct. They also pointed out that there was little infection at typical professional, commercial events, such as cinema, theatre, stadiums, etc. Unfortunately, our experience with religious meetings is another also in Norway. The Ministry has used the Directorate's assessment and understanding. Similar types of seats are treated equally, regardless of their location. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has met with the religious and life views. Together with the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality, I have met with representatives of cultural life. In the meetings, the organisations presented their views on the regulation of events. When infection rates fall, these recordings will be important in the evaluation by the health authorities. They were asked if non-discrimination was more important than the number, because it would have been an alternative that one had gone down to 50 anywhere. Then it had become in line with the representative proposal, like everyone else, but then the feedback was that one would rather have the differentiation that was today. I would also like to point out that the Church itself has found a good alternative to religious services through church walks. A church tour involves getting into the church room for a short time, keeping a good distance, and for example. light, listen to music and then go out again. The government has therefore clarified in a regulation of 1 December this year that such church tours should follow the requirements of events, but with a practical exception: the starting point is that there may not be more than 50 visitors present at the same time in the church, but it is possible to admit new ones as someone goes out. It was an adjustment of the law that the Norwegian Church was busy getting in place. So it's not necessary to empty the church for the first 50 people before the next ones get in. This is of great importance to the Church's ability to carry out church tours. The Health Directorate has given the religious communities good advice on how the protection of infectious diseases can be effectively managed by church migrations. It's important that we manage to control the infection. Therefore, we should find safe alternatives where possible. I see that the Norwegian Church has done so, both with church walks where we have provided the acquis, and for example. with a number of open-air religious services, where several may be present because distance maintenance is easier. It's probably sadly so that even if this proposal had been adopted today, many thousands in this country had not been allowed to attend a Christmas service, because the requirement is that when it's going to be a song in a assembly, one must have at least two meters away. Even in our largest churches there would be queues at the door of all those who wanted to enter these days, and who had not let in. That's why maybe finding alternatives where more people get to be in, where everyone gets to be in, is a better option than the one that's on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7450	Through this coronary apathy, the government has taken a number of measures which have not taken the objective for which they were intended. It reminds me of a line change I had with the Health Minister here on Wednesday about quarantine hotels, which were introduced quite quickly and quickly, and which had a number of unintended consequences. Among other things, people who need to be at a quarantine hotel can live in owner-occupied dwellings if they own it, but not if they rent it. I'm glad the Minister of Health has cleaned it up. The government has throughout the day been very clear on this with proportionality. So my question to the Council of State is whether they really believe in this measure with benches and chairs, that there is a proportionality here that is reasonable, that this measure is accurate, that it has a strong medical justification, and that it is absolutely necessary that large churches are not allowed to receive more than 50, regardless of the area on which they are to be allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7457	The answer to that is yes, because with benches it is more difficult to maintain distance purely physically. That's what's the whole reason we've been able to grant exceptions. The general rule is 50. Then we've given exceptions in those rooms where one has fixed seats, where there are physical divisions between each seat, because there's easier to control the distance. In the church, especially by Christmas services, where the whole congregation is singing, one would have to stay two meters apart from each household or between those who do not live together. This is also based on the fact that it's just in this kind of situation that we see it's been infected. People who meet, for example: In religious contexts, it is easy to know each other well, and it is easy to be a little close to each other, both on the way into the room and on the way out again. These are together the assessments on which the assessment is based. But to be absolutely sure that this was a clear recommendation from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute, the government asked them to review this again, it got an extra round, and then the feedback was that this had to be strictly practised.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7464	The Trinity Church in Arendal with a capacity of 1,200 people is not allowed to receive more than 50 people. I hope the Council of State is so good in math that he understands that there are many squares to distribute these families to. So distance conditions, which is one of the most important infectious diseases prevention measures, are not a challenge. However, they are only allowed to visit 50 because there are benches they should sit on, not chairs. Right next to it is a cultural house that is much smaller, and has much less capacity, which is allowed to receive more. Does the Council of State really think that this was an intentional consequence, or will he take a new round and assess whether, like quarantine hotels, this has had so many unintended consequences that he will rectify it afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7471	The history of quarantine hotels is just proof that we do not have any performance related to individual measures, as the representative stated in his statement. I don't know where the representative got it from. On the contrary, we adjust measures all the way to good judgements related to it. In this case, we asked the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute to review this measure again to be absolutely sure that they insisted that this was a proper and necessary measure, and the answer was very clear, they strongly recommended a strict interpretation. The prerequisite for the possible acceptance of 200 audiences by the cultural house in Arendal is, first of all, that they have fixed seats, where there are distinctions between those sitting there and, secondly, the consequence that they cannot use more than a maximum of 50 pst. of its capacity. Thus, a number of people enter a room that is really built for twice as many as it enters. That's a prerequisite for using the 200's.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7480	SV has a high threshold to go directly into infection prevention measures, but I think it might be right to do so when the rules are perceived as very illogical in practice. The number limit of 50 in the case of assembly rooms with benches, as opposed to 200 in the case of fixed chairs, does not really make sense for many. Then, of course, we are aware that there are many difficult assessments related to these recommendations, recommendations and regulations. That is why we are particularly concerned that we have a continuous dialogue with those concerned, and that we also seek advice from those concerned, before making the decisions. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: how was the involvement and dialogue with those affected by this before this decision was taken under the Code of Disease Protection? What did they say?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7487	In contrast to this proposal for a representative, which has to be described as a double bench proposal, given both the way it was promoted and the subject of it, the government's decision in this area was not. There are recommendations on this from our health services. But it's absolutely right that in many of these changes we're making, we don't have time to conduct long hearings in advance. Sometimes we may have short consultations, such as the hearing we now have on the adjustment of the quarantine policy, but sometimes we do not reach it because it is important to take new measures quickly. But then we often have late play meetings to get opinions and assessments. We have also had that in this area, both with the cultural institutions and with the Norwegian Church. I referred from the pulpit some of the feedback that came there. And at the meeting that I also had with pressure in the Norwegian Church, this was to facilitate church migration, and we found a good solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7494	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7501	Of course, we in the Health Committee have worked with Korona. We've talked and put forward a lot of suggestions to reduce the infection. And before this case, the red-green parties proposed greater intensive capacity. But many have forgotten that the coronary apathy has also led to a mental-health crisis. Even before the pandemic, church buildings and other gathering rooms have been the only place vulnerable people could meet other people. The proposal is SV on since the rules on the protection of infection must be complied with. Some answers to the comments from the others: I am a humanist. I've been to many churches many times, and I've never seen people slide back and forth on their benches; they sit down. This is not a big problem. The representative Grimstad from the left said that children can run around. That's absolutely true. But benches or chairs, which are legal, do not change whether children are running or not running. The thing is, people who are very alone, like to meet some people in the church or other gathering rooms to see a face. For many of them, there's one face they're going to meet all December.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7510	I do not consider this proposal to be the relaxation of the rules or the override of health professional recommendations. It deals with the equivalence of fixed benches and fixed chairs — within the requirements of local infectious authorities and within the applicable infectious disease protection rules with regard to distance between the occupants and compliance with those rules both if they sing and if they do not sing in the cricket. For many, and especially the elderly, Christmas service is very important, and it will probably be significantly more important for that group after that year. So how the Christian People's Party can stand behind rejecting church staircase churchgoers going into church and listening to the Christmas Gospel and God's Word, I don't understand. If respect and enforcement of infectious measures are to be trusted, they must be understandable to people. We trust that people will follow the rules for the protection of infection laid down, as long as they are understandable. I travel a lot. At airports you have fixed chairs, you could say, but it's still a bench. There it is directly wallpaper over some chairs. People respect it and keep the distance specified. It is fully possible with simple handles to make instructions also in the church room that make people comply with the distances necessary to be safe and secure also in the church. I trust that those who are going to church will do so that you can equate church benches with fixed chairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7521	Now I could actually use the line change to ask a highly unconventional question to the Council of State, since I come from the position, but that's not what I'm going to do. We've received a lot of enquiries about this, but all the enquiries come from the audience, from people who usually visit the church on Christmas Eve. I have not registered any protests from the Church, which is to administer the Christmas service. Is it also the impression of the Council of State that the Church has not expressed its opinion on this in particular, at least not negatively, about the 50 limit? If so, I think it has to do with the fact that it would be very little beneficial for the Norwegian Church to bear that it has contributed to an increase in infection during Christmas. It might be interesting if the council could confirm the impression I have. To the humanist Wilkinson I would say that there is a significant difference between whether there are 50 or 200 in a hall, and my experience with the church is, as I said, that the Christmas service is among the more sporting services that take place in the church, in running between the benches.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7531	A requirement for people to follow the infectious codes given is that people perceive them as logical, rational and consistent. It's hard to see what is the basis for what we're dealing with today, and I especially want to highlight the loose proposal that Kjersti Toppe has made on behalf of the Center Party. There's a lot of talk about Christmas services and Christmas concerts. There may be a way to go in the next year, but graveyards are now, and they are only once. If you look in the newspapers, one very often sees that at the bottom of the death ads it says that it's for invited friends and family. So here's the one left to make this choice: Who's the 49 others who should be allowed to be present in this tomb? I think that's a very difficult choice. A lot of our churches are big, so you can keep both the one and the two-meter rule if you want to, inside the church room. What the Center Party points to is not an easy proposal. It is that local authorities can make an assessment of the church room, whether it is benches or, as it is in some really large churches, chairs that are used. Because it is not, as the representative Grimstad talks about – at least not in tombs – that people drive and run around. I'm a little uncertain about what church representative Grimstad is going in, a church in the West is at least it's not. One must consider what this is. I also react to the fact that the Council of State Höie, a little general, says that religious gatherings are more exposed to infection than others, as he did in his article. Yes, it is not that a religious collection is necessarily a religious collection. A tomb in half an hour may be something other than a weekend collection in some religious context. One must use reason, and one must consider that the church structure is different. Very many church buildings where one can have 50 people are considerably larger than cultural buildings where one can have 200. So I hope that multiple parts can evaluate this. I'm particularly surprised if the Christian People's Party even here turns the thumb down for a proposal that doesn't say anything should be done, but that one asks the government to evaluate it. I hope that the government party will also support the loose proposal of the Central Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7544	The background to this proposal by the Progress Party is inter alia: the answer I received from the Minister of Health when I actually challenged Minister of Culture Abid Q Raja. For what is very important to emphasize in this matter is that this does not apply only to the church room. I have to say I am a little disappointed that the former cultural politician, the representative from the Left, Grimstad, has not received any enquiries on the matter. His e-mail box may not be full, but at least it is mine, and the enquiries are from cultural life in Norway, which is hard hit by the crisis we are facing, and which in no way has there been any increase in infection at their events, rather on the contrary. In fact, the Minister of Culture goes out and encourages people to wind up events and create lives outside the community. No one in this room has suggested breaking down infectious diseases or facilitating an epidemic of infection after Christmas. I react to the post that Geir Jørgen Bekkeword of the Christian People's Party held on this pulpit. Here it's about adaptations, just like you've done elsewhere in society. It is nice if the bolt in the floor or armrests should be essential for how many people can invite. Some meeting rooms can take 2,000 people, some 200 and some significantly fewer. That's exactly why you should be able to adapt. I think this is a very strange debate after a while. I also think it's important to point out, as the representative from SV, Wilkinson, was about, that this is the place where people might see the only face over the week. It can be a smile, it doesn't necessarily have to be a prayer or a sermon, it can be good music from good musicians filling both the church room and not least the other cultural spaces we have around the country. Loneliness has been a recurring theme during the Corona epidemic — how to prevent it. In fact, we have also reached a budget settlement of 400 million. kr for how to combat solitude. It also requires us to be creative in our approach, because we don't know how long this epidemic is going to last, or when everyone is vaccinated. So I think it's disappointing that some parties today don't show a little more solution-oriented will than what you've heard in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7557	I have to answer the representative Grimstad's questions. I understand that the Norwegian Church of course wanted to be able to carry out Christmas services in the usual way, but they are also very concerned about protecting the infection. Then one knows that one could not carry out Christmas services in Norway in the usual way this Christmas, no matter what the number of restrictions you had, for the distance rule I perceive that no one takes up any objection. On a Christmas service, the audience sings, and that means it has to be two meters away, not one meter away. Thus, one would not have solved the challenges of the Christmas services with this proposal — there would not have been room for many in the Norwegian churches, and many would have been rejected. Therefore, if this proposal had been adopted, the Norwegian Church would have had to have alternative ways of helping and helping people to experience both Christmas service and a church experience. This proposal would not have solved that challenge. In any case, the Norwegian Church had to have found solutions to meet the needs of the population both to be in church and to experience Christmas services this Christmas. Then I am very pleased with the post that came to the attention of the representative of the Progress Party, for now the whole debate has been about Christmas services. It makes clear what I tried to say in my post, that this proposal is not about Christmas services alone, but about all kinds of gatherings. What we now see in other contexts, are some partly picturesque descriptions of how good people are to keep a distance from the church, but I don't know if it matches as well with all the other events for which one here would grant an exception. When we have a number limit for events, it's not just about distance. It is also about the number of people moving to and from events, the number of people meeting, and it is part of the overall measures to reduce the activity of society, which help to reduce infection in society. If we give exceptions, and if we're all concerned with finding loopholes, or adaptations, as someone calls it, the sum of it will be very good arguments for all exceptions and very good arguments for adaptations. But the sum of all the good arguments and all the exceptions would have led to that in Norway we had not been in the situation we are in now, that the infection is going down. Then we had not been able to control the infection, and then all this in some ways had contributed to the fact that too many people met each other in situations where the risk of not keeping distance was too great. There is some background and some of this that makes it difficult, for each action often does not seem logical in itself; it is the sum of the measures that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7568	The representative Carl Erik Grimstad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7573	I must give an answer to Mr Hemdal's representative. It's an advantage to sit in the hall and follow the debate when you jump into the last round with such a line, which is that I have not received any input. I was careful to say in my first post that I have – a lot of recordings – but I have not received anyone from the Norwegian Church, the organizer of the service, and I think that was a bit funny. And that's what I've been given an answer from the Council of State, as well, confirming my impression that the Church will not be responsible for violating the Code of Disease Protection. To Pollestad: I addressed this representative proposal from the Progress Party. And I think it's a little funny from the Center Party's side to come up with a loose proposal that's about digging, because that's actually something that could have been taken up in a normal way in the committee and been treated properly with a good procedure. We didn't get a chance to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7580	To the last speaker, we didn't come up with a "longing" with a suggestion. This is a matter that was on the agenda. We've had it for group treatment, and we've considered that it's also desirable that one assess whether one can be more than 50 in a tomb. There was actually a deep commitment behind this proposal, for which one could have had some respect. So that the Church isn't so busy with this, and that they're busy not breaking the infectious laws: Of course, the Church and everyone else are busy with it, but here's the point that one thinks that one doesn't have to challenge the infectious rules, because when there are large churches, it seems like an illogical rule. And we can figure out what the Church itself has said, instead of discussing it. In our country on 6 November, the headline is: «- An expression of little respect for the church»: ‘The authorities are in favour of 200 in a cinema hall and 50 in a church, it is not a matter of intervention,’ says Church Councillor Kristin Gunleitsrud Raaum. So to the point from the government that one can't do this, because when one is going to sing in the church, one must have a very long distance. It will also be a little like looking for problems. When we had a public opening here in the Storting in the fall – that's how we used to sing, but we couldn't – we had soloists in the gallery. I think that the experience was as good, if not better, when we had the soloists there, and that could also be thought of in church. Here is a search for a problem to defend their own rules, and at least for my part I thought it was illogical. So I am well aware that we are voting in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter and that we are promoting our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7594	Just a brief comment to the representative Grimstad, who commented for the first time that the representative Hemdal had come into the Chamber after the debate had started. I did the same thing, and I want to remind the representative Grimstad that it is among the infectious diseases we have on the Stortinget, that one might be able to join the debates from the office and not necessarily need to be in the hall all the time. So you have to have some respect for the infectious diseases that apply. The second thing that was said was about the proposal of the Central Party, which we delivered about twelve hours before the deadline for loose proposals came out. If one thinks it's a good proposal, I don't think a need to have a committee examination of such a proposal. And if you read the proposal, you see that what we're asking the government to do is to review the church and other localities that are used for tombs, can be approved for up to 200 people if local infectious agents can provide room for it within the current rules. So this is a proposal to ask the government to evaluate it, and if the representative Grimstad and the left think that one needs committee procedure to adopt it, I'll just say that I disagree with it. So I hope that the Government Party too will be able to assess the proposal of the Central Party against voting tomorrow. For, as I said, church services and Christmas services and Christmas concerts are every year. Engraving is something that only happens once.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7606	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7623	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines with replies will be given, after contributions by members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7630	I want to start by thanking you for a good cooperation in the committee. This is a big, important and complex matter, which has created commitment both there and in society outside. The basis for the treatment of the Storting is the statement made by Minister of Oil and Energy Tina Bru here in the Chamber on 10 June on Equinor's activities in the United States and in particular on the state's follow-up. That statement was again triggered by an article series in Today's Business in spring, where it appeared that the situation around Equinor's US business had been significantly more serious than what had previously been publicly known. The Committee has seen it as its mission to clarify how the main owner, i.e. the State of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has dealt with both what has been described as an aggressive growth strategy that went beyond value creation and control, and even more specifically what has been done as the problems of financial management in the United States became known since 2014. In order to illustrate the follow-up of the Ministry, an open consultation was organised involving both former state councils, current and former group leaders and current and former executives of Equinor. Equinor has been in the United States since 1987. However, the large expansion occurred beyond the 2000s. Increases in reserves and resource bases were considered particularly important for further growth. In retrospect, the growth strategy in the United States was based on an oil price expectation that turned out to be rather optimistic, but Equinor was by no means alone here. The loss provisions are primarily related to the fact that these oil price expectations did not meet. However, in 2014, the Financial Supervisory Authority reported several specific errors in the company’s consolidated financial statements and recommended reporting the US activity as a separate segment. In 2017, the National Audit Board asked questions about both the profitability of Equinor’s foreign investment and the follow-up of Equinor’s international activities by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party, which represent the majority of the Committee, believe that the follow-up by the Department could be considerably closer, especially after informing about the failure of financial management in the US segment. Nor can we see that the Financial Supervisory Authority’s recommendation to report specifically on the US segment was followed up by the government in the Owners’ Dialogue with Equinor. The majority are also critical of the lack of any clearer response to the concerns about the profitability of Equinor’s foreign activities expressed by the Riksrevision in 2017. The impression that has been attached is that, despite its principal ownership, the state has been among the more passive owners of Equinor. There is a lot to learn from this matter for the future as well. It has become clear that this ownership management needs a clearer hand, not least if we are to equip Equinor to become an important and forward-looking engine for the new industrialisation of Norway into the renewable age towards a climate-neutral society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7649	The treatment of this matter in Stortinget has been a little strange, for today we are really discussing three issues: We are discussing that press and SV believes the matter is about, namely the wallpaper itself in the United States. We are discussing the entire state's ownership strategy, initiated by the Workers' Party. We're discussing the Council of State's statement on how the OED has followed up Equinor. That's the last thing we have to deal with. I understand that the opposition wants to withdraw the two elements we are not going to deal with, because the investments Equinor has made have shown that there have been major challenges in the past in Equinor related to the internal control of the US business, which both the board and the management of Equinor should have caught up before they did. But that's also because the opposition's role is to create a little hallowed. The challenge with it is, of course, that these investments happened while the red-greens sat in the Oil and Energy Department and directed the launch, but let's not care about those details. I understand that the opposition wants to discuss ownership. It would have been a little fun, of course, to "knuck" something on the opposition. The problem is that we agree on ownership policy. It is not the government's ownership policy that you can get the impression of when you read the Workers' Party's comments on the matter, it is the ownership policy that we all agree on. We agree that the state that owns Equinor should not be involved in business decisions that the company makes. It's the responsibility of the board and the management. Will the Workers' Party now challenge it? That is how it works in this case, but it is not suggested anywhere. This matter shall in fact be annexed only to the minutes of a unanimous committee. Then it may well be that there will be the Labour Party's policy in the future, but it does not help what they did – or, according to the Workers' Party, did not – when they were in government in 2011. However, I would like to add a few words to what is not about the political game we have seen about this matter in the Energy and Environment Committee. I am particularly pleased with the neat and clear statement the Council of State made for the Storting in this matter. She went through the conditions of Equinor's business in the United States and the state's follow-up. Equinor’s investments have led to considerable losses, and it appears that the company has both underestimated the task it has undertaken and overestimated its own abilities and taken too high a risk. In addition, they obviously reacted too late to address the problems. Equinor’s growth strategy was at the expense of value creation and control. This is good to see that the company takes such a clear responsibility for itself, and frankly: it should just be missing. Therefore, it is also good to see that Equinor has now taken on board internally, that it is reported in another way — that it has changed, and that the United States is reported as a separate segment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7676	As with the previous speaker, I will also give tribute to the Council of State for a thorough settlement, which is basically the basis for today's discussion. We could have said a lot about the lessons we have to take from the fairy tale of Departing Statoil in North America, but today's debate is not the time for it – because that's not what's going on. I mean, in the light of the post of the case spokesman, however, it is necessary to make a few comments on the matter. The file manager's installation was about as tidy as the rest of the cases have been handled from there. It was full of logical flaws and conclusions on a weak basis. Because when the Labour Party's representatives talk about the aggressive growth strategy that the company has had, it's the same aggressive growth strategy that the then state councillor Borten Moe in his hearing in Stortinget said that it was not politically controversial by the same government that Barth Eide put in. So what is now the problem was political blessing, and it was confirmed in the hearing of the government council that was responsible at that time. The second is that the state has one of our passive owners. When the committee keeps its ears, I'll advise the representatives to keep them only if you're thinking of right-wing. What came out in this hearing was, on the contrary, that there were two issues that had been particularly important in all the owner dialogues. One was that one focused on cost control in the projects, and the other was that one focused on profitability. Based on what emerges – and not only from the government councils that have been in charge of the ownership dialogue during that period, but also from both directors and managing directors who have previously been in office and who all confirm that there has been a constant focus in the ownership dialogue – the Labour Party draws a conclusion from the air. That has our problem with this matter. Instead of doing what the Storing should have done in this matter, which is to assess the government's dispensation, which is the theme of today, the Labour Party has had its own agenda in it. It doesn't seem the state that owns it or the company, and fortunately things are now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7687	Statoil, or current Equinor, was established by forward-looking Norwegian politicians to manage the Community’s interests. It has served us well. The company was – and is – a unique tool for the Norwegian people and our interests. The issue of Equinor’s activities and exceedances in the United States is serious, but none in this room should be surprised. When, in 2001, the Stortinge treated the partial privatisation of the company, the then government in the proposition referred to it as follows: that Statoil’s internal culture and commercial freedom of action are a hindrance. In other words, the majority in this Chamber wanted to give the company a clearly greater freedom of action. That freedom of action has been granted to the company. If ownership is not a demanding exercise in an entire state-owned company, as we have seen in several examples, it is all the more demanding in a state-owned company, and there seems to be a broad consensus on the principles of professional ownership, where ownership is exercised primarily at the general meeting. At the same time, there appears to be broad agreement that the State should act as the responsible owner. It is also the case that the freedom of the State that initially owns is no different from the private space of action as owners. Nevertheless, the State of companies in which they have ownership is under an obligation to assess on an ongoing basis the achievement of the company's objectives and the development of its profitability. In the same way that companies have a separate responsibility to assume social responsibility, the State that owns a responsibility for this being carried out by the management of the company, together with requirements for sound financial management and achievement. There is no contradiction between the principles of good ownership and clear ownership management related to it. On the contrary, we live at a time when this is a kind of expectation most responsible owners put to their companies. No companies live in a vacuum, and at least in a vacuum from their owners. In particular, it should not apply in companies where the State has a strategic ownership. In this case, where Equinor has suffered a historic loss related to its US exposure, the company should clearly show more transparency and provide more information related to the challenges the company faced to its owners. The State, on its side, should have taken the 2014 thread more clearly, as the Financial Supervisory Authority first made a clear recommendation to report more clearly on the US exposure. The center party believes that we now need to learn from this matter and take the seriousness of the matter into consideration. We look forward to, or, to put it another way, we are attending to the Riksaudition report and its further consideration. This will give us a better indication of how ownership management and ownership dialogue can be managed and implemented in the future in a clearer and better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7706	The matter we are dealing with today is very serious. It has revealed an economic unculture that lacks parallel in Norwegian industrial history. The financial losses of over 200 billion. kr is by now well known. What has not been well known has been the environmental and health aspects of this fatal effort. About half of the losses are estimated to have been the result of heavy efforts to pick up shale oil and shale gas, a terrible dirty way to extract fossil energy. Last night, we were thoroughly presented with the environmental and health challenges associated with Equinor's investment in the United States through the Focus Programme at the NRC. On 28 June 2014, it burned at the gas plant in which Equinor was involved, in Monroe County, Ohio. There were big thoughts about chemical mixtures that went into the air. Since there was a lot of diesel in the area, it burned for several days. Black smoke spilled over the locals, and they could tell yesterday at Focus that they were vomiting, fainting, and bleeding nosebleeds. The fire corps that came to the fire did not know which chemicals it was like steep. To extinguish a fire, you need to know for sure what chemicals are in the fire. Some chemicals will explode if firefighters use water on them. The fire crew first got an overview of what was there several days later. But now they didn't know everything. Some of the chemical mixtures were apparently business secrets. Equinor boasts of transparency about the chemicals they use, but it is well here that with the economic conditions associated with this investment – providing information in a simple and straightforward way that makes people understand what it is about is obviously difficult for the company. In northern Dakota, where Equinor had the largest activity, authorities have received reports of 239 different incidents in Equinor in recent years — some small but also a good deal larger. It is also time to identify the health and environmental consequences of Equinor’s investment in the United States and other countries. That is why SV has today made a proposal on this. We have now been exposed to the economic losses. Now we also need to shed light on the environmental and health losses caused by this scandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7717	Will the representative address his proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7722	The representative takes up the proposal that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7727	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken took up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7732	As Chairman of the Committee, I would actually like to start by thanking the Committee for not too much good cooperation in this matter. The constitutional division of roles has been at stake in this matter. There was a big discussion about whether there should be an open or closed hearing – in a case that is about a statement from a government council that has never been consulted, as far as I know. This has been marked by other agendas, and we hear that in the debate here. It's a story of an Equinor who was mandated to expand, and especially under the red-green government. With today's file rapporteur Espen Barth Eide on board the government, Equinor got the gold card to try on a fossil adventure in the United States. Then there was an oil crack in 2014. It's not strange that there's going to be challenges with that. But today we hear nothing but ‘significant’ and ‘closer’ – that’s what I hear about how ownership could be organised in a different way from what has been done since 2014. I had expected that in today's debate there were some suggestions on how to organise the state's ownership. But there's nothing about that, for example. may have a greater arm length distance. For example, Equinor is the only oil and energy department in its portfolio. All other state ownership is in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That debate is absolutely ripe to be taken. But there is no debate on this today. It is only ‘significant’ and ‘closer’. As the representative Lars Haltbrecken had in mind, none of us are proud of what Equinor has done in the United States, even those parties that in their time were very skeptical of the adventure they put on. Nor is there anything about the recognition that the board had in the hearing that was subsequently held that they have taken responsibility. As the representative of Westgaard-Halle was in the room, they admit that one took on too much of a task and too much of a risk. They have also been unhappy with, for example: the en route oil price. In such big things, you have to be honest – what is the issue we are now discussing and debating? For the future, there is absolute reason to discuss both Equinor's role and ownership, but in a different way than what we are doing here today. On behalf of the Council of State Tina Bru, who has handled this matter well, I would like to say that it is searched that it is she who is in some way placed in the gapstick for this treatment. It's not worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7746	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a good and thorough explanation. That's what we've now spent a lot of time dealing with in the committee. Investing carries risks. It can be profitable, or it can go as it seems to go with Equinor's investment in the United States. They have caused great losses, and it is obvious that there are major challenges to cost control in-house. It seems that the company underestimated the task they took on, overestimated their own abilities, took too high a risk, and reacted too late to deal with the problems. This responsibility lies with the board of directors and the company, and it is they who are responsible for what has happened. It was decided when the committee heard, that this is the debt, and former directors also took that responsibility. It is important and correct that the company has been clear that they have taken and will continue to take responsibility and learn from the failures that have been made. There are clear expectations from us that there will be better control in the future. In addition to the responsibility for the board of directors and the board of directors, it is also the case that the Ministry of Oil and Energy should follow up the expectations of the State to companies where one has a large public ownership, as is evident from the ownership messages that have had a broad connection in this room. The Council of State has explained clearly that profitability and cost control have been part of the ownership of the Oil and Energy Department and Equinor, and it is positive that the Oil and Energy Department of the Owners’ Follow-up to Equinor after 2014 has been particularly busy in the development and write-downs of the company in the United States. Both in the quarter meeting between Equinor and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, following the company’s presentation of results and in the owner’s meeting, this topic has been discussed. That's right, and that's good for us. I want to come up with a reflection, because in this room there has been broad support for the ownership principle and broad support for many of the things that happened during the previous government when Equinor led many of the investments that many now want to debate. The Christian People's Party has been critical of several of Equinor's investments abroad, most of all to the investments they made in oil sand, and I think history has shown that investments in shale oil, shale gas and oil sand have our bad investments. In addition, they have been anti-climate, have led to major environmental interventions and our little future prospects. I hope we see a different line than that for the future, but most of all this shows that we have a debate where the opposition argues and not only manages to meet itself in the door, but in several doors at once. The Council of State has been clear and has given a good explanation, which I believe is well and well attached to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7763	Equinor, where the state owns 67 pst. of the shares, has squandered 21.5 billion. dollars on the biggest industrial failure in Norway's history. Over 200 B.C.E. kr is lost. It corresponds to about 80 landfill garages and underground tunnels when one includes the cost ranges. It's about five times more than the government's total spending on climate action in next year's government budget. Equinor has spent taxpayers’ money full – oil pumps [[muttering in the hall]] Some may feel that it is wrong for the Greens to involve climate policy in this debate, which is isolated about state ownership and failed investment. But in this case, climate and economy are so closely linked, because they've taken a huge climate risk and at the same time a huge financial risk and failed spectacularly with both. Most of Equinor’s investments in the United States require a historically high oil price — even in contravention of Norwegian oil directorate price forecasts to be profitable — and were based on toxic production methods. If so expensive resources are to be profitable, it assumes that these resources are extracted and incinerated, as well as very much of the other fossil energy that can be extracted at a much lower balance price. If Equinor's US investments were to be profitable, fossil energy consumption would have to be so high that climate change would probably become self-enhancing. Statseide companies cannot operate in this way. We are pleased that the Council of State acknowledges this, but I note that the government parties consider it primarily Equinor as a company and not the state as the owner who has something to learn from this expensive matter. It seems to me, however, that the department should also see the warning lights flashing, especially after it was informed of the failure of financial management. The Green Party proposed earlier this year to set up an independent investigation commission to examine Equinor’s foreign investment with environmental and health implications. Now we have to wait and see what the Riksrevision report concludes with, but this is probably the biggest industrial failure in Norway's history. That is why the Greens do not exclude that we are going to re-submit proposals for an independent investigation commission. Equinor's US investment has been a disaster that has unfolded slowly, but safely, under the power of both red-green and blue governments. Now we have to make sure that this never happens again. We cannot bet on the necessary climate change, climate risk and global energy transition. It must be included in the owner dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7780	The starting point for my presentation in June of this year was that Equinor carried out several large investments in so-called non-conventional resources such as shale oil and shale gas in the United States between 2008 and 2011. These investments later resulted in significant economic losses, which has also been widely mentioned in Norwegian media and forms the back cover for the whole of this case. As I have stated clearly in the past, this is a serious and difficult matter. Equinor’s investment in the United States was made on the basis of an international growth strategy. This occurred during a period of high oil and gas prices and strong competition among international oil companies to secure new resources. A large majority in the United Kingdom had also previously expressed support for the company’s international growth ambitions. In 2014, however, the oil price fell abruptly, leading to the company having to write down large book values. The oil price drop and the large economic losses were the start of a comprehensive process in the company, where problems with internal control and other factors were also identified. All of this is well described in the external review from PwC of the US business. In total, the report draws a picture of the company underestimating the tasks they took on. They overestimated their own abilities, took too high a risk and reacted too late to address the problems. Internal control has now improved considerably, but external improvement remains, which I will follow up in the owner dialogue with the company. I note that a Joint Committee stresses that there is broad agreement on the framework for the exercise of ownership by the State, and states that the State should act as a responsible owner who makes clear expectations of the company. But I'm more questioning about some of the other comments from the red-green parties about ownership. What is meant, for example: with a ‘clearer hand’ on ownership control? Does it mean, for example, that the Workers' Party and its supporting parties want the State that owns to be involved in the company's business decisions? These are too important questions for the Workers' Party to be so unclear. It is also not possible to believe that the principles of ownership control are fixed while opening the door for something else. I also do not understand the claim that I have been passive in the follow-up of Equinor. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has opposed an active ownership dialogue with the company, which includes the follow-up to the state's objectives as owners and expectations of the company. I am aware that there can always be improvements in the owner dialogue, and I have also taken some action. On the other hand, there is a rather different debate than opening the door to a whole new type of ownership policy, as I perceive that someone is now doing. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that it is the management and management of the company that is responsible for the day-to-day operations in Equinor. This also applies to losses in the United States. This division of labour between the company and the state that owns and us as politicians is also emphatically determined in the ownership policy that a broad majority in the UK was behind as late as in April this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7800	Government council Bru made a thorough and thorough statement on this in June. She then said, and not least now and at the hearing we had, that she took some action. These included: asking for additional reporting, demanding greater transparency, and she said right now – reasonable enough, and which I strongly support – that she will follow these questions more closely in the owner dialogue. It is interesting that at the same time she believes that nothing could have happened before. Why was it necessary for the Council of State Bru to do these things in 2020, and why was this not done in 2014 and beyond, because it was when these problems arose, and they became increasingly known to the Department, which we have become familiar with not only through the PwC report, but also through the Brus Governmental Council's own presentation. So the question is not what happened in 2020, while Bru has been the Council of State, the question is what the government has done to this since they became familiar with the red numbers in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7805	I have heard several sayings, as the representative Eide now says again here, that the problems of financial management became known in 2014. That's not true. What happened in 2014 was that the Financial Supervisory Authority had looked at an annual report that Equinor – the time when Statoil – had in 2012, and pointed out that there were some things that should be corrected here. Three things were corrected. Then they also pointed to this with the reporting and the way the numbers were reported. We took that up with the company, but there is something quite different than saying that the department was then familiar with poor financial management. It was also before the big losses occurred on the US business, at some point before that. So there's a little context there, even if it's repeated all the time. It's something very different. We have had this on the agenda of the owner's dialogue with the company after the losses became known, continuously since the large losses came.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7810	It has become quite clear both in the PwC report, which is otherwise very good and clarifying, and in the hearing we had, that two things happen in 2014. One is that the Financial Supervisory Authority points out these errors, which were properly corrected, and also that they recommend reporting on the US segment in particular, which only occurred when the Council of State Bru became the Council of State in 2020, i.e. a decision in Equinor. The second thing that happened in 2014 was – as described by the company’s management itself and in the PwC report – that the warning lights started flashing about financial management. It's something other than the losses. The losses are one thing, it has to do with oil price expectations. The financial management and weaknesses there, the lack of transparency, became known in 2014, are stated in the report and in Brus' own statement. So the question is, shouldn't the department follow up more on those questions, that is, those that had to do with the lack of overview in the U.S. segment, as Equinor himself perceived it and also began reporting to the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7817	I agree with the representative that there is a difference between losses and internal control, the challenges with it, but it is still wrong that the ministry became familiar with challenges surrounding internal control in 2014. The company got to know it, it's quite right, but nothing was taken up with the department around it. Moreover, there is no information that the ministry should initially have, because in that case, there is information that all the owners should have. But then I have said, now that we know the extent of this, that it was of such a size that I believe the company could have been open about this, also in the owner dialogue. However, it is wrong that the representative has now claimed several times, that the department became aware of the failure of internal control and the lack of financial management in 2014. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7822	Does the Council of State think that the department should be familiar with these questions, when we now know how serious they were, i.e. that they had expanded into a complete lack of overview, which is very clearly described in the PwC report? Or is it reasonable that you didn't know? Is it so that the board behaved properly, or should the board behave differently, i.e. a board that is partly adjourned by a general meeting where the state is the principal owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7827	I have also been very clear about this in my presentation, and I have also said this several times, that because of the scale of this challenge, I have thought that the company could and should be open with the department about it. Of course, it had to have more owners than us, because we have to have the same information. But it is anyway up to the company and the board to consider what to give of information. It's the division of roles according to the ownership principles that we all seem to be behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7832	During the hearing, several representatives from Equinor, and perhaps especially Eldar Sétre, expressed a very solid defence of the state ownership policy we have had. In the light of today's discussion and debate, it is difficult to read it as something other than a fear that it will be rocked by the fundamental leadership of existing ownership policies, which are owned and created to give security to other investors in government – and also partly state-owned – companies, because there is no active mix of roles, that one can be safe to place their capital in that type of company. In the light of today's discussion and the comments from, among others. The Labour Party to which the Council of State itself referred in its statement, is it disturbing to the Council of State that this can help to make it less safe to invest in companies like Equinor for other owners in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7838	I believe that there is a clear strength in the Norwegian state ownership that there has always been a broad consensus in the Storting on the principles for this. It also provides predictability for private investors investing in the companies where the State is also a partner. There are important principles to hang around. What I referred to in my speech, which concerns me, is that there is now an impression that there is a need for a different kind of policy, that there is a need for a policy where politicians are increasingly going in and out, for example. say that you should invest more in this, or why are you in there, you should withdraw – to operate a completely different type of governance than what are the principles that we all stand together for. I think it's right to have those principles, and that's the way ownership policy should be, just to make it attractive to be an investor in companies that the state also owns.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7843	I agree with the assessments made by the Council of State about this. What surprises me is that it may be difficult to imagine that the companies perceive something else. Ola Borten Moe, who was then Minister of Oil and Energy, said in 2011 about the adventures of the present Statoil with oil sands in Canada, that it was not up to him to consider whether the company should engage in oil sands, but that it was well within the mandate of the partially State-owned company. That's what he told NTB. This is what the Labour Party today refers to as an aggressive growth strategy, which they have forgotten that they themselves were involved in. But aside from that. Is there any reason to believe that the company perceives that it is not itself free to make independent judgements, and that it is the board that answers it to its shareholders in the light of the discussion we have had today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7850	I believe that as long as ownership policy is as it is, everyone should feel confident that this is how the principles work, and that is how we run ownership management. This does not mean that we cannot have a public debate on important issues – and we should. But if you're going to stand in a debate and draw a picture of the need for a different type of steering, a kind of stronger hand on the steering wheel, without clarifying it a little more precisely, I think it might be challenging in the future. But I'm, as I said, busy hanging out about the principles we have. I believe it has served us very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7855	After the disclosures in today's business earlier this year about the large economic losses, a larger external analysis of how things could go so wrong, and how to lose over 200 billion. kr Last night we could look at Focus which huge environmental and health consequences Equinor's investment in the United States has also had. So my question to the Council of State is, will the Council of State ensure a similar independent examination of the environmental and health consequences of Equinor's investment in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7862	It is a little difficult for me to comment on the claims made in Focus's documents – I haven't seen it myself – about the country business in the United States. That is new to me, so I have to refer to the company for further comments on that. But of course, I expect Equinor to be the leader in its business of taking into account health, the environment and safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7867	I'm not asking the State Council to comment on the concrete things that come out in the Focus Documenter. What I'm asking the Council of State is whether she wants to launch an independent study of the environmental and health consequences of Equinor's investment in the United States, similar to what we got when it was revealed that this had great economic losses. Will we have a similar review to look at the environmental and health consequences of this initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7872	I believe that I answered the question, because before I could possibly decide on something like that, I need to know what the claims are about that business, and in what way it might affect health and the environment. I do not have any information about this, so I cannot answer such a question. So at this point, no, I don't want to take such an initiative. But again, I haven't seen the documentary, I don't know these statements. These are questions that need to be addressed to the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7877	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7884	When I take the floor now, it's with the background of the knowledge I have about the relationship between ownership management and Equinor for many years as a member of the control committee, and also as head of it for four years. I would first like to say, with regard to the challenges we're talking about here, especially ownership management, but also US governance, that US events are about many years and different, changing governments. And I'll say something that may surprise Stortinget. When I take the floor, it is also because I will – at least – try to build up the authority of the Council of State in relation to the violent power represented by this part of the Norwegian industry. By that I mean to say that it is necessary that the Storting is very aware that there are issues of mentality and culture that in some cases challenge the state as the owner of Norway's main industrial company. Mentality and culture – what do I mean by such words? Well, we now hear the council say that she should have wished Equinor had told the department about the big losses that came, in the order of 200 billion. Norwegian kroner, at an earlier date, that it would be good if they did. That's how I hear her at least. But it's undeniable that it was through the media we got to know the sum. The size did not hear anything about the big loss at an earlier time. This tells us about the mentality and culture of this communication, which is not the way it should be. But the Workers' Party supports the principle of ownership management, there should be no doubt about it. No one has to doubt it, but that balance must be such that the State that owns is given the information it deserves and that it is entitled to. It is indisputable that it is only after the media go into the matter, this becomes a major political matter, because the information comes through the media, not through the channels they are going to get through. I have another example, which I'm going to use in the last few seconds to tell you about, and which is just an example of a different character, Angola. I think it was six or seven letters I wrote to Equinor about it in the last big period, and then they promised to make amends and improve things in Angola. Now they're saying the exact same thing to the current Council of State, and the matter is still not in order. Hundreds of millions are impossible to account for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7895	A central part of this case is the question of what is meant by proper ownership management, and there may also be the dog buried. More from the position have been involved. Let me start by stating that the Workers' Party and the entire majority who have signed up in this case explicitly emphasise that they support the principles behind professional ownership. For the sake of order, it means transparency, non-discrimination between the owners, the exercise of ownership by general assembly, the election of government and the publicly announced objectives and ambitions of ownership. But this doesn't mean, as someone seems to think, the same thing as the arm's length distance. In fact, there is no contradiction between these principles and clear ownership in terms of accountability, sound financial management, achievement of objectives in relation to public objectives and explicit requirements for the so-called ESG, i.e. for the environment, social conditions and governance. On the contrary, the majority believe that this is a type of expectation that private owners also increasingly express themselves to the companies they own. The impression that – as I said – has been attached is that, despite being the main owner, the state has behaved like the kindest boy, who did not want to disturb those who were really determined, not on dormitory 1, but in the general meeting. The ownership management dialogue should not only be a channel for information and passive consent, but a real two-way dialogue between the owner and owned company, and despite direct questions at the hearing, no example of any change in the company’s behaviour as a result of this dialogue was identified. It is therefore not a question of whether one is in favour of or against the principles of good ownership; it is whether the state should allow itself to have the same level of ambition for its ownership that private owners increasingly express themselves, for example. in relation to the achievement of Paris objectives, e.g.: in relation to social responsibility, e.g.: in relation to environmental liability. That's not the situation right now. There is a misunderstanding about now trying to create an impression from a seemingly well-coordinated opposition that the principles of responsible ownership mean that one should think as much as possible, for that is what those in the management of the companies should do, preferably, and perhaps also those who have been elected to the board, but as the owner one should not express anything more than that. It's a bad start to what we're going to do now, where it's incredibly important that, after all, what's a great success story, that is, the whole history of Statoil and Equinor, should also be able to join us and take a leading role into the green shift and into a renewable future. Then I think we need a much clearer business policy, including a much clearer ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7908	Usually when we deal with matters in the committee, and whatever committee we are in, it is that whoever is elected by the other committee members to be the case rapporteur, of course has a responsibility for the progress of the matter, but also a responsibility to have dialogue, to discuss with the other parties and to try to find solutions and formulations that can be put together. It's a strength in the way we work in the Norwegian metropolitan area, the consensus tradition we have in Norway. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Espen Barth Eide, has chosen a different strategy. The conclusion he knew in advance what to be. He also knew that he would get the matter to deal with many other things than what the Grand Council was going to deal with, namely the thorough and good presentation by the Council of State. Communication between the case rapporteur and the various parties went through the media – so thank you for the cooperation, I would say. Then I would like to draw attention to page 2 of the option: ‘The Committee will stress that there is a broad consensus on the principles of professional ownership management.’ Espen Barth Eide was a little bit involved in his post. We in the government parties were a little uncertain, because we agree on the principles of ownership management. Now we're going to say that, because we can't understand that the Workers' Party and the Center's party should – with the comments they have in addition to that comment. There are completely unclear comments, and when they come to the pulpit to explain them, it doesn't really matter what that means. The representative Barth Eide spoke of that somewhere lay the dog buried. But you first have to bury a dog to find the buried dog. It's completely impossible to understand. If we look at page 3 of the setting: ‘The majority also believe that the follow-up by the department could be closer.’ Is that right? I want the representative Barth Eide and the representative Myhrvold to go up and explain exactly what they would do if they were Minister of Oil and Energy. How would they handle it differently? It's just drawing, because we haven't heard anything in any of the posts coming from the opposition, about how they would handle the situation differently. Therefore, the comments are also so unclear. So, unfortunately, this has also become a political game.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7924	I guess I'm always so lucky to come after Stefan Heggelund. It gets the temperature up. As big-time representatives, we have a responsibility for following the law, for following up the ownership message, and for doing so through the state council. I feel that's what we've done. The Petroleum Act clearly states: ‘The Petroleum Resources shall be managed in a long-term perspective to the benefit of the entire Norwegian community. Including, the resource management shall provide the country with income and contribute to ensuring well-being, employment and a better environment and to strengthening Norwegian industry and industrial development while taking the necessary account of district policy interests and other activities.’;» What has happened is that people’s resources – the profits from Norwegian pedestal – have been used to invest with great losses over an incredibly long period of time, in a completely different part of the world. When you see what happened with regard to the oil crack – as someone talked about – that came in 2014, it would not be natural for us to address this precisely in the ownership management dialogue: What risk do we now have with regard to foreign investment? This is at least an example of what the Workers' Party would expect. As former regional politicians, we addressed this with the supplier industry. Many parts of our supplier industry experienced that Statoil received tenders in the world so that our local supplier industry was not commissioned. But then we went back to the kerosene law and saw that it is actually one of the reasons to take. At the time, we were in government position, and it was lifted, and a strategy was put in place to change and get better dialogue with the supplier industry. This is at least two examples of how it can be done in a different way from what we've experienced to now. Then we're not criticizing the Council of State. So, you have to be happy that we have this dialogue, and that the Storting is taking that responsibility, given the importance of having a ownership management dialogue. Because it is one of the largest companies that has contributed to those degrees of incomes just to ensure well-being but has now suffered a huge loss. You have to be glad we have that dialogue. But we know that it was Progress Party government councils that put in front, so we're wondering a little bit more about what they've done back then. And then you keep drawing up what happened before 2014. At that time, there was a broad consensus about taking those investments internationally to secure revenue for our society. These are at least some examples of how to use the ownership management dialogue in a positive way, precisely to secure resources for the community and for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7950	There are none of the parties in this Chamber today who do not fully agree that there are good reasons why we have this debate, and that we have had such a thorough review of this matter – because it is serious. What has happened in the United States is not good, and there have been good reasons to discuss it, precisely because we have such great interests in our ownership of Equinor. It's very important, there's no doubt about it. What surprises me all the more then, is that despite this very thorough treatment we have had of this matter, the long explanation I also made in the Storting, and the accompanying consultation in the committee, it still seems complicated for the Workers' Party to distinguish between two quite significant things in this debate. I am thinking in particular of the fact that there is a claim from several different representatives that the Department has not been aware of the major losses in the United States since 2014. I agree that it would have been extremely alarming if the Ministry of Oil and Energy had not brought the rest of the market and everyone else with it, that they had to write down large values after the oil price fell in 2014. Of course, we have been fully aware of that. To the representative, Grung, who believes that it would have been quite natural to ask questions about how to follow it up, how to improve profitability: it has been done by the Ministry in every owner dialogue meeting since 2014. Since the losses came, there has been a focus on this. How do you improve profitability in the United States? How are those investments going? What's the way forward? It is absolutely in line with what is also our responsibility as owner. I also want to point out some other things that I think are a little strange in the slightly different debate that is here in the Chamber, about what ownership policy will be in the future. It also sounds like the state has no expectations of the companies we own. Of course we do, it's just going into the government.no and reading the state's expectations to the companies if you're in doubt about it. It lists exactly many of the things that Barth Eide specifically wants, for example. sustainable value creation, its clear objectives and strategies. These are all of our expectations, of course, to the companies. It's important, but there's a difference between that and wanting a situation where politicians are going in and out, for example. instruct a company to invest more in a specific segment, e.g.: renewable. It's a rather different kind of ownership policy. It may be that this is what the Workers' Party wants, but when you mix it up with the follow-up to everything that has happened in the United States, and the losses that came from a strategy to grow – which was otherwise done under the government representative Barth Eide was part of – I would like to ask what questions the representative Barth Eide would have asked if he had been Minister of Oil and Energy at the time, instead of Minister of Defence. Would the representative ask the questions: What is the background to that strategy? Are you growing up a little too fast now? Shouldn't you slow down? Would he have instructed the company to slow down if he was in doubt that this was the right way? I don't think so, because it would be completely contrary to the ownership principles that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7963	This is an important matter. Nevertheless, this debate has really given me more questions than answers. In the hearing we had in the committee, there was nothing other than what we already knew. Equinor was clear that they had said yes when they should have said no. They were clear that it was their responsibility. The Labour Party still asks questions about the country's ownership dialogue: Something should have been done differently. Something should be done with ownership control. Okay. Then I wonder about three things that I hope the representative Barth Eide can answer. Firstly, if today's cross-politically adopted ownership policy, otherwise based on the Storting for decades, is no longer supported by the Workers' Party, what will the Workers' Party change? What exactly does closer, clearer and more active ownership mean? For what Barth Eide's representative now says, something is quite different than what the Storting has agreed on for years. And then I wonder a little bit: Councillor Tina Bru wondered what questions Barth Eide asked. I wonder what questions foreign minister Espen Barth Eide and oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe did not ask when, through ownership, they had dialogue with Statoil about the risk, or when the red-green government of that time had government secrets and discussed foreign and energy policy. Number three: What concrete action would the representative Barth Eide wish that the red-green government had taken the time they stepped up what they then called the fairytale in the United States, which could have changed the outcome, and which would have made us not stand here today and had the discussion we have today, gave the ownership policy that was at the very heart of it? I assume, then, that it is the ownership policy that was at the root then, not the ownership policy of the Workers' Party that is now drawing up for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7976	Once again, I wish I could just stick to the distribution, which is the theme, but in the light of the articles that have been, I can't. The representative Martin Kolberg says that the Labour Party fully supports the principle of ownership. Had only it been true. The representative of Kolberg has traditionally been clear on these questions, and I want to give him credit for it. But the Labour Party takes one step away from it when they write in this case: ‘The majority believe that in the future a clearer hand is needed on this ownership management, not least if we are to succeed in equiping Equinor to become an important and forward-looking engine for the new industrialisation of Norway into the renewable age towards a climate-neutral society.’ It can't be read as anything but that country, which owns 67 pst. of the axe, shall use power directly in a company that has other, private, shareholders, to force decisions that the board itself has not taken. If the Labour Party doesn't think so, they wouldn't have written it. But that's what's the problem in this debate, and that makes us others, when the news creates programs, look a little weird because we don't stick to the theme. This is because the Labour Party is in the process of completely undermining the ownership of the State and, in Equinor, has the ownership policy for which the Labour Party is a party. It's the one they're subverting through this way of dealing with it, because it helps to ask questions to other, private, shareholders about whether they can trust that the state is a clean owner of one thing. In this the representative Martin Kolberg always has our tidy. But here, the Labour Party appears to be something quite different, quite consciously, also underlined in several articles by Barth Eide. That's what makes us have this discussion at the level he is now, because even those of us who are happy in private shareholders and think that private individuals could more often have owned part of it – because the state is not in one and all the best owner or the best way to manage common values – realize that someone has to stand up to the ownership principles that make the state a professional and intellectual owner of this type of company. In such questions, we have always before been able to rely on the Labour Party. It's a shame we can't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e7994	I choose to start where the representative Jon Georg Dale ended. There was a saluting post on the interlocutory here from the representative Martin Kolberg. I really appreciated that. I consider Martin Kolberg to be a negro and, in fact, also a mentor. We shall listen to representatives who have many years behind them in the Great Britain and in political life, as well as in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, who should have dealt with the matter we are discussing, if necessary. He mentioned mentality, culture, and that this has been registered over many years. I think that's absolutely right. So I guess this debate should have been somewhere else, maybe in a boardroom, as much as it should be here. That is what we are going to take with us, and we must also take that into account in the further organisation of state ownership – whether we are going to place everything in one department, or whether we are going to organise ownership in Equinor in another way. But it actually also has some private owners part of the responsibility for it. This is where there are gaps for the Workers' Party in the continuation. I am concerned about the future — how the state should act and contribute to, among other things. the green shift. At least it's not through more shale gas and oil sand and an expansive state. The representative Ruth Grung will keep going back to 2014, but the big risk was taken long before that. That was when there was no special way back, as the oil price fell. So it definitely belongs to the discussion you have, not least about the future. I record that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will continue to place a great deal of responsibility on state elephants in the room, as I call it. The size of the elephants should become involved in taking risks on their own keel, without listening to political signals, for example.? So it really belongs in the future debate on the big green shift. How many of these are we going to create? It is also an important part of this debate. We have more in the toolbox, so I hope we don't navigate, for example. State power into such ownership. This is also important for which actors we are to contribute. We have to take this debate into the mirror in the political direction for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8007	I have followed this matter with interest, via both the media, the presentation and the treatment that has been in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. I can say that I was somewhat surprised when I heard the representative Westgaard-Halle on radio explaining to the Norwegian community why the hearings had to be secret, in a case that was partly about there being too little transparency about Statoil's transactions. But I'll leave it. This isn't the only time we're going to discuss Equinor. We have one more thing in Stortinget. These are questions we've asked the Council of State about Angola. We also know that it will be mentioned in a national audit report that we receive on Tuesday 15 December. So we're going back to this question. That is why I was just going to say a little about what has been part of the debate on ownership management. I'm doing it because I'm the one who sent out the first ownership message. So what the Council of State now adheres to as ownership principles are principles that have remained since then, and that I wrote and presented to the Stortinget, and there has been a great deal of excitement about them. But having a clean ownership management doesn't mean having a passive ownership management. And sometimes when the Council of State refers to "arm's distance", it's how it sounds -- that we're going to be a little bit like a blind investment fund. No, we're not going to be, but we're going to be predictable. When I presented the first ownership message, I did it at Oslo Stock Exchange. I just did that because other shareholders and others who might want to become shareholders were to be familiar with the state's positions. But then the active ownership is that once we have stated what our ambition is to have ownership of that company, we who own actively follow it up, in the democratic way of the Share Act. We have to do so via ownership dialogue to clarify our intentions, but we also have to, if necessary, – I do not say that this is necessarily the case, but generally in ownership – influence the composition of the board of directors and, if necessary, ensure that the representatives of the government attend the general meeting to stand up for the position we have expressed, for our share of the stake. That is what we mean by active ownership – a predictable ownership. Let me say it this way: there are many owners, and some of them are quite passive investors, but for the industrial capitalist in Norway, the state is the best companion one can have in terms of both predictability and stabilisation of capital. It's a ownership policy we've stood for, and it'll stand for it. But we will also in future ask whether the Council of State has followed up what the Council of State has said in the ownership notification, even though it has been provided by a department other than this Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8020	I note that the parties to the Government, in which the Party of Advancement took part, have coordinated themselves well. They've obviously decided that instead of really talking about the government, they could do anything else, they'd rather talk about the case rapporteur. I'm a little honored about it, but I think it might be the wrong use of Storting's time. It begins with the representative, Mr Kjeseth, who thanks for ‘not too much good cooperation’, which is an interesting kind of thanks. It then peaks in the familiar style of Stefan Heggelund, who goes to an attack on me. I remember very well the good old slogan «weak argument, raise voice». It has obviously been central to the PR book that the government has founded here, because it seems like it's the main point, that we're saying something a little rude when we think the main owner should feel something about the goal achievement or the absence of it in a company. Now the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, answered very well, who himself developed these jubilant principles of ownership that I am very firmly behind, and that we have repeatedly been concerned with what means. It doesn't mean passive ownership. That doesn't mean you're going to be a hand off or have an arm's length distance. It means clarity and transparency about goals, long-term goals. What goals will ownership be used to achieve? Of course to make money – but what else? It also means that it is to be exercised at the general meeting through elections to the Governing Board, and that there should be equal treatment of the owners. The point, which we obviously can't quite agree on, is that there can't be anything wrong with the fact that the state is an as active owner as the private owners of the same company are, for example. a fund which KLP makes a clear claim through its ownership of the portfolio it owns. This is the main trend in private ownership by both Norwegian, European and American countries — and fortunately very often towards stricter requirements for both environmental, climate, social, good governance, etc. The state can do that. It's far from there to break with good ownership. Especially interesting – to use a parliamentary expression – is when Kjeseth begins to salute the posts of Martin Kolberg. I also pay tribute to the post to Kolberg, but it is therefore not possible to agree with Martin Kolberg and the government's common position at the same time, because Martin Kolberg's posts were a very clear expression that there has been a cultural barrier to exercising this clear ownership. It was a very good post. So I wonder how Kjeseth can first say that you have to stand behind the interpretation that the government parties have gathered about, and then agree with Martin Kolberg's very good contributions. Finally, I would like to say that there are absolutely things from our time of government that should be discussed. None of us have said anything else at any time. There is reason to ask questions about the growth strategy that started at that time, and we have also stated that. We know very well when it started, and have nothing against admitting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8035	We shall all be pleased that the economic aspects of this matter have come to light, and that as a result, there may be changes in the way Equinor reports in the future. But I am amazed at the lack of will from the Council of State to get to the bottom of the serious environmental and health consequences that this effort may have had. State Council Bru referred in his statement just now to some of the expectations of the state that owns state-owned companies. The Councils referred, inter alia, to: to expect sustainable value creation. Yes, then there is reason to check if what Equinor did in the United States was in line with this. Was it sustainable value creation Equinor drove along in the United States? Are the major environmental and health impacts that this investment may have led to, as Focus showed last night, in line with the expectations of the State as a state owner of sustainable value creation? That's exactly what we in SV will get to the bottom of when we propose today, through an independent study of the environmental and health consequences, to look at how serious they have been, and whether this is in line with the expectations of the state that owns. And then it surprises me that the Council of State does not clearly say that she will make sure that there is such a review, just to see if the expectations she herself referred to are met by Equinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8044	The history of Equinor and Statoil is really a great story. It's a story of a company that has created a lot of jobs, that has created new world-class technologies, and that has generated revenue for the community. I think that we who are sitting on the Storting today should thank all those who have gone before us and have been foresaw, who have dared to make wise and good choices on behalf of the community. This has been done through active management of Norwegian industrial policy. Then it's up to us politicians today to be able to make as forward-looking and wise choices as those that have gone before us. Then I have to say that I am actually both surprised and a little worried when I hear the tone of the four bourgeois parties, because I believe that the tone we have seen here has been a mockery of the whole debate. They start by talking about this being a twenty-hey-debate, about who said what in the media, about when it's been said. They have talked about the fact that there has been a poor cooperation, and that Espen Barth Eide has been too little concerned about joint comments and too much about the Workers' Party. They have hardly been in what the matter is really about. It's about the state's company losing 200 billion. kr and had a culture that does not tolerate the light of the day, and that we have been informed of this as a big crowd by the fact that there have been good media postings. That is what this debate is about. That's what should upset the entire Norwegian population and therefore the Stortinget, how Equinor has been holding on to us. The state should be a professional owner, but being a professional owner doesn't mean abdicating. Dag Terje Andersen said it very well in his post: it is quite possible to be a professional owner while you are an active owner. If the right-hand side doesn't believe it, they can look at private owners, because they're pretty much that. They're both professional and active. Someone can imagine a private owner who had lost 200 billion dollars. kr on a project and then just said no, but that's the way it was. If someone asks questions about it, it's twenty-hey and we're not going to have any of this. I'm sure a private owner would have set in motion a much larger baluba than the opposition is doing in this room today. Why should the state be a worse owner than that? On the contrary, I believe that the state should be a much better owner, because we manage more interests than private owners do. We manage the interests of the Norwegian people. Ketil Kjenseth said that Tina Bru is in the gap. Whoever you think did it was very unclear. On the contrary, Tina Bru has received a lot of praise for her good report, but she is of course on behalf of the government responsible for the follow-up of this further. The Right, Left and Advance Party have been most concerned about what happened before 2013. It's a little strange, all the time the Workers' Party has said that it may well have been wrong before 2013, but since then there have been really five oil and energy ministers, and the most important thing is of course what we do with this in the future. Let me end by saying that this is primarily a debate about the future, what we should own, and how we should own it. If that's the way that the right-hand side has such a lewd attitude toward losing 200 billion. NOK, this is going to be an easy match for the left-hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8063	I say it this way: why this violent aggression? Why this violent aggression? What is my main point of view is that the whole of political Norway is well served that we have good principles in ownership management, but also that we have governance. There is no contradiction between saying and establishing two central things: everyone is very satisfied with and happy in Equinor, Statoil, as it has been, and we support the ownership principles. There is no contradiction between that and saying what our remarks in the vote call for, namely that we have to make sure that the state as the principal owner has a control over what is going on in the companies. What's a fact here is that we're not going to deal with the commercial decisions on the board -- we've never said that, and I'm not saying that. But I note, as several speakers say, and everyone should take it inward, that we have lost 200 billion. kr, and it was many years before you discovered what was being developed. Then it's not going to be possible to say here in Stortinget that that's the principle we're going to deal with, that it's kind of okay. Because it's not good for anyone, regardless of the lot color. I don't need any dispute with the Council of State about this, but I just want to say: I notice that it has at least been difficult to access the development and information through the ordinary channels. It's a fact. It is a major concern for the Storting that this is a fact that Equinor does not communicate to the political environment in a clear and clear manner in such a way that what is being developed before the disaster is a fact. It should all take inwards. If we're going to have a ownership principle that makes this difficult and in a way acceptable, there's good reason to discuss it. Then there is really reason to discuss it – on behalf of the Norwegian people, simply. I'll say it again: I think this has something to do with mentality. It has nothing to do with mentality in relation to the entire oil industry, which is so economically powerful that they sometimes think – now I get to put it very carefully, President – that they can rise above political governance. They should be told not to be the case from this debate. And to the extent that someone cares about what I'm saying, I'm at least saying this: it can't even imagine Equinor for the future that they can get away with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8079	I have heard several representatives here claim that I am almost committed to making statements that the state must keep the arm's length distance, the state should be a passive owner, the state should not interfere. I've never said that. I have never highlighted it as a point in this debate that it is an important principle to fence the state of being a passive owner. On the contrary, I have used my speaking time to point out that the state is not, that the state is just making clear expectations in our dialogue with the company, that you follow it up and have done so in this case as well. I agree with almost everything that Mr Andersen said, but what I have challenged the Workers' Party in this Chamber today is that what they write in the setting, and what they have said in articles here today, is different. Then I record that there is still no answer to what in this specific case – one thing is the general debate on what should be the state's ownership policy for the future – with the principles drawn up by the representatives of the Workers' Party here, what else should be done? Where would you intervene? What would you say? How would you change the course? The representative, Kolberg, was in his post at the end of the day saying that one did not react until the losses were a fact. This happened to many oil companies. Everyone had invested, all lost money when the oil price fell. No one knew that the oil price would fall. So the losses were a fact. And how did the state follow it up afterwards? Yes, by having a close follow-up through the ownership dialogue, which is extensive. Two times a year you have ownership dialogue. You have quarterly meetings, and you have extra meetings if necessary. And the ministry got Arctic Securities in 2015 to produce a report that also looked at the US business to strengthen its follow-up. So the state is in no way passive, nor has it ever been, nor should it be. It is at best to enter open doors the posts that have been held now, where these principles were rammed up. We agree with them, but it is still the Workers' Party that does not respond to what they would actually do. This is pointed out by the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2014. Okay, if you were to do so, you would have to instruct the company at the time to follow the recommendations of the Financial Supervisory Authority, but it had to be done at the General Assembly. That power had then been used in the general meeting. It would be de facto a mistrust of the board. I think maybe it would have been a little bit overly permissive. I don't imagine a working party government would have done that either. It would have been a violation of the way ownership policies are run. That assessment shall be carried out by the Administrative Board. But this was asked, they were challenged on it, they gave an explanation as to why they chose not to do it, and referred to that at the time it was the industry norm. So this has become a debate in retrospect, even now, and now the company is also going to report in a different way because the business has become bigger. That was why the Financial Supervisory Authority pointed out that the business was large. It had nothing to do with the idea that financial management or other internal control problems, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8092	Had the representative Kolberg or Andersen from the Labour Party sat in the committee, we would probably have been some of the most. The reason why I say that is that there is actually only one thing left for the two representatives. It is to explain that the comments written by the Workers' Party are not intended to actually intervene in the way ownership is done. Active ownership policy is quite fine, but one should not intervene on a case-by-case basis, as the Workers' Party has expressed in the form of a comment. Now is the time for the Workers' Party to draw the position they have actively taken in this, to appear neat, to be prepared for Equinor to have safe and good governance, to take a step in the direction of the representatives of Kolberg and Andersen, and away from what Barth Eide wrote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8099	There's something wrong with these debates about ownership. We have this kind of debate when we either discuss the general principle, which is essentially in connection with the ownership message, or when there has been some sort of crisis with some company or other company in which the state is a big owner somewhere in the world. The state is a big owner. I mean, the state is a good owner. The principle of ownership is firm and has broad support in Stortinget. It is also important to stress that the ownership of the State, the free trade there, is not of any stock law or public stock law anything less than the private owner of any company. But we own on behalf of the Norwegian people, and therefore there will be more debate. I get very often questions from the press when some company has done something, whether it's Hydro in Brazil, Telenor in Asia, Equinor in the United States: isn't this a good example that the state should sell itself down? My point of view is no. It's a very important argument that the state should be a big owner, that we get a public debate about the actions that Norwegian companies are doing around the world. So there was a question here -- there's a discussion about what these comments mean. I want to say that I feel that an interpreter is a little bit in the worst sense, because if one could use the interpretation, which I hear from some of the comments of the Labour Party and the Center Party, it should have had far greater consequences than it could actually have. On the other hand, I am also very critical when the Council of State says, "What should a person do differently?" I don't think it's a good starting point for a debate to ask rhetorical questions about what else to do. In a lot of cases -- I want to say all things -- there's a room for action, that's what we could have done differently. I think one has to use these debates to get a little bit more open. We could have done something different, but what are we going to do different? That should be the starting point for the discussion, and that is how to interpret the criticism that has come from the Central Party – now I'm not going to fully answer for the Labour Party, but at least from the Center Party in this case. State ownership is important. The state is a good owner, and it is important that state ownership remains firm. This is not going to be the last time we have this type of debate, but one must always be open that one could have done things differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8114	Although I see that the representative Heggelund has also signed up, I still insist on thanking you for the debate, because in fact I believe it is both important and clarifying. Let me first say, for the sake of order, for those who may not have been in the position, that there are several pages of common text that the whole committee is behind. It includes the whole story of what went wrong, which is once again strongly inspired by both Brus' thorough explanation, by the PwC report that came after, and by the principles of professional ownership and a number of other things that we agree on. We also quote from the government's quite clear criticism of the rule and management of Equinor, who came to the presentation, and say that we are collectively behind it. The whole committee has actually done it. That was quite a lot we agreed on. In all imprudence, the rapporteur wrote the draft of what we agreed on. Then, of course, there are comments from the majority, which are made by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Socialist Left Party, which are different from those of the government parties. What they reflect is a real ideological disagreement – at the top of an actual and positive consensus on professional ownership. As I have repeated many times – in transparency, with the general assembly elected as governors – there is a difference between those who want more active ownership, as it is now developing on the private side, and those who believe that one should almost be a sort of fund manager, who may want to ensure that nothing goes directly wrong or violates the law, but who do not have very strong ambitions for their ownership. It is important to know in the wider ideological debate. There's a healthy disagreement. Both positions are legitimate. In my opinion, one is right and the other is wrong, but that is a political position. We are engaged in politics in this Chamber. It is not inconceivable to disagree on such an important political issue. What we think about what should have happened is that when it started to become clear – we saw in both consultation, presentation and PwC report that it became increasingly clear that there were serious problems with the financial management in the United States – it seems that then, it has been on the agenda, but it is very difficult to grasp what has really been done to try to improve and correct this by the main owner. I believe that it seems that you have not worried enough about this. One has in a way assumed that they know best, those who sit and rule over there in the company. It is a bad approach at a time when so important issues are on the agenda, and how great challenges are facing us. I note that what this debate has shown is that within the framework of professional ownership, there are two interpretations of what it can be used for. I am pleased that there is consensus on a broad left side that one must make it clear that the state too can be an ambitious and active owner with clear objectives for its ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8127	I will start with the representative, Mr Aukrust, as if he had not heard the debate. He knows just as well as everyone else who sits in this room, that Right-wing representative Lene Westgaard-Halle made a good statement about what this matter is actually about. Then the debate has gone both here and there, because, as the Westgaard-Halle representative mentioned, the Labour Party wants to discuss something other than what we are discussing, namely the presentation to Tina Bru. No one believes that the matter – the reason we stand here – is not serious, and that is made clear in the comments we have on the matter and in this debate. Then we heard from Dag Terje Andersen, who is now on the Control and Constitutional Committee. He's probably happy to sit there, because on the Control and Constitution Committee he gets to sit on the other side of the table instead of the one he had to sit on for a long time when he ran Nav. From Dag Terje Andersen there was nothing concrete either – absolutely nothing – about what is different. Then we come to the post that the representative Pollestad had. I really feel that the post that the representative of Pollestad had was that the Central Party regrets that they are in these comments together with the Workers' Party. The representative Myhrvold from the Center Party is sitting, seen from the podium chair, behind a pole, but we can see that he's there. Although he has received specific questions, he has chosen not to draw further, and then we understand that. Geir Pollestad thinks it's strange that we ask what should be done differently, but the reason why we ask that question is that the government is criticized for being passive. But then came up with some concrete things, then, other than things we already agree on! What is passive about what you've done, and what would possibly be active? Give me something specific – not just air and waiting balls. You have to expect more from the Greatness Chair of good grown men who have been doing this all their lives. What does it mean with a clearer hand on this ownership control? What does that actually mean? When the representative Barth Eide talks about ideological disagreement, what does it mean in practice in ownership management that is different from what has been done? That is what has not emerged in this debate, and that is what is so sad, because then it becomes a political and rhetorical game, instead of discussing what it is about, which is the presentation. But the question remains: what do the comments of the Workers' Party and the Center Party mean? It's still not possible to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8140	I'm sorry to withdraw the debate, but I still feel a need to say one more thing that I've said several times today, also because the representative Barth Eide took it up again in an attempt to answer some of my challenges, I appreciate, on questions about what should have been done differently. It was not the case, therefore, that the Ministry of Oil and Energy was briefed on the gradual development of shortcomings in internal control and financial management failures. It became, as I have also described in my statement, known to the department through the headlines that were in the media. We should also not have had information about this that went on internal control, because it is internal information, and it is then up to the board to come to us with that information if they think it is right. In that case, the representative should address that criticism against the company, as I have done myself. I have said that when it was of such a scale as it was, they should show the openness of the ownership dialogue with us. But it's something other than criticizing the ministry for not having taken it seriously. So it wasn't information that we had. Again, it is necessary to distinguish between what is involved in internal control and what is involved in the major losses. We've been aware of them since they happened. That's why we've also been following it actively. In addition, it is also good to remember that this with internal control is the only thing in this case that has happened during my watch. This is the only information we have received under my watch, which I have also followed up and criticised the company for. That's where I think the criticism also belongs, so I still don't fully understand the connection that the representative draws that this shows that the department has been too passive, that you haven't got it, because this was again information that we didn't have. I felt that this was necessary to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8149	Then the next speaker was Ole André Myhrvold, who is not behind a pillar, as was claimed in an earlier post, but in his rightful place in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8154	The representative Stefan Heggelund paints as usual with a broad and dramatic brush and accuses the opposition of unclear remarks. The centre party is well placed in the comments that are, and I believe that the representative Pollestad also explained the views of the centre party, in addition to what I did in my main comment. The representative Heggelund also says that we do not discuss the matter, namely the Council of State statement. But that's what we're doing. First, we have to assume why the Council of State presented it. Well, the Council of State explained because Equinor had lost 200 billion. kr in the United States. The Council of State has explained that well, we agree on that, but then we have to ask ourselves, how did we get there? That's what this case is about. Worse than that – although Stefan Heggelund adheres to the information strategy in the Right by painting widely and throwing accusations against other parties. It's like the Center Party is totally behind the strategy of ownership management, but it's also like I said in my main post, that private owners are demanding the companies where they are joint owners. It's not just about economics, and even less it's just about economics for a state when we have a ownership. We have a ownership of these companies for a strategic reason, and that also means that we have to be close. It is also the case that the Stortinget knows only the Council of State, and the Council of State is then our representative in the General Assembly. That's why I just want to stress that the Center Party is right in the comments that are. I shall continue to sit over there in my place and hear, and I hear well behind both glass-plastics and columns.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8184	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8191	This document, proposed by representatives of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, refers to a proposal for a concept currencyisation of the arm to Bergen from E134. E134 is one of the main road links between Austria and the West and is mainly used for transport between Oslo and Haugesund. The representative proposal is based on the possibility study of the Statens vägvesen on East-West relations between the Austland and the West from 2015. The conclusion of the State Road Administration then was that one recommended reaching out an arm to Bergen from E134, as the analyses showed socio-economic profitability. E134 is an important national link between the west and the east and between regional centres along the route. The corridor is full of traffic towards the big cities. These sections are characterized by bottlenecks and low standard. As one of the high-mountain crossings, E134 challenges with winter regularity, and hence winter-safe roads over the mountain, with new tunnels over Haukeli, should be first priority. We note that the proposers have changed the proposal from asking that the distribution be ‘available to Stortinget at the latest together with the government’s proposal for a new national transport plan in the spring of 2021’ to: ‘The government asks the government to conduct a draft selection investigation of the construction of an arm to Bergen from E134. [[KVU]] Work on the draft selection examination was started by 2020.» It is positive that the proposers see that the original proposal was not realistically implemented. As we have pointed out in our comment and in the response from the Council of State, the work is on a comprehensive KVU process to ensure a high degree of participation from, among other things. hearing aids. Work on the KVU is scheduled to last about one year. The point of view of the Right in this matter is that we believe that the question of a concept currency should be considered primarily in the context of the work on the National Transport Plan, but we will support a KVU of arms to Bergen anyway. We are simply concerned about getting an up-to-date knowledge base, so that the discussion about a possible arm to Bergen and its consequences are done on as real a basis as possible. We are of the opinion that there are many bottlenecks, as mentioned, and many projects that need to be resolved on the current east–west sections before considering an arm for Bergen, and that it would have been beneficial to start a KVU process at a later stage. We will also point out that a KVU of its arm to Bergen must take into account the concept options already adopted, for example. on E39 and E16.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8213	This is a very cross-political representative proposal on the concept selection investigation of an arm to Bergen from E134. In 2015, the State Road Administration recommended that E134 and Rv. 52 were chosen as future major routes between the West and the East. They proposed that the development of E134 should be given the highest priority. The expansions to both Bergen and Haugesund provide positive net benefits. Based on their analyses, which show a high level of socio-economic profitability, the State Road Administration proposed that an arm be set up for Bergen through a KVU. The analyses showed that E134 would provide a forward-looking and the fastest major route from east to west, and was designated as a new main route in December 2015. Despite this, the recommendation of the State Road Administration has not been followed up. A full E134 with arm to Bergen, with winter safe road over Haukeli and debriefing in Telemark, is necessary to prepare Norway's export route to the continent. The original representative proposal had a strong ambition for the KVU to be implemented so that this could be part of the work on the new national transport plan in the spring of 2021. The Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee that there will be good reasons to consider whether a KVU should be implemented and wishes this to be further assessed in the work on NTP. At the same time, he writes that it is not realistic to implement such a comprehensive KVU as the representative proposes, within a given deadline. The majority of the Committee sees that the time aspect is a challenge, but will at the same time give a clear indication that this work will start now and not wait for a possible conclusion in the NTP work. Therefore, the proposal of the majority of the Committee has been amended to allow KVU work to start by the end of 2020. There is also a signal that priority must be given to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8224	The East-West investigation was presented by the State Road Administration back in 2015. Here E134 was chosen as the main line between the East and the West. The aim was to give E134 the highest priority, and on the basis of the high socio-economic profitability, an investigation of arm to Bergen was proposed through a KVU. The East-West investigation showed that E134 would provide a more forward-looking and much faster link than other current trajectory choices. Today, over five years later, this KVU on arm to Bergen has still not been implemented. The municipalities concerned, the business life of the entire route, the NHO, the LO and the Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association are all among those supporting and calling for further progress. Norway is facing a shift, and the requirements for an effective business life will be greater than ever. E134 will increase competitiveness, with reduced travel time and reduced freight costs, while providing significant environmental benefits. It's hard to understand the resistance that has been to this solution. There are none of the other routes to be removed, but if we continue to give priority to four-five mountain crossings, we will never get full-fledged, forward-looking solutions. The East-West investigation showed that there were no two or three good solutions, one opting for one in front of the other. No, there was one option that was the other completely superior, and that was the only option that was socio-economically profitable. In addition, recent investigations have shown us that the need for a fully-fledged E134 is great. This is an important project for Bergen, and in addition to reduced travel time, it gives the absolute highest annual traffic of more than 8 000. It again provides the basis for a standard with full-value, winter-safe mountain crossing. For spring, the Stortinget will adopt a new NTP. We must then be aware of the future transport projects to be selected and prioritised. I am very pleased with today's attitude and that we can get a proper investigation on a common trajectory. I want to thank the Central Party and the Labour Party for being able to promote this proposal together, and I am very pleased that Erna has lost internally, and that the Right now wants to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8239	E134 is an important main link that connects housing and working regions. It is a central transport year also for freight, and the arm of Bergen is an important part of this. The centre party agrees that the implementation of a KVU will take some time. Therefore, this work must be started quickly. We therefore ask that work on the draft selection inquiry be started already this year – we still have a few days left of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8246	The assessment of the main route between Austria and the West has been carried out several times, most recently in connection with the current national transport plan. The conclusion of the NTP is a division of labour between the roads across Haukeli, Hardangervidda, Hemsedal and File Mountain. E134 over Haukelifjell is a priority as one of the main road links between the East and the West. During this planning period, a number of measures have been implemented and others are under both planning and development, with a view to shorter travel time, better safety and road safety for both passenger and business transport on E134. A build-up of an arm against Bergen from E134 will provide a good connection between Oslo and Bergen. The State Road Administration showed in its 2015 report on road links between the Austland and the West that the expansion of E134 both to Bergen and to Haugesund can bring positive net benefits. The last option led to expansion via Rauland in order to become profitable. When careful NTP was treated, a position was not taken to give an arm to Bergen from E134. As the representative Leirtrø said in his statement, I say in the letter I sent to the committee that there might be good reason to consider whether a KVU that looks at E134 with its arm to Bergen should be implemented. I also point out that it is natural to see it in conjunction with the National Transport Plan, which comes to spring. The case spokesperson did very well for the extent and extent of the design work. Normally it takes about one year to implement a KVU and half a year for external quality assurance. In addition to this, the time comes before the actual distribution work, i.e. inter alia: description of the mission and the establishment of a mandate. I will of course start this work right away. I think there are good reasons to just look at a KVU with an arm to Bergen, but I would say it is important that we spend the time that is necessary. Those who want to do this work should think that we should do a good and thorough job when we start the concept evaluation work. Those who want this should be so absolutely for a qualitative and good work, and we will now begin with it immediately after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8270	Thank you for your time. It is more than five – almost six – years since the State Road Administration, the professional authority, proposed that a draft selection be made by an arm from E134 to Bergen. The government said no. If it's not the only time, at least it's very, very rare that when a tradesman asks to investigate further, get a knowledge base, the government says no. I have wondered in all these years why the government did not go further with the proposal of the State Road Administration. Why does the Storting have to impose such a decision five years later? I've been wondering about this all those years. Now I hope I can get a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8277	It may be that the representative Myrli has to think a little bit more about it – I took this role on 24 January. I'm very busy with E134, and there are good leaders here. And as I say, there are good reasons to look at a KVU. What I'm quite concerned about is that when we bring KVUs, it builds up an expectation. There is no doubt that we should not start KVUs without plans to follow up. I probably thought it would be wise to wait for NTP and see this in a context, but I'm ready to follow this up, because as I said in my letter already well over a month ago, there are good reasons for doing so, and we'll get started right away. What has happened before, I should be careful to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8287	Of course, it is at a professional level to argue that such decisions should be taken in the national transport plan, but the recommendation of the State Road Administration came in 2015, so at least it should have come in the national transport plan in 2017. So we're at least four years late, and I'm asking the question again. I understand that I do not receive a response from the Minister for Transport, because he has been in the role for less than a year, but there are representatives from the Progress Party here, who have run the Ministry of Transport for more than six years, and who did not take the initiative to implement a KVU, so I hope that during the debate we can get an answer to that. My next question to the Minister for Transport concerns what he was into, and what he writes in his letter, that there may be good reasons to consider whether it should be implemented. When one in the departmental language says that there may be good reasons to consider, I do not know exactly how to think, but I hope, with what is now in the proposal, that it will start by the end of 2020 – that this work will now start quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8294	I can confirm that. We're now starting the KVU work. Then it shall have a mandate. And then we're going to do the preliminary work on job descriptions. This will be a work that will take about a year. I don't want any haste behind that work. It would be impossible to get a thorough and good KVU until the NTP work. We expect the national transport plan to come in March. In a hurry, there will be an incomplete KVU that will not be of use. If there's something this arm of Bergen is burning, it's a real KVU – looking at the different options and landing the good concept. Then it will naturally come into the further work. I would also say that with what the State Road Service has pointed to here, both the beneficial effect of E134 in general and the arm of Bergen, I expect that work will be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8301	It's interesting to hear the council say he's very concerned with E134. I'm glad, because it's a very important road, and in my state, Telemark, it means an incredible amount to business. It means a lot to business in both the East and the West, and that's why it's so incredibly important. But I have to say that when I read the letter of reply from the Council of State, I probably don't see it as being as positive, or that it's quite the same commitment, because you really want to postpone this to the NTP process to deal with it further. I think it is good that the Council of State confirms that he intends to take this immediately and drive as quickly as possible, but why does the Council of State think it is natural to wait for NTP? Wouldn't it have been okay to get this started as soon as possible? I felt that there were parts of the mountain environment that were very critical in the previous round around NTP, but now we need to get this as soon as possible, because it's a little silly that you might have to wait until the next NTP round before you can make a decision. But it might be that the government doesn't really want to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8306	It takes a year to create a KVU. Now we are in December, and I hope that the Storting wants to have a national transport plan during the spring of 2021. If we're going to start a KVU and it's going to be ready before NTP comes, it's going to be year and day before the National Transport Plan comes, and I don't want it. So I think we just have to realize that this KVU is not going to characterize the NTP that comes in the spring of 2021 anyway, and then I think it would be basically right that we took the lead in the KVU work when we saw the NTP work. But as I say in my answer here, that's a good reason for a KVU on the arm of Bergen, and that's why I'm going to conclude that now I'm going to get started as soon as possible. But even if we go as fast as we can, we won't be done until about a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8311	I think everyone in this room, at least those who work on transportation, is concerned that the NTP should come as quickly as possible, because that means an incredible amount. However, I believe it is appropriate to say that what I believe the government is adding up to now is that you do not want to take a decision on this, do not want to take this into account in the NTP, because you might want to decide whether to make a KVU. It's actually about getting the KVU as fast as possible, so you can make decisions. I often experience in the argumentation and debate, from government party representatives, that they really want to push this project quite far in time. The party of progress is impatient and it is felt that it must be done as quickly as possible. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State at: Does he now agree that this is not something he sees 10–15 years ahead in time, but that this is a project that needs to be speeded up in the queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8318	Now when we start with a KVU, it's because we want to benefit from that work. This is a road that the State Road Service points to has a positive net benefit if we carry out many of these projects. I have heard the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, have been engaged in this work, but also that the spokesman for Saka, Mr. Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen, is engaged in this work. I also hope the Storting experiences a government council that is occupied with E134. The best example to get it confirmed is, of course, NTP. My point is that the KVU work should be seen in a health care unit. That wholeness will all in this will look in a very special way when we get the NTP work. Then it's three months from or even, and then I would have thought that we should look it into a sanity into the NTP. But now we're going to go straight ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8323	I understand that the Progress Party needs to explain itself here after having managed the department for five years – from the State Road Administration came with its recommendation in 2015 and until 2020 – and did nothing about this. What I was really wondering is, was it because the Advancement Party did not want to and now has changed its mind, or was it because they did not get a say in the government? I understand that we do not get an answer to that. Perhaps we will get it later in the debate? But I think Hoksrud rotates it a little bit more, because now he says the government should wait until the National Transport Plan. No, the Stortinget makes decisions today, or tomorrow probably. The decision provides for work to be started by the end of 2020. I perceived the Minister of Transport instead that he was ready for it to be followed, it is being implemented now. If we were to wait for the National Transport Plan, it would probably have been a decision in June, half a year in advance, that's probably about when we expect to deal with the National Transport Plan. I would like to confirm that there is now an actual difference that we are adopting this today and not in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8330	I can confirm that. We are going straight ahead with the preparatory work, with a mandate, and we will be doing KVU work in good time before NTP arrives in March. I should be careful to tell anyone who is best able to interpret Bård Hoksrud, whether it is the representative Sverre Myrli or me, but I feel that the representative Hoksrud was also concerned with the representative Myrli here, that we should start as quickly as possible. But what I said in my reply to the representative Hoksrud is that this KVU will not be ready when we both get and treat this NTP for spring. He will come later, but it will be an important work that I hope will matter. I also hope that we will take good action, which will provide the benefit of E134, but also this ability with an arm from E134 to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8337	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8344	I think I can assure you that the proposal is probably a signal of inter-political impatience. For E134, a major road for both freight and passenger transport, and when the government provided the East-West investigation, this road was precisely chosen as a future main route between the West and the East. In the investigation it was written that the development of E134 would be given the highest priority. Rehabilitation of the road would be of great economic value. At that time, this great jubilee all along the way — yes, not only along the road, but also throughout Rogaland. Holdings, inter alia: the slaughterhouse holding Fatland in Beer had for a long time provided evidence of high wear on vehicles and high fuel consumption on trailers transported from the industry in the West to the rest of the country. There were – and are – large height differences and many curves on the road, while at the same time the road is often winter-bound due to the combination of snowfall and wind. In the same investigation, it is proposed to extend an arm to Bergen, as said earlier from the pulpit, but this has not yet been done, despite the fact that the road during the current NTP period was designated as one of the main road links. Yeah, actually, it's done very little with the road. As one of the proposers, however, I am now very pleased that it is an almost collective committee that recommends that a commissioner initiate the KVU work for the Bergen arm, and that one asks that the work be carried out as quickly as possible. However, I am disappointed that SV, who has otherwise chosen not to stand in the hall today, is not included in this setting. Their reason is that they're against major roads in many places, but when you're asking for a KVU, it's just to check how the road can be repaired, and what's a sensible concept. It is not the case that the working party expects in advance a four-field motorway above the watershed. On the contrary, we believe that the expected ÅDT does not at all make it impossible for a two-/three-field road with planes of height profile and better curves. In fact, it is possible that a proper repair will make the road more environmentally friendly and lower CO 2 emissions and dust problems. Now it is very gratifying that the Right has come to the conclusion that they will support the proposal, and that the Council of State clearly signals that he will go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8364	Let me start by saying that it's a big day also for Rogaland that this KVU gets multiples. Then it's probably that the so-called concept evaluations are perceived a bit too well as a first prize in Norwegian transport policy. It's a couple of times we're happier for a KVU than for a finished road. But at least it's a good start. Then there are many who have named the East-West connection. It reminded me a little about the exercise going on without hope. For there was a big talk from Ketil Solvik-Olsen that now one should make the final choice about what was to be the east-west connection that one should bet on. But this didn't turn out to be that easy, and there were a lot of different ways between east and west that got a premium in that competition. Now there is also news that former Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen will not return to Stortinget, so he will not be able to defend himself either. So I'm not going to follow it on. But I'm a little concerned about the vision of E134 in general, because everyone is very concerned about the road, but it's hard to get anything there. We've been working on the Haukeli tunnels for a long time, but what we're seeing now is that instead of building new tunnels, we're spending a lot of money upgrading them. The idea that one from the Vegvesens side after one has finished using more than half a billion, I think it is, to upgrade them, to build new ones, I trust. It is not better that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport at a seminar in Etne said that it was no problem that a number of tens of millions were upgrading the tunnels. But it was just that there weren't some tens of millions, that was half a billion. So I hope that a thing to create an enthusiasm for this important way. I believe that the representative Langholm Hansen could take harder in describing the consequences it has for both traffic and the environment to put in place such a good and effective East–West connection. I also wonder whether SV is not on this one, because there is a road that is chosen in all plans on a relatively moderate road standard, but it is a road that runs between two end points that have a very heavy population, and it is an important road for those who travel and live along the road. So after all, even if you can do a little bit more of the KVU adventure, this is a big and important day for everyone who's occupied with E134.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8378	I will continue the contributions from the West. There is no doubt that the E134 with an arm that connects it also to Bergen will be the fastest and most environmentally friendly because it will be the shortest, and also the smallest, as well. And it will be the most winter-proof link between the value-creating regions represented by the Bergen and Stavanger regions, and above the mountains to the Skien and Porsgrund regions. Getting that industrial axis over there is incredibly important. That is why it is so crucial that we get our arm figured out for Bergen, because then we get a much better basis in terms of traffic and also the greater impact of investment. But the West is a big state, and Bergen has at least seen that we've had ministers of transport from old Sogn and Fjordane who have made long roads through Sogn and Fjordane, and we've had ministers of transport from Rogaland who have prioritised that area, and then we've been in the middle. But now we know that we have a Minister of Transport from old Hordaland, and we are very happy that he responds as actively as he does. Because it is important that we manage to make the connection that is, as I have just described, the most effective, but also that the rest of the West is seen. We have E16, which is the most rascal road, and it's not to be played in relation to E134, because we also need a connection that takes old Sogn and Fjordane over, and E134 in the south. So as a spokesperson for Bergen and the West, as I feel now, I look forward to getting that very knowledge base and maybe thinking a little bit new, because it's incredibly expensive to invest in the West. But it is absolutely essential that we have good forms of communication that enable us to benefit from the amazing value creation that we represent, and that we get the competitive advantage that good communication will bring. So we really look forward to the KVU work. There's going to be another kind of debate when the next NTP comes, when at least we get some knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8387	I had in my time the joy of working a good deal with the Folgefonn tunnel, to connect Odda and Hardanger closer to the Women's Herad and Sunnhordland, and I must say that in retrospect that tunnel was even more important than what we thought when we worked with it. It has been a great success, and combined with the Jondal tunnel, which came after, this has shown the opportunities that exist in the region and how important it is with good connections. I had the pleasure of being in Odda in the autumn and got to see how important the Folgefonn tunnel has been for growth and development in the area, but we have to go on. These include: from the Odda area and from E134 for poor connection to Bergen. That is why, as many have said in the debate, the State Road Administration in 2015 proposed that one should investigate it further, as has been done for the other East-West connections. It should also be made for arm to Bergen from E134. All the good arguments I don't have to repeat. So I'll say, this is a good day. Of course, we should have made this decision even earlier, but who is counting the lost battles on the winner's day? Because it's the winner's day today. I want to praise the government parties, which also join the decision that is now being taken, and I appreciate the clear speech of the Council of State. I do not interpret him in any other way than what he has said, implying that he is now starting work on the draft selection inquiry immediately. E134 as an east-west link is important for Hardanger, for Sunnhordland, for the mountain area, for the Haugaland, and it is important for large parts of the East, for the industry in Grenland, for the Kongsberg and Notodden regions, for the Dram area, and also for the areas east of the Oslofjorden, as E134 now also goes over – or rather under – the Oslofjorden with connection to the E6. So I'll use the last part of the speaking time to talk about that we have to move on, and there I agree with Pollestad; it doesn't just keep up with plans. And I want to go into the project E134 Vågsli–Seljestad, how important it is that we now move on, and that at least we start as fast as possible with a new Röldal tunnel. I remember what the Stortinget said when examining the national transport plan in 2017, that one could start the development in the first period of funds made available by the toll company. So I really hope now that the Council of State also helps us to get on with the expansion of Haukeli.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8402	I had a perhaps a little unrealistic expectation that this was not a long debate, given that we have such a wide majority behind the decision to be made. But then you can take it wrong. That being said, I would say that for our part it is important to develop E134 and the other roads across the mountain. Regardless of which of these sections of the road we are talking about, there are important road sections for both local and regional traffic, and not least for efficient transport to the east and west. Therefore, I would just like to stress that there are still many bottlenecks on the various East-West connections that are important to have something done, as the project that the representative Myrli recently presented. It is a type of project that is incredibly important, among other things. to take out both height differences and make E134 winter safe. So here are already a lot of projects that are on the stairs, and that it's important to get implemented as quickly as possible. Therefore, when it's called why we haven't started this before, at least I can just show that we've tried to write a little note that links some comments to that. For the last time we had this for treatment, we saw that we had very many unsolved bottlenecks around on our various existing tribal pathways. We believe that at least from our side, and we meant it at the time, that it was important to do something before we started a big job with a KVU. I think it would be natural, as the Council of State was also concerned, that we could take this discussion in relation to the NTP. However, when we get it in connection with a proposal for a representative, it is fine for us that we can go in favour of that KVU with the arm of Bergen, and that we get an up-to-date knowledge of it. So I'm really just looking at it positively, and I'm looking forward to it, so that we can also discuss this big project in connection with an NTP – not the first one, but perhaps the next one – because I think that's the most realistic progress given where we stand today. Something else I think is just creating an unrealistic picture that we can do the big priorities of the Bergen arm in the first NTP, considering all the bottlenecks we also need to get fixed, and that such a KVU process will take some time. But the Council of State gives clear signals that he will follow up the decision, naturally – it should just be missing – and that we will get a quick start, that we will get a knowledge base on the table as quickly as it can be done, but also within sound processes, as a KVU should be. I think we have to take the KVU when it comes, and then we have to make assessments against the priorities that we have to do in a work on the national transport plan. But when you give the impression that this can be clear for the upcoming NTP process: I think it's totally unrealistic. We have to get the KVU done properly before we can take that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8415	For one who has grown up on the Haugaland in Rogaland, and who now lives in Bergen, this is really a joyous day. It's been seven years since the Workers' Party launched the proposal for a KVU on road arm between E134 and Bergen, and finally today, seven and a half years later, that's the majority of the case. E134's trailers say the road is best for most people. It's definitely going to be if we put an arm in place for Bergen, but it's also important to point out that the West is so long that we need more mountain crossings, and the E16 to Voss in the north and E134 in the south are obvious choices for those tribal roads. Then one has to wonder a little over the right in this matter. As late as October 31, Right-wing representatives, including deposit representatives, wrote in Hallingdølen: ‘The Party of Frontiers, the Party of Centres and the Workers’ Party wishes to unravel the road arm from Odda to Bergen on E134, it may seem negligible, but no.’ But now, in the transport committee and in this room, they're in favour of such a KVU. I appreciate that. They would like this to be taken primarily in connection with the NTP, and that we should start this at a later stage – it has just been pushed on and pushed on. In 2013, when the Workers' Party proposed this KVU on the road arm, it became no. In 2015, when the KVU came to the east-west, it was no from the right. In 2017, when the NTP arrived, it was no – although Bergen municipality, Hordaland county municipality, Bergen business council, NHO and LO recorded that this arm had to be investigated. But now the bulk of the population is in place, and it's a happy day. Both Western, Eastern and all others can look forward to an up-to-date knowledge base for an important transport year in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8431	Yes, it's very good to hear the commitment, and it's, as someone said, so that when it's a joy day, you should be happy. However, I believe it is time for a little historical refreshment, for the previous speaker said that seven years ago the Workers' Party promoted proposals on KVU, but eight years ago the Workers' Party voted against the main East-West link being E134, when the Progress Party promoted it. So at least it hasn't been that the wishes for this path have been as good. What this road has often experienced is that it has been road number two, the one that has always been number two, and has always come a little after the others. That's why I'm very happy that you're not there now. I want to give some praise to my fellow countryman Solveig Sundbøsen, because I think that both she and I were quite frustrated when the previous NTP came and E134 was not lifted anymore. I used to be both a Transport Committee member and a State Secretary, and we drove all the roads between the East and West to see which roads you should give priority to. But it is clear, when one party, with which the Central Party and the Labour Party intend to cooperate, eight years ago was not as concerned with the E134 as the main East-West link, and is not even present in the Chamber, one can imagine where the negotiations and discussions on which roads should be given priority. Then I want to give honor to the Council of State, because I think it's good, what the Council of State says. He takes very seriously the signals the Stortinge gives, and he has started the work. It's, as someone said, so you've changed on a proposal for a decision. Yes, in fact, you listen to the feedback that comes. Although I'm impatient and don't like spending a whole year doing this kind of investigation, I respect that this is how some things take some time. You have to do that, even though I would like to see you have had it for the NTP discussion that we are going to have in the New Year, in connection with the NTP treatment. I think it would have been good if you had had had the KVU, got the KVU fully figured out, because then we could have had a discussion even more about how quickly you should be able to put your arm to Bergen, because it means a lot. It is important for business in the West, but not least in the East. Not least at home with me, in Telemark, and down to the border industry, that means a lot. As I said, there's a lot of people who've been up in the pulpit and talking about history. Then it was okay to get out at least a little bit, but in three minutes it's not as much as you can say. I would like to tell you more about the history of some parties and the debates and discussions we have had about E134. But I'm happy. We drove there again in August, and there's definitely a great need to do something with it, tunnels, etc. we have to get in place. I hope there's going to be a lot of tension in the NTP case that comes to Stortinget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8450	I'm glad we're going to get a KVU, when Bård Hoksrud runs around the crossroads to see how the road choices should be and the tracks should be selected. Then I might trust a KVU more when it comes one day, also for this distance. The left is enthusiastic about this KVU. We hear that when a decision on KVU has been made, the winning weight has almost been drawn. We're even more excited about the results. What service provision and what should be the standard, and to what volume and mode of traffic should the route add up? The left is very concerned about operating commercial traffic in particular. That's what we expect with regard to the outcome of a KVU: what can it mean for freight traffic on the west-east axis? This, I think, is what we get, and it's exciting, of course, also for the region of residence and work, but we also need to be aware that there are other modes of transport than just passenger cars. I heard that someone had great expectations of getting a better east-west connection for a passenger car. It might not be the biggest issue on the left. The representative Pollestad was a little in the middle of it – it was almost so that you could understand him – that you should not upgrade the tunnels, that is, after these tunnel directives. I would strongly warn against that. There's a good reason to run and upgrade the tunnels, and that's because we don't tolerate any accidents – no accidents that kill us. There have been tunnel accidents for many places around Europe and the world as a whole, which have led to the loss of life. Fortunately, it has not gone that far in Norway, but it has been close, and we have no one to lose to a tunnel accident. I really hope that the result of this KVU shows what is the need for this route, and then I would like to point out in particular what I said about the business traffic. There are, in particular in the West, many highways that still do not have yellow stripe, are wide enough to serve the volume of traffic or have the quality of freight traffic. Then we have to fix it all first.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8461	I was a little surprised at how deeply the enthusiasm was put in the body of the representative The place when he was up under his post. Yes, the right is very clear that E134 is an important trajectory, but adds that it is with the «others». I want to ask the place about the background because we made an East-West investigation. Why was it done? How have we built roads in Norway in the last ten years? Scrambled and divided. Now we were going to have an investigation that would show whether it was possible to prioritize one section rather than another. In the past, one has never made it clear that priority is given to one trajectory, which takes traffic from the other alternative routes. With the East-West investigation, you'll succeed. One so suddenly that one could choose a trajectory that took the traffic away from the other lines and moved it to the E134. A shifted traffic, cut travel time and gained a huge socio-economic gain. My knowledge of the Right is very much based on a calculator. Societal economy always means a lot to the Right, but with the exception of E134, because the social economy is completely absent. I hope I'm wrong. In the last NTP period, we decided to build a tunnel at Seljestad. There opened the Stortinget so it could be started in the first period. What I want to ask the Council of State questions is whether he can give us a status for that work, and what the further progress will be to realize and get started on that work before we go into the second period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8472	It is nice that the representative Halleland will spend so much time on the Right. Yes, it was an east-west investigation, and I thought it was a very exciting investigation – an exciting investigation because it gave us more information, and an exciting investigation also because we could draw a conclusion. The conclusion reached after the investigation, which was completed and dealt with in this Chamber and presented by a State Council of the Party of Progress, did not end up with a priority of one section. It ended up requiring more of these roads across the mountain east-west. E16 is beginning to be completed. It's a winter safe and good connection east-west. We were going to continue to expand E134, yes, but we were also going to prioritize rv. 7 for travel life purposes, and we should give priority to rv. 52. It's not like there's only one distance selected. If the representative Halleland thinks so, I think he has to read the documents one more time. Our point is that these roads serve different purposes. We need to be involved and give priority to E134. There are important projects on E134 within today’s NTP. We are going to be involved in implementing this KVU, but at the same time we have to take care of the other roads that go east-west in this country, and make sure that we have a sensible development both for local and regional traffic and for the east-west link across the mountain. I think it is a mistake if we now believe that we should only have one East-West link. That's not right. At the same time, I just want to stress that E134 is an important way. We're going to join in and get that KVU done. And then we're going to take the priorities when that time comes, and then I think the calculator can actually be pretty useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8485	Only once again in social debate in Stortinget: The Advance Party and Bård Hoksrud are simply not ashamed when we hear how they argue in the case. There is now a pleasant debate between the Right and the Progressive Party. The truth is, as the representative Helge Orten says, that the result of Solvik-Olsen's work on the East-West investigation was that the government concluded that there should be four east-west connections, four tribal connections, as we called it earlier. That's what the truth is. The progress party was not able to do anything about this when they managed the Ministry of Transport. I understand that the Progress Party is happy to get out of government, ‘out of prison’, as they called it, but that they should be so happy that we are now getting the things that they could not get done in government, I did not know at all. The representative of Hoksrud makes it a point that SV will not vote in favour of the proposal. No, but what does that do? There's a large majority to carry out that concept selection investigation now, so does it have anything to say? I also think it is a pity that SV is going to vote against, but does it have anything to say for the work on the concept selection investigation, as long as all the other parties present here now are going to vote in favour? The left even says that they're enthusiastic about the concept selection proposal. There's no way – everyone's for now! Why has nothing been done about this before the Progress Party came out of prison and the majority in the Great Britain is pushing it through in the Biggest? That's the big question, but I understand we're not getting an answer to it. Then I also have to say that there is no way to decide to make a concept selection inquiry. Road must be built at the same time as an investigator will investigate the link from E134 to Bergen. Today's E134 needs to be expanded. We can't wait for that to happen. Therefore, it is so important that you get started with the project E134 Vågsli–Seljestad, i.e. from Vågsli in Vinje to Seljestad in now Ullensvang municipality, and as the first step – I repeat it from my previous post – will start to build a new Röldal tunnel and then take the other parcels, so that you get a new path across the mountain and down towards Odda. It is correct, as I said in my post, and as the representative Halleland said in his post: The size was very clear during the treatment of the national transport plan in 2017 that there was money in the second period of the national transport plan, but the Stortinget was clear that one could start in the first period of money that the toll company makes available, so that one quickly started the development. I should like to hear the Minister for Transport, who is now on the list of speakers, follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8500	I would like to respond briefly to the challenge posed by the representative of Greece, and indeed by Myrli. There's no doubt that what we're talking about today, and an arm to Bergen, will be of the greatest importance if we get a real expansion of E134. It also says the State Road Service – that e.g. development on Rauland is a commitment to a socio-economical economical development for the Bergen arm as well. I have asked for a new statement from the State Road Administration. She came in the fall. There are several projects on E134. And the project that Greece referred to, Seljestad, is a priority from the State Road Administration. We know about the challenges. Now is part of the road to Kongsberg and Notodden taken, but there is an area that is specifically demanding on this road. The answer to Greece's question will come in NTP, but it's a good sign that the State Road Service has pointed out that there are several good projects that they have prioritised within the framework we've given for NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8507	I take the floor to thank you for the debate and for many good and committed contributions. The committee leader Helge Place said he thought this would be a short debate, but my experience with the Transport Committee is that there are never short debates – so today too. I want to say that it is important that a person now works to improve the bottlenecks and winter road over Haukeli, as I also said in my post. It is also important to have the same commitment to the work of the national transport plan, of which I am more concerned. Now we look forward to the work on the concept evaluation process being started, and we are pleased that the Council of State is so clear that it is now giving priority to the work. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8517	I can't cheer myself up after listening to the representative Sverre Myrli. If you're going to tell others what's not going to happen, you should have a clean path of your own. And it definitely doesn't have the Workers' Party in terms of E134. There's no doubt that there happened very little in the eight years the red-green government crashed, it wasn't a big will. The central party sat with the state council, and there were other roads that were prioritised over the E134. The representative Myrli wondered what the Progress Party means – I don't think there's any doubt that the Progress Party has been very clear that E134 is an important way for us, and we wanted to promise it. But it was worked pretty hard from some environments in Bergen, and if you look at the setting here, I guess I feel that there are some parties that aren't as enthusiastic, even though you're now in and you want this KVU because in many ways you'll find that there's a large majority who want it. The representative Sverre Myrli clearly believes that there is no problem with SV, but we know that when you are going to have budgets and find money, you have to find the money, and then it must be a willingness to do so. The progress party is very clear that the road is a priority – E134 is something we want to give priority to, and that is what we will work hard for when NTP arrives. That's why I think it would have been good to have had the KVU done for the NTP work, so that we would have made sure that this report on the KVU came and showed the social economy. The calculator is very clear here – there is a lot of money to save, and it is incredibly important for business and people in both the East and the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8524	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8529	Hoksrud talks about what parties have proposed and not proposed. Then I would just like to say that the actual conditions are as follows: In 2015, the Swedish Road Administration proposed that an arm-to-arm study to Bergen from E134 should be carried out. The Labour Party and the Central Party in Stortinget proposed that we should do so. We were denied this from the majority of the population, and the Minister for Transport, who was then from the Progress Party, argued against it. That's the actual ratio. I'm glad that there's now a majority for that, but if there was another government, it would have been Transport Ministers that got internal penetration in the government, so we could have taken the decision we're making now, five years ago. That's the actual ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8534	The representative of Terje Halleland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8539	I also want to get into what's really the problem, and that I seem to be getting very clear. What Helge Orten says is that one chooses four lines, is the government's policy. The state Road Service chose one, and then they added two to get rv. 52 in. But E134 has three times as much traffic compared to what rv. 52 has. So there's no doubt that the State Road Service chose a major trajectory. But when the Right chooses to prioritize four sections, that's exactly what the problem is, and really what the Right stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8544	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8549	When the representative Myrli was concerned about what the Workers' Party wanted, it's funny to say that a short time ago, when the Council of State was out and reduced the level of ambition of the new NTP, the representative Sweare Myrli said that the Progress Party had delivered a bankruptcy home, while the Workers' Party had probably about 60 billion. NOK in extra projects for which they had no money. But it's clear it's easy to sit in the opposition and not have money. The Progress Party is clear and clear – we have made sure that we have an ambitious NTP with more money, and due to organisational changes, we are getting more and more money, and we are going to do that. We're forward-looking and we're busy being optimists. That's why we're working to put this KVU in place, and we're working to expand several of the projects on E134, also arm to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8554	The representative Helge Orten has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8559	It has to be short. I just want to clarify the following: It is correct that the investigation suggested that it should be a main East–West trasé, but it was because it was the order that they had been given to investigate. Then I just have to remind you of one thing: it's not like it was the Right who put this out, it was a government that did it the time the Progress Party had the Council of State, the Minister of Transport, who put forward the proposal for four lines east-west. That's what's on the basis of what we're discussing here now, and I think we're going to follow it up in a good way. I think it was a good decision that was made then, but that doesn't mean we're not going to bet on E134, we're going to do that. Now we're going to have this arm figured out for Bergen, and then we're going to take the discussion further from that when we're going to give priority to future NTPs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8564	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8581	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8588	First, I think it is the case that the rapporteur for the matter, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, is gone, and that there are others from the Central Party who are in charge of the matter. That being said, this is a setting that concerns two important themes. One is the fight against gambling addiction, which we have been conducting for many years. It is terrible to hear the stories of people playing from the farm and land, children who experience that the holiday is over before the Danish boat has added berth in Copenhagen, or people who simply ruin their own lives by gambling addiction. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we should have strict and good rules that allow us to channel games into responsible forms, while at the same time ensuring that we limit people's losses. There is broad support for the introduction of such loss limits for horse games in Norway. Norwegian Rikstototo is the sole supplier of such games, and there is broad support for their boundaries. But what we're not completely in agreement with, is what the rules are going to look like. It has been a great wish from the horse sport to be able to look at the possibility of individual adaptations. This is what we're saying that we want the government to follow up. We know that the borders come from 1 January, and we say you have to follow developments closely and also look at the possibility that you can have individually adapted borders in a responsible way. In the exclusive right model, two principles are important. One is, of course, that you are alone in offering this. But this is also how you have a channelling responsibility. You have to make sure that this is so attractive that it actually gets used. Otherwise, there's a little bit of sense in an exclusive model. Then we've seen that the horse sport, which is both an important industry, sport and hobby, can be harmed by the fact that the limit obviously does what it should, that is, limit the waste and losses and thus the income of the game. That is why there are two proposals that can help make things better. One is that we make the removal of the toalisator fee permanent, and the other is that the state takes on something more of the tasks that have been financed over the profits of Norsk Rikstototo. In this way, we ensure that this important part of society continues to be able to maintain its activity, for without horses, without breeding and without all the thousands of people doing this, there will be no Norwegian professional sport at all. At the same time, we maintain a responsible spillage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8603	The proposal we are now discussing was, as we know, presented before the summer, and it has been a very good time for influence. I admit that I could have very little about both the horse sport, the horse industry and all that it contributes to, before I started working on this matter. Let me also say that I think it's a pity that much of the argument about the horse sport has only been about the game part. I agree, of course, that securing the basis for the horse sport is about games, as well as both the totalization fee and the cover of costs, for example. Norwegian Horse Centre and other horse-welfare-related tasks. But many of the positive sides of horsekeeping may have been allocated little space in the process so far. Exposure is usually positive. In this case, much of the commitment has occurred in a variety of channels and from actors that it is both natural and perhaps a little less natural that engages in a matter like this. Of course, we have to accept that. Many have obviously woken up in the Committee's request for an opinion. The core of the matter for all the parties, except the Progress Party, is how far you can go without creating pressure on the Norwegian exclusive right model. Here, the interpretations of the lawyers are being taken on board and, to a lesser extent, political assessments. I think that's a pity, and I hope that in the next big period there will be room to take the discussion itself politically. If we ignore the proposals of the Progress Party, it is, in fact, a quite unanimous committee. The majority support the introduction of loss limits. The majority request a smooth phasing-in of the loss limit system, so that gains earned in 2020 are included in the new plan. The majority ask the government to follow developments in Norsk Rikstototo and to make any adjustments that would ensure accountability and facilitate the channelling of players to the regulated gaming market. The majority also agree that the toalisator fee is cancelled both for the current year and for 2021. The parties to the Government do not go beyond that in a Document 8 proposal, but we may come back to that in later budgetary proposals. Some privileges must also be assigned to the opposition. The overall objective of the regulation of the gambling market in Norway is to ensure safe and responsible forms of gambling. Within this we have gone as far as you think it is possible, to give a handshake just to the peculiarities of the horse sport. I would like, even if she is not here, to thank the rapporteur, who had good ambitions to get something in common, which we have in fact made very clear in the committee. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8630	The representative Tage Pettersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8635	This is a sad day for the Norwegian horse industry and the Norwegian horse environment, for the 16 000 persons employed in the horse industry, and for the many who ride horses in leisure and hobby. Through a political decision, we're creating a potential crisis for an industry, we're constructing a problem that didn't have to be there. Let me start by saying that someone has tried to turn this debate into a debate on the monopoly of games. This debate is not about gambling monopolies. Yes, the Progress Party has a different view than most other parties in terms of gambling monopoly, but it belongs in other matters. This case is about the economic bone of the horse industry to stand on. We all agree that gambling addiction should be combated in a targeted way, but striving and the games involving Norwegian Rikstototo are so-called green games, so-called non-dependence games. Norwegian Rikstototo is probably the world's most responsible gaming company, with a fantastic mentoring system, and they do a lot of good to combat gambling addiction, which many others should also learn from. I feel that many of those who take part in this debate, including the government with its proposal, do not take into account how busy and horse racing works. It works a completely different way than the Norwegian Typing game. A small proportion of major players of maybe 200 people, who are busy as professional money placements instead of e.g. placing the money in shares accounts for a very large proportion of the turnover of Rikstototo. It makes people play too much money, not because they have a dependency problem, but because they're doing it as professional money placement. This small group accounts for a large proportion of Norsk Rikstototo’s turnover and therefore accounts for a large proportion of the profits of 500 million. Every year transferred from Rikstototo to Norwegian horse sports and down the value chain, down to the width and all those making up the fantastic horse environment in Norway. Now, when you want to impose loss limits, you destroy too much of this funding. The horse environment fears that the cash flow will go down, and that the transfers to the horse environment will also go down. It is a great loss for a great industry, and this is the result of a political decision, which can be avoided by voting against the introduction of loss limits here today. About 70 pst. of the games at Rikstototo are not on games in Norway, but on games in Sweden and elsewhere. I fear that the only thing you can achieve with this proposal is that big players who want to play abroad choose Swedish ATG or other international gaming companies – that the games don't end, but they stop playing at Rikstototo. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8650	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8655	This case is about horse, not about game, and it's about a lot more than busy. It's about nutrition, recreation, sports, health, inclusion and integration. It's about future horses. This is about the future for the horse environment in the countryside and in the city. There's a difference between playing on a horse and tipping which 7 out of 34 balls fell down, out of a box. The fight against gambling addiction is my impression that horse nutrition and Rikstototo take the most seriously. It's also important for me to say that the Center Party is calling about the one-right model. We want to have limits for games, but we want to have effective limits for games. There's no doubt that the biggest competitor here is the money stream going to games abroad. In the reports from the Council of State in the review of the one-right model, it is very clear that this is something you do not want to do. One uses a very conscious word like this -- it can be one thing or another. There is no legal skew security; it is ‘can’. It's even a formulation I think is pretty nice, in a negative sense:'some people might claim'. Yes, of course, it can always go wrong if you put the threshold there. The solution of the center part is that we wait to introduce a loss limit until we have systems that guarantee, for example. the professional players that we have and that are important for horse nutrition. We have also submitted proposals for an economic package that goes on, among other things. the financing of Norsk Hestesenter and the permanent removal of the toalisator charges. It is also interesting to note that there is no proposal, and it is not a vote today that says it should be introduced, a loss limit from 1 January 2021, so the government will still have the possibility to think about it through Christmas. What you're about to do now is, it's the foreign gaming companies that have reason to cheer for, while the horse environment in all of Norway has reason to be tired and worried about the future. By doing so, I will deal with the proposal put forward by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8670	The representative of Geir Pollestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8675	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a very good work on bringing together the Committee on quite so much. The most important thing for the Swedish gambling policy is to protect against gambling addiction. That is why we stand firmly in the defence of the model of exclusive rights and the demand for social responsibility and a model that also ensures that all the profits from games go to important and good ends, with great positive effects for society as a whole – sport, culture, volunteering and humanitarian work. That is why we also support the introduction of loss limits for games on horses, such as for other gambling. However, the introduction of loss limits also has some undesirable consequences for horse sport. We recognize that. The horse sport does not get many of the good that the rest of the sport gets, but it is especially important to take on the serious channelling effect, i.e. the risk that more people can go to foreign and non-regulated games. Such consistency will affect the whole purpose of the implementation of loss limits. This is why we have been concerned about the opportunities available within the framework of the model of exclusive rights and within the framework of socially responsible games to find remedial and adapted measures. It is not appropriate to go away from the introduction of loss limits, as proposed by the Progress Party, the only party opposed to the exclusive right model. We have also received important advice on the table during this process that a postponement of deployment will be irresponsible. We listen when it is said with great weight and credibility that a postponement could damage the defence of the exclusive model of legal processes that are in progress. The fact that the representative Pollestad chooses not to listen to the strong advice we've been given gives the Central Party its coat. SV chooses to listen when the advice is passed. That is why we have not chosen to support the proposal to postpone implementation. Rather, we have chosen to support a number of other remedies, which will be important for horse sport, such as: to make the exemption from the toaliser charge permanent; that the country now contributes more in other areas of concern to the equine sport; not at least to ask the government to assess individual adaptations. What's interesting today is whether the Progress Party stands at its strong tribute to the horse sport and votes in favour of these proposals, and with it creates a majority for important remedial action for the horse sport. The representative Gulati did not say anything about this in his speech, and it should be clarified so that we can take the debate from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8699	The exclusive right model must be strong in Norway. In this way, we prevent a flow of foreign gambling companies from entering the market and making those who are already vulnerable to gambling addiction even more vulnerable. We already know that the Progress Party wants to scrap the exclusive model – therefore this proposal – but I must say that I am very disappointed that the Centre Party is now following and proposing to postpone the introduction of a loss limit for the horse sport, when they so well know that a postponement will help to put the entire exclusive model into play. The introduction of the loss limit must now be put in place, as it is a requirement that the EEA has had to maintain its exclusive right model in Norway. We have a monopoly of gambling in Norway, and we have that in order to protect those who are vulnerable and vulnerable to gambling addiction. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government's policy remains firm after the proposal has been made, and that the Stortinget, with the exception of the Central Party and the Advance Party, supports us in the fight against the occupation of the cynical foreign gambling companies in Norway. We're in the middle of an epidemic that affects us all, especially those of the society that's already exposed. When there's not much to do, you're home and isolated and maybe a little bit depressed, and it's not much to enjoy, it's fast tempting for someone to resume gambling. Unfortunately, we know that there has been an increase in the number of former game addicts who have now experienced a relapse. Gambling addiction affects the individual, but also the entire family is disintegrating and losing homes and homes. Yes, it is brutal and unmerciful, for some even end up taking their own lives because the debt has grown them above their heads, and they feel that they have failed their closest. According to a population survey published in 2020, Norwegian Rikstototo has about 38 000 players at risk of becoming problem players – 38 000! That's exactly why it's important that we remember why we're conducting a responsible game policy in our country, and we're holding it, rather than playing it, as the Center Party wants to do. This has been done in spite of letters of concern from a number of organisations working with people suffering from gambling addiction. I am pleased that we have a government that has stood up to the strong pressure from the horse sport, and that with steady hand has agreed to loss limits in cooperation with Norsk Rikstototo. The Christian People's Party will always stand firm in its responsible line of game policy, where the consideration of those who strive and their relatives is always put ahead of economic considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8716	Losing control of gambling is invisible on the body, but it destroys lives and families. Responsible gambling policy is important to protect each player from the dangers of excessive gambling. It is therefore important to protect the family and those around them who are vulnerable. That is why I am pleased that the majority in this Chamber agree that Norwegian Rikstototo should fill the concession terms and impose limits on how much individual can lose. Responsibility is the carrybar of the Norwegian exclusive gambling model. The fact that Stortinget takes responsibility seriously also supports the exclusive right model. Norsk Rikstototo also needs to strengthen accountability. Norwegian Rikstototo has many players and high turnover. The Norwegian centre of competence for gaming research at the University of Bergen conducted a survey, as described by the representative Lossisus, which was published this year, which says that there are about 38 000 people who are considered to be at risk of problematic gambling among those who play horse games. We have been committed to facilitating the phase-in of the loss limits so that they do not have such a significant impact on the income of the horse sport. The draft budget for 2021 therefore proposes that Norsk Rikstototo should not pay a toll. Then I see that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV propose different measures to strengthen the professional and galloping sport. I agree with the importance of horse racing, but I am a little surprised that these proposals will mean that Norsk Rikstototo will not finance anything other than professional and galloping sports, and that the state will even cover some of the costs of sports when they carry out their own events. That being said, the most important thing in this case is to show accountability in gambling policy. I'm glad there's a great deal of excitement about it. It has been said that the loss limits will make the games of Norsk Rikstototo less attractive, i.e. the loss limits will weaken the channelling of the gambling power of the regulated market. The channelling capacity of Norwegian Rikstototo is basically good. Overall, I believe that a good framework that ensures responsible gaming is an advantage for Norsk Rikstototo. Then Norsk Rikstototo, in cooperation with the horse sport, must continue to develop its offer of responsible games for a broad audience in order to be able to channel the gambling that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8731	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8736	In this case, two proposals are being put forward, but we do not yet fully know how the Progress Party is dealing with them. On the one hand, within the framework of socially responsible games, the government is asked to look at the possibility of introducing further individualisation of the loss limits after an assessment of individual players. We know that there are some professional players who do this with good capacity – let's say like that – and it means a lot to the sport that they choose Norsk Rikstototo and not others maybe more irresponsible suppliers. The second is to follow developments in Norsk Rikstototo and in dialogue and cooperation with Norsk Rikstototo, where appropriate, make adjustments after the introduction of these limits, or the loss limits. My question is, how will the Council of State follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8745	It is clear that if there is a majority in favour of introducing this, I, of course, as the Council of State, will follow it up by looking at the possibility of individual adaptation, if it should prove necessary because there is a majority in favour of it. I also think that we have done what we have been able to do in our proposals to care for those who can afford to lose – to say that way – because they can actually use everything they have won 365 days back in time, and they can also, if they choose not to play in January and February, but in March, play for 60,000 kroner. We have tried to care for the big players who can afford to lose, but at the same time we have tried to care for those who cannot afford to lose – and at any rate should not lose NOK 20 000 once a month.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8750	It's just the problem that the Council of State is now describing, we've been trying to address, that there's a lot of difference in how much you can afford to lose. There's also a lot of difference in the input to these games. Some run this more or less professionally and have an account that they have set aside for this, while others cannot manage it. That is why we want the Council of State, in close cooperation with Norsk Rikstototo and with the actors in the sector, to look into whether the solution that the Lottery Authority and the Department have now come up with is the perfect one — or whether there are actually opportunities for improvement in the light of experience. I understand that the Council of State will follow up on this. My question now is, because there is also support in this room, we hope, that the totalization fee will never be reintroduced: is there anything the Council of State supports?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8757	We have done something about the totalization fee for the current year because we got a coronary situation that made the circumstances of the horse sport quite difficult. We've done the same thing for next year, just because we see it's a challenge. I'm going to deal with what there's a majority for in this room, and as I read what the majority might do, it's that they equate this with Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8762	Let there be no doubt: the progress game is also occupied with the fates that suffer from gambling madness, which I choose to call it. There's a lot of fate there too, but we know that applies within a lot of fields. This applies, for example: addicts, it's people who eat too much sugar -- I'm a little happy with it myself, but that's what it is -- it can be people who are too happy in cars, or who are happy to buy property. Too many people can go wrong if there's too much. Then I wonder where to set the quotas next time. Is there going to be quotas on the pole for how many bottles of wine you get to buy, quotas for how many houses you can buy, and how many cars you can own? I think the Council of States should be honest that this is really about meeting the requirements of EEA law and the EU rules, because it is about the model of exclusive rights. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8767	Yes, we're concerned about the exclusive model. We think it's best for those who are game addicts, and we think it creates a safe framework around Norwegian games. That is why the majority in this Chamber will call for the model of exclusive rights. Just as the representative refers to Norwegian wine monopoly or mentions alcohol, I think on a wine monopoly it's exactly the same. One sets some frames if one sees that someone wears. They do that on their initiative because we've put the weakest party first. It's also in the exclusive model. This has been the reason, when a concession was granted in 2016, that a loss limit was to be set in order to maintain the exclusive right model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8772	Governments are occupied by game dependants. So are we. Part of it is something we're both concerned with, namely that Norsk Rikstototo should have a high level of channelling, that most of those who are on horseback and travelling in Norway should choose Norsk Rikstototo. Norwegian Rikstototo already has a very high level of channelling. If I don't remember correctly, it's as high as 98 pst. My question to the Council of State is whether she believes the channelling rate will be as high as today after these loss limits have been introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8778	I said a little about it at the end of my post. I said someone would claim that the loss limits would weaken the channelling ability of the gameplay, and that was also part of what I experienced the representative's question about. I think that both the Rikstototo and the horse sports together must develop games that are attractive and make people want to play, but within the framework that we put in this room by having a loss limit to ensure the exclusive model.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8784	A lot of this is about the relationship with the one-law model and the EEA Agreement. The representative, Lossius, from the Christian People's Party, was open to search for the Central Party in his article. It was well said that the introduction of the loss limit is a requirement imposed by the EEA for the maintenance of the one-rights model. So the Central Party in this case, in proposal No. 3, suggested that we wait until you have done the job of figuring out what special arrangements you can have to keep them, for example. operate games on a professional basis. Then my question is, is it that the one-right model will be lost if the Central Party gets a plurality for its proposal, or is this just a little overstated political rhetoric from the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8793	If the representative Pollestad says this is an exaggerated policy of the Christian People's Party, it is an exaggerated policy of the majority in this Chamber, because the majority in this Chamber says that we should introduce the loss limit because it was a requirement for the 2016 concession, so that one would be allowed to have an exclusive model of horse play in Norway. That was the basis for the concession, and it was to be introduced by 2021. So it'll be a few weeks. That was the basis for the concession, and then it is such that once you have obtained that agreement, you can say no, one is not interested in following it, one is not interested in following up the concession, and then one can say that one does not fulfil the basis of the concession given, and one can ask questions about whether Norway will then have a model of exclusive rights. It's the same way that we have the exclusive model in the other forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8798	As Councillor Bollestad referred to, we have a proposal for a decision that it is not yet certain whether there will be a majority in the Chamber. That's why I think it's important that the Progress Party soon announces what to vote for. There is at least one thing we know that there is a majority in this position, and I am very pleased that, for the majority of the committee, the government is asking to follow developments in Norsk Rikstototo and make any adjustments that ensure accountability, while at the same time facilitating the channelling of players to the regulated market and preventing any deportation of less socially responsible games. That is why I wondered whether the Council of State, all the time this is a majority comment from the committee in the discussion, could say something about what kind of adjustments are relevant for caring for both responsible games and the horse sport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8805	Now I must first be allowed to see if it becomes a majority decision or one. I always deal with majority decisions because it's a lead from Stortinget for the job you're supposed to do. But I'm busy with two things, and I think the representative is too. One is that I want us to have a responsible policy. At the same time, I also notice that in some of the proposals that lie here, the only Norwegian Rikstototo will support with its profits, in fact the busy and galloping industry. Because it's like that, for example. Norsk Rytterförbund is a member of Norsk Tipping, and they also have their income for riding halls etc. from Norwegian Tipping. So I'm dedicated to both being able to care for Norsk Rikstoto and at the same time being able to care for those who are addicted to games, based on what comes in the proposal of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8812	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8819	A sad day for the horse industry, says the representative Gulati. That is so true, and it is far on the way to Gulati and the cause of the Advancement Party. The horse industry is important. About 16,000 annual works give it off. The horse industry and horse sport are also an important cultural and traditional carrier around the country. The horse sport, the horse industry, supports a responsible game policy and the exclusive model, and they have worked and work constructively with it. They have created good systems in their game design and to ensure game security. The Progress Party does not support the industry in its action in this matter. Now the Progress Party acts like a bunch of furry kids who don't want to be there when they don't get it just the way they want it. Then the show will rather weaken the sport, weaken the industry they talk so nicely about out there, but when they come in here, they do the opposite. It is more important then that the Progress Party be given political furthing than that they are actually in favour of proposals that will help the sport, which will help the industry. Or you can suspect the Progress Party that they really want the whole exclusive model to live and help foreign gaming companies into Norway, so that you remove the whole of Rikstototo. They can be suspected of that. The Norwegian Travel Company has issued a press release in connection with this case. They write the following: ‘We therefore hope and believe that there will be a majority for the proposals of the Family and Culture Committee of Storting, which will provide Norwegian horse sports with a handshake for a demanding time. In this case, the elimination of the toalisator fee would result in the State taking over the financing of Norsk Horse Centre, as well as the financing of tasks related to doping control, pedigree veterinarians, pedigree control and preventive doping work.’ The Progress Party could have been there and made a difference – many, many, many millions worth of the sport. No, says the Progress Party, we choose to be politically angry instead. It's very bad for the sport. I can summarize what I read on Trav365.no, it says that the Progress Party ‘[s] weighs the horse sport on the finish line’. That's a perfectly correct conclusion. Unfortunately, I also have to state at the very end of the article that the Right might have reached out and participated in some of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8837	For a respectful change of words, the President would recommend that political co-representatives be referred to as something other than ‘further kids’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8842	Thank you, President, and a special thank you for being very clear on the P this time, for mixing P and B can be a little demanding in this kind of discussion. I would like to associate some comments with the option and also with the previous article. I hope that the Labour Party will consider proposal No. 3 from the Center Party, up on this. But I want to go back a little bit to the Progress Party, which I think has done a lot strange in this matter. I suspect that a set of its own batch is a little higher than the horse nutrition, and that is regrettable. What was the point of making a proposal for a representative to remove the monopolistic game in the middle of this case? That's what the Progress Party did, and I think it was very unwise of them. So to the proposals for Decisions I to IV on the subject: I expect the Progress Party to vote in favour of them. It was for the sake of the Progress Party we suggested IV, to wait until 1 January 2022, so that one should not be bound by the plural cooperation they currently have with the Left, Christian People's Party and Right when it comes to the budget, and which I understand is a somewhat demanding cooperation for the Progress Party to be in. But IV is dealing with January 1, 2022, and we hope that it's not a government budget that the Progress Party should be concerned about. There is something in this case that I think is too little illuminated: it is almost made as that having a loss limit of NOK 20 000 is for or against a good game policy and for or against gambling dependence. For most people in Norway, the pain limit for gambling addiction is long before NOK 20,000 a month is lost, so this is just one of a number of tools for having responsible games at all. We're pointing out from the Center Party's side that we don't want the man in the street to lose $25,000 a month. We point out that those who play horse professionally – because there is a knowledge element in this game – should have the opportunity to continue their activity, simply because it is important not just for the troubling but for the entire horse environment in Norway. That is what this matter is all about. I would also like to commend the case spokesman, whom I believe through I-IV has put in place a good recommendation from the Committee. So it may well be that it was this representative’s responsibility to report that the case spokesperson was not present in the debate – I have now done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8857	I will start by saying that the Progress Party will vote to permanently remove the toalisator fee. We've always meant that, and we're glad that it's now becoming a majority. We're also going to vote to postpone the introduction of a loss limit. We think that is a good proposal. Listening to the representative Lauvås from this pulpit is almost like hearing someone taking saltomortals, considering where he starts, and where he lands. If someone is now failing the horse sport, it's the Workers' Party, who went high on the track and was concerned about finding solutions, but who is thus down to nothing but symbolism. I have to say that it was also a little special to listen to the Council of State instead. She stood here and said, when she was challenged at what the economic consequences for the horse industry, the horse industry and the sports are, that it is important that the industry and the game companies have attractive and good games that make people want to play and keep playing. But the starting point is that you work to prevent gambling addiction. That's pretty special. This is an industry of 16 000 people who are concerned about this. It's a lot of young people. Yes, we have a challenge, and we're going to work to reduce gambling addiction, but we also have to say that this is an industry that takes on many people who are on their way out to the slope, but who come back because they're being taken care of in an environment where there are actually many who feel a bit alien, but who come in and become part of a wonderful environment. This is a blow for that industry and for all those who are concerned about being in this sport. The representative of the Christian People's Party also said this is about the fight against cynical foreign gambling companies. The challenge now is that many are going to play with foreign companies and no longer play here, where you have control, where you have a mentoring system and have taken several other steps to help people who end up in gambling addiction, and that's important. There'll be a lot of symbol politics here. The Council of State responsible for the agricultural industry and this sport, which has shut down the fur animal industry, ensures that a new industry is sent out in a painful and difficult time. Maybe it also becomes very fast an industry that faces a slow death because it is a large majority of this house that makes sure to have framework conditions that are destructive to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8872	Hearing the contradictions of the Advance Party in the change of lines and their attempts to minimize gambling addiction are just very, very sad. To hear the Central Party's attempt to calm down from the seriousness of a postponement proposal actually means, as well. It just has to be said. We all agree on the importance of horse sport, and that is why they have been given good time to prepare for the implementation of the loss limit and are protected by transitional arrangements. I see that the Workers' Party, the Senterpartiet and SV now propose that Norsk Rikstoto no longer grant to Norsk Hestesenter, and that this cost should be taken over by the state for the net sum of 43 million. kr. With that proposal, Norsk Rikstototo will no longer have any obligation to contribute to Norwegian horse-keeping and horse-keeping at large, but will become a gambling company that only generates income for the Norwegian Travsgesellschaft and Norsk Jockeyklub and their activities. I think this is very unfortunate, because it narrows down purposes that enjoy Norwegian Rikstototo's gambling, and it can also affect the legitimacy of its own provider of horse racing. The proposal for the State to take over the costs of the sport of horses for the lawful pursuit of the occupation and galloping is also problematic, because in the field of animal welfare, it is common for the owner of animals or the organiser of events with animals to cover the cost of complying with the legislation and the welfare of animals. The same principle is also applied in other areas of Norway. I therefore think it is unfortunate if the state should cover the costs of the event of driving and galloping to have a vet and to carry out doping checks. The proposals from the opposition seem simply very little thought. They didn't get to the finish line. I also very much support the overall priorities of the parties that propose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8885	This is an unlikely required day for horse nutrition. There is a feeding of people around the country, active young people, and young people who take care of young people who have little else to do with, get people to cool and who are unlikely to be important for many environments around the countryside. The paradox here is that the government will now introduce a model where one does not know the consequences, where one should have such a strict playing limit that one can actually risk playing on a horse not being interesting in the future. I want to clarify: if there's something I'm burning for, it's the one-right model and that one's taking care of it. For this reason, it is also a paradox to me that the Progress Party says they are so busy with horse nutrition when they go in to remove the model that makes one actually get a viable game for Norwegian horse nutrition. It's a shame we can't go in to postpone, to see how we can find schemes that also allow us to get a part of the players on here, so it's interesting for the smaller players to be involved and run with this. There's something about a critical mass for the game that makes it interesting for people to play here. Unfortunately, today people have many alternatives to play. Even if a person is trying to hold a one-right model in Norway, we also have to rely on him to work in practice, and then it's important that one has an alternative. Rikstototo has really tried. They have many systems in place, and they have individual solutions where they look at those who are in danger. Horse games have just gone down for that reason, when one has taken the roof – registers games, sys for a responsible role. That one then should not be allowed to find solutions that are viable, I think is sin. It is extremely important that we now be able to follow this up, and I had hoped for a plurality that had gone beyond what is here today. But it's actually now that it's up to the Progress Party whether we can get a solution after all, where we can follow up on this in the long term and try to find better solutions. But I can't understand that there's a danger to the one-right model if one had dared to wait, like proposal No. 3, from the Center Party, playing in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8899	There's a lot of vision here, but there's no way to get into everything. It's certainly that if we don't make sure that Norsk Rikstototo gets good enough terms, everyone will lose. We're going to weaken what we want to take care of, the exclusive model, and we're going to weaken the industry if we don't now make sure to do a proper job with this. If we are to keep them – I choose to call it – outlawed gambling companies, it has to be done. I have challenged the Council of State on this before, and I do it again: she must seize the illegal gambling companies operating in the country. They empty the box to Norsk Rikstototo and don't give five cents back to the sport. There's something called geo-blocking. We'll evaluate whether it's not soon time to put that into practice. But as long as the council has not turned that switch on, we must ask the council to use common sense, and she must also talk to the industry. She has to talk to the sports, so that we get a sustainable Norwegian Rikstototo that can fulfill its mission, the mission that the state has actually given them. There is now a great responsibility in the Council of State and in the Department for the continuation of Norsk Rikstototo, the exclusive right model and the channelling model, the mission of Norsk Rikstototo. For making mistakes here, the Council of State will help to weaken important district jobs; it is now one thing, but it will also help to weaken the model of exclusive rights. A wise state council can do the opposite, she can help strengthen the sport, she can help strengthen the exclusive model, but then she has to listen to the sport, she has to listen to the industry. I can recommend a number of articles in Trav and Galopp-Neut, which have addressed these matters in a very good way. These articles can be read by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8908	It is, of course, the grace of fright that there are regulators from the Workers' Party who are to stand up on this pulpit and arrest the Progress Party. Had it not been for the Progress Party in this matter, we had actually had no debate on this at all in this Chamber. The Labour Party, which I have never taken on either in a stable or on a bus or anywhere else, is in fact in favour of these amendments and has not made a single proposal until the Progress Party has now raised this matter as a Document 8 proposal. If they were so concerned about the horse sport, they might be able to get involved in this debate a little bit earlier. This debate has come about because the Progress Party has listened to the horse industry and the horse people and all the recordings we got when the government announced these drastic changes. As I see it, the government is responsible for this – no one else. But once the matter has been raised here, everyone who does not support the proposal of the Progress Party to simply stop this madness is responsible. I think it's very strange that the Center Party is going to arrest us so that we don't want to tie a new increase to what to do in the budget for 2022. It's a discussion we might come back to in connection with the state budget for 2022, naturally. We have programmed that we are against the toalisator fee, I guess we were the first party that did. That is why we are also going to support the proposal of the Central Party. So at least it's clear. We will also support a postponement of the matter, and I hope that more people will think about it after the debate today when it comes to supporting it. It is quite clear that the Council of State has not informed the matter well enough when talking about how to organise more games into Norway, and so many representatives stand up here talking about sustainable games. Sustainable games – is it more sexy for those who are addicted to games? Very strange rhetoric. We come back to the proposal of the Progress Party to lift the monopoly of games. There should also be no surprise, as there is something programmed with us. That it's going to mean a defeat of Norsk Rikstototo, it doesn't have to do anything. We can see, among other things: to our neighbours in Sweden, where a licence model has been introduced, which works very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8921	There's commitment to this case. The President will not add up to free dressage – just so they say. Then the president has to ask, in fact, if a postponement proposal was put forward right now, because it became very uncertain to the president. But it could possibly come back and cancel or confirm, because then we have to deal with it in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8928	I need to answer the representative of Hoksrud in the case of fur animals. I just ask who first sent that matter out, and who put it in government, when the Christian People's Party did not put it in government, when this decision was taken – with a completely different starting point than what could be the final result in the case. Then I have to say something about caring for the big players, or those who have competence and knowledge. I also feel that it is said very differently about in the hall. The loss limits shall protect the vulnerable players and their related players. That's the reason. The set of loss limits at Norsk Rikstototo ensures that players are different, and that some are knowledgeable players who wager more money than others. The loss limits will not be a limit for those who can afford to lose and are knowledgeable, who play over time and earn money on the horse, because the gain can be added to the loss limit. The loss limit can protect those who lose a lot of money over time in Norsk Rikstototo. For many, as was also said from this pulpit – I think it was the representative of Geir Pollestad who said it – 20 000 kroner is also a lot of money. For many players, 20,000 dollars per month is too much to lose, while others will be able to lose more. But this is also taken into account. I want to say in the end that it is difficult to find reliable criteria for individualisation of the loss limits, but I want to look at the possibilities for this in cooperation with Norsk Rikstototo and the Lottery Authority. My starting point is that it's both room for those who can afford to lose, and protection for those who don't have that opportunity, with what's on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8949	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8954	I see the debate as more people are going crazy. This may also lead to disqualification, so I think it's a little bit wondered if the Center Party, the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV, who in this setting have shown a willingness to meet the industry, will agree on the least we can get a few things about. Then I hope that the Progress Party will be able to clarify that they, if neither proposal. 2 or 3 get multiples, subsidiaryly will support I and III. It will be very important to get a majority in the UK for these matters when we continue to put pressure on the Minister of Agriculture and the Government in this matter. Put a horse sport and horse nutrition first, do it, because it's the four games that have shown the will to do it, and then we have to solve the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8959	We old horse owners can get a little engaged on the uphill side, so I thought maybe I'd explain what I meant when I said "restraint". I do not promote any postponement proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, I believe we support proposal No. 3, from the Central Party, that one should wait to introduce the loss limits until after the Storting has been properly informed. So I thought that I made it clear that the second point that we will subsidize is II, ‘The government is asking to make the cancellation of the totalization fee permanent’. We will come back to any other things later, but in this case, what we are now supporting – primarily the proposal that we ourselves have promoted, and the other two points that I mentioned now, secondary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8966	This is an important matter for many, and I have to admit that when this matter came up, I also actually believed that the Right was occupied with horse feeding. I have a lot of friends in the horse industry who are eager Right-people for some reason, so I'm a little disappointed that we can't come any longer with this case. As I said, for us, it's not about challenging the one-right model. He's absolutely decisive. But that's exactly why it's so important that we can get a system that Rikstototo can live with and develop, so that one actually gets a little bit more to the sport, to all the bananas around – like to the track where the representative Lauvås was out running trial runs – where one now has to work and may have to lay down, and cannot keep the apparatus up so that the horse sport is a sport for the whole country. That is actually what this is all about. I think that Rikstototo has a model that may need to be further developed for individual loss limits, which can actually be better than a fixed limit. It's like both Bollestad and Pollestad said here today: It's very different for each and every one that can live with. When one can actually create its own setup, where one is followed up and gets individual advice, I think it's a viable way to lift the game. And then I'm going to ask for a new round. I do not understand that the Progress Party cannot join and support a review to see how one can further develop this game. Actually, that's what the horse industry is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8977	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8982	The claims that the Workers' Party has not done anything until the Progress Party took this up are – to put it correctly – just nonsense. We in the Workers' Party stand quite mountainous in our commitment to the industry and have done so long. I am just reminded that the Progress Party has had government councils that could have taken action on this. I have personally met a State Council from the Progress Party on the Mountain Travbahn, and he promised to sort it out, but nothing happened as long as he was the Council of State, and as long as the Advance Party was in government. Finally, I just want to ask the Council of State – because I would like to have it clarified: Did I hear correctly when the Council of State said that the EEA Agreement required loss limits? In that case, I would just ask that she confirm that that is what she said, and that she would like to do it here tonight, before this debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e8989	You have to do things that you don't agree with. I think everyone here knows that fur animals were not a matter where the Progress Party was concerned with that result. I am glad that much has happened there, and it is also thanks to the fact that the Progress Party was not in government. But the way I experience it at least, and the way the Council of State fronts this case, this is a matter that the Christian People's Party really wants, and it's possible actually to learn from things that don't go so well. I believe that this is such a case as well. It's fun to listen to the commitment and someone who says that this is they're concerned about, and all sorts of things, but if the Progress Party hadn't promoted this proposal and we hadn't had this debate here today, the Council and the Department themselves would have decided what this would look like. Although the Progress Party does not support all the proposals, I do believe that the proposals we support are and help to address the industry. But there is also a large majority in this Chamber who really want that development to be that there are going to be major challenges for the horse industry, for all those in the race, and for all those in the horse environment, because the framework conditions the majority now wants to base are going to have consequences. I'm sorry that the majority now chooses to go away from the model we've had, the scheme we've had, which would at least make sure we didn't. Then I'm glad that there is now a majority in favour of the permanent removal of the toalisator fee. It's important, but unfortunately the majority does it so that you stumble a little bit. I think it is good that the Central Party is in favour of this proposal and supports the proposals of the Progress Party. I also experienced a period when there were several other parties that were, but unfortunately have gone away from it now. That's why this evening ends as a bit of a bad night for a lot of those who are in the horse industry, for those who are engaged in sports. It's very bad, because I think it's an industry and an environment where you're very, very good at taking care of people. And there are many future leaders there -- young women who turn out to be very, very good leaders, and who come out and take leadership tasks in the big community. That's why I would love to see you have a majority in this room that still saw the importance of securing it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e9001	At least it shouldn't be on the issue, and I have to be so honest and say that I wonder if we've read the same setting all of us when we hear the debate. Now, the Progress Party has the most far-reaching proposal that lies there, which says that there should be no loss limits, and then the Centre Party has a proposal that says that we should wait to introduce the same loss limits. But apart from that, there's a lot of agreement about it all, most of the other stuff that's standing here. In fact, we have not been on the side of the government parties to the two proposals that are going on in the economy, but are there any people who have really done something about the totalization fee this year and next year, it is precisely the government that has proposed this, and I have said that we will get back in later budgets if we are going to do it later. Ergo, we've got two of the points in the setting. Then there's one point in the situation where there's a discussion about whether there's a majority for or not a majority for. There remains to be a look after voting, but in any case there is a majority comment that says almost exactly the same thing, that the Council of State and the Ministry should follow up what happens after the introduction of loss limits, together with Norsk Rikstototo, to look at the channelling and make any adjustments. Then we are left with one proposal of the foreign Roman numerals where there is disagreement. In other words, I think we are actually engaged in the horse industry, we who are here today and are debating, and largely also agree on what is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e9012	I will first answer the representative, Lauvås, because I believe that I have not used the word EEA in this, but I may have done so without remembering it. What I've said is that it was given a concession in 2016, and that's what we're following up on. Its assumption was that there were loss limits introduced. In order to maintain the exclusive right model, it is an agreement that we should have thoughts for both gambling and sports, and we believe that we do with this introduction, on the basis of which the concession was granted. Then I have to tell the representative Hoksrud again that I think it is very special that the Progress Party, which had the Minister of Agriculture who dealt with the concession request in 2016 and set loss limits by 2021 as a requirement for the concession, are those who are not now going to impose loss limits. Putting that responsibility on the hands of the others, who are now introducing what the Minister of Agriculture of the Progress Party actually called for in 2016, seems to me to be quite special. It might be easier to sit on the outside and play in than then one put on the inside and would take responsibility. With regard to what we have been discussing today, I think we fully agree that horse racing is an important sport for a lot of people, but we also agree that there are a lot of people who are struggling – 38 000, according to the centre of expertise we have established against gambling addiction – and all the families involved. That's why when we've given a basis for a concession, we're going to follow it up. The basis is to take two considerations into account, and that is what we do in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e9021	There are several things that I find incomprehensible about this matter. One that is incomprehensible is that one chooses to destroy the economy and legs as a well-functioning horse industry with about 16 000 jobs. I do not understand why a political decision creates a completely unnecessary crisis in an industry. The other thing that is incomprehensible to me is why those who are in favour of the exclusive model – I am against the gambling monopoly – are actually destroying the basis for the exclusive model in horse games, because the introduction of loss limits is likely to lead to a lower channelling rate than today. So it may be that the decline is less than I think, but the introduction of loss limits will cause more people to choose to play on Swedish and other country betting companies. The Labour Party and the Centre Party have an opportunity here today to ensure that this is not introduced if they vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. I have heard the Workers' Party and the Centre are very concerned with the economics of the horse industry, but they can therefore prevent this economic problem from actually becoming a problem, by voting in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party – which is why we are debating here today – that we should not impose loss limits. I am pleased that the totalizer fee has been removed for 2021. There is something the Progress Party has intended to do for many years, and we are therefore going to support the proposal to remove it for several years in the future, because we believe that the toalisator fee should not be there. But to say that the removal of the toalisator fee – and to the extent that the tasks of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV want to transfer to the State budget – saves the horse industry, with this problem that is now being introduced, that is wrong. It's like giving a little bit with one hand while taking a lot more with the other. You can do it to ease your conscience, but it doesn't change the fact that tomorrow's voters to impose loss limits, when we vote, create an economic crisis for the horse industry that is completely unnecessary and that can be prevented by not imposing the loss limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e9032	The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e9037	There are many things I could have wanted to record. Of course, we want this to be postponed, but if one had listened to the diet, they're actually asking that we get a multiple here. It actually asks the industry to do so, and it should be noted by the Progress Party. And if the Progress Party really has the suckle for the industry that they say, the first thing they should do is put away the proposal to remove the one-right model. If there's anything horse nutrition actually hadn't managed to live with, it's whether he gets away. One can look at Denmark and the development of the economy of tourism today. One indicated that Sweden was doing well. In fact, Sweden is not doing very well in relation to the developments they had. So to say that one will do the best for horse nutrition, if one does not disregard the proposal to remove the one-rights model – it is actually not to live with for horse nutrition in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-10.ana.ud394e9045	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox The items on today's maps have thus been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
