ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e58	An application for welfare leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eva Kristin Hansen in the days of 22 and 23 October. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Kristian Torve, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e78	Kristian Torve is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e85	On behalf of the deposit representatives Helge André Njåstad, Terje Halleland, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Geir Pollestad, Siv Mossleth, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Lene Vågslid, Eigil Knutsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the draft election inquiry, KVU, by arm to Bergen from E134.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e90	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e122	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Green Party 5 minutes, and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, a sequence change of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government will be given, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e129	I think I'm talking on behalf of a total accumulation when I express how important Nordic community is to our country. The Nordic region is our most important geographical, historical, linguistic, cultural and value-added neighbourhood. Even the ongoing coronary apathy, which in periods has led to closed borders, is not capable of questioning how closely connected our Nordic countries are. 70 years of institutionalised cooperation have also built a closeness and trust between our countries in the policy area. This has been important, because our countries also have some differences. Some are in NATO, some are not in Norway, together with Iceland, outside the EU. We are dealing with two fixed issues relating to the relationship between the Nordic countries. This is the annual report on Nordic cooperation and the report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council on the activities of the year that we are behind. In order to take the Nordic cooperation message first, it is positive that once again an ambition to develop and strengthen cooperation between our countries is firmly established. At a time when the world around us is becoming more uncertain, we need to show our firm anchoring in just the North and make this cooperation visible further. To put it on the head, we are, each for us, landing with a few million people. The Nordic region is almost 30 million people, and as a total block we will be respected in many contexts, but also noticed. A development we look at with particular concern is the security policy situation in Europe following Russia's annexation of Crimea and a generally more self-reliant Russia in foreign policy. This is a matter of direct concern to the Nordic countries. There is also reason to worry about developments in the rule of law, democracy, freedom of expression and international legal order in some European countries. The Nordic region must be united against these developments, and the communication provides a good basis for the Nordic vision of these issues. The Communication also mentions the three strategic priorities for the next four years. First of all, a Green Nordic says we should promote a green transformation of societies and contribute to carbon neutrality and sustainable circular and bio-based economy. Secondly, a competitive Nordic region is saying that together we should promote green growth based on knowledge, innovation, mobility and digital integration. Finally, a socially sustainable Nordic region suggests that together we should promote an inclusive, egalitarian and coherent region based on common values and enhanced cultural exchange and well-being. These ambitions are good. They express a set of values and ideas that all Nordic countries can agree on, and where we have a distinct advantage. An overall committee considered these strategic priorities to be good guidelines for deepening Nordic cooperation within and inspiring countries outside the Nordic region. At the same time, it was stressed that we need close contact and cooperation on instruments and practical implementation, and close cooperation between national parliaments and governments if we are to succeed in promoting these visions. One specific area the Committee drew up was the need for enhanced transport cooperation in order to ensure climate neutrality. This applies to actions in both shipping, aviation and road and rail transport, and it is worth mentioning that a unanimous Nordic Council has decided to call on the Nordic Council of Ministers to restore its own Council of Ministers for Transport. The size meets the government's efforts to follow up the decision. The report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council on the activities in 2019 describes extensive activities in a number of areas of great importance to the Nordic population. A Joint Committee expresses its strong support for the Nordic Council as an important cooperation body between Nordic countries in order to solve practical problems for citizens and lead to cross-border cooperation. The report also explains the process towards the collapse of the vision and the new strategic priorities I reviewed in the report on Nordic cooperation. The Swedish Government’s delegation to the Nordic Council was briefed on its work already in the spring of 2019. One aspect worth mentioning from the report is that the Stortinge had the presidency of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Cooperation in 2019, and was the host of the 28th. The BSPC session in August 2019. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e154	Like the representative Schou, I would like to begin by stating that cooperation in the Nordic region is of very great value to Norway – mainly because it creates what I say historically and today is a good Nordic cooperation, but also a good Nordic cohesion. Next to the national identification that we have, of course, we get a Nordic identification through this cooperation. It makes us more international and stronger. Institutional cooperation is important and the framework of cooperation. The Council of Ministers' budget of about 1.2 billion Norwegian krones finance very important Nordic activities in culture, education and research. The outbreak of the corona epidemic has shown us the importance of strong Nordic cooperation. That we are not able to achieve more concrete cooperation in such a situation is what I will characterise in the current situation as highly objectionable. This has caused concern in the parliamentary environment. This concerns the understanding of the purely medical challenges and different government strategies in implementing concrete measures. This has been particularly striking in the issue of the closure of borders in the Nordic region, a core issue of Nordic cooperation. The development of joint preparedness and cooperation plans will therefore be high on the agenda for the work of the Nordic Council in due course. This year's big news about Nordic cooperation provides a good overview of the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. New is the vision of a green, competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region. The timing of the efforts and selection of priority areas is in line with the signals of the Nordic Council. However, there is reason to be disappointed that the Council was not involved in the preparation of the new vision for the Council of Ministers. The green shift must come. The North must go ahead in Europe. Conversion and efforts are required for a sustainable, circular and bio-based economy. The switchover must be based on research and supported by climate-adapted solutions in transport, the construction industry, etc. It is also important to take care of natural diversity. In this context, Nordisk genbank is an important player who deserves our active support. Efforts to ensure a competitive business in the Nordic region are also essential. In areas of activity such as health and education, the use of digitised solutions can open up new, exciting opportunities for the population. Also the investment in a socially sustainable Nordic region, which contributes to good, equal and safe health and well-being for all, is something we can all put behind. As a small point of reference, it is worth noting that the Nordic Council’s report on Nordic cooperation briefly mentions the Nordic Council’s input to the work of the Council of Ministers. Often, initiatives and proposals from the Council have been the basis for the Council of Ministers’ actions. I would like to make it clear that I am frustrated by the members of the Nordic Council of Ministers that decisions in the Council are not reasonably respected by the Council of Ministers. Our good cooperation minister is very well aware of this issue, and one of the most important discussions we should have in this Chamber on this occasion is the extent to which decisions in the Council are to be respected by the Council of Ministers. For my part, I am quite clear that there must be a reasonable balance between the Council of Ministers, representing the Government, and the elected bodies. Nevertheless, there is clearly a strong frustration across all party divisions and across all the Nordic Councils, where I have been with for many years now, that this balance is not satisfactory from the point of view of the Nordic Council. That is why I stress this so clearly in this article. Also for 2019, the report from the Stortingets delegation to the Nordic Council is extensive and shows great activity by the members of the delegation. Eleven new Member States have been promoted on important issues, such as strengthening Nordic media competence on investigating journalism, microplastics in the body and Nordic efforts on natural carbon capture and storage solutions, to name a few. Discussion of budgetary priorities has, as usual, been an important part of the work of the Bureau and the selection bodies. This is a process that we're still working on. As I see it, it has been difficult to get through even unanimous decisions of the Council of Ministers, including with regard to the budget. For example, as the representative, Mr Schou, pointed out, he wanted to establish a separate Council of Transport Ministers and also wanted to provide financial support to the 'Nordic School' at a level that is in line with the Council's opinion. However, I would like to add here that I have a lot of knowledge that the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Minister for Cooperation are behind what has been the unanimous decision of the Council. The problems are in other arenas. As the report shows, the members are also involved in the Council's international activities. For example, between 2018 and 2019: Jorod Asphjell President of Parliamentary Baltic Sea Cooperation. The size was therefore the host of the organisation’s session, which was held in the days 24–27. August. Furthermore, the Nordic Council maintains close contact with Vest-Norden. Of course, the issue of Nordic Council involvement in EU relations has been a recurring issue. The need for common understanding and adaptation between Nordic countries when implementing EU directives is an important area to address. This shows, in particular, the Nav scandal, the wrongful imprisonment and the unlawful detention of aid in the United Kingdom for treatment. In this area, Nordic cooperation on a common understanding of the law may have much to contribute. Finally, much of the activities of the Nordic Council are of course carried out in the various selections. That's four of them. I don't go into it any more now, in the capacity that I have, but I expect the representatives of the various committees to take the floor in the debate and explain their special areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e184	There is a broad agreement in Norway on the importance of Nordic cooperation. I can support the contents of the previous two articles, which were good. I choose to concentrate on defence and security policy and cooperate there. Traditionally, the Nordic countries have cooperated closely on e.g. culture, research, climate and the environment, but if foreign and security policy has cooperated with our weaker countries. It's coming, among other things. by various links with international organisations and different priorities. Sweden and Finland are e.g. Members of the EU, but not of NATO, while for Norway, the image is reversed. 11 years ago, Thorvald Stoltenberg outlined 13 measures to improve Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy. Following a report from the NUPI, the Nordic region received a small push in the direction of closer cooperation after that. Among other things, the tension between the West and Russia, new military technologies and new patterns of cooperation between NATO and the Nordic countries have contributed to it. But if you go through the 13 actions, you'll see that little has happened. Last month, it was clear that Norway, Sweden and Finland have signed a new Memorandum of Understanding on joint ambitions for preparedness and coordinated military operations in crisis and conflict. New challenges and a changing threat picture contribute to increasing insecurity in Nordic countries, not least the new hybrid threats and a more challenging situation in the north. To meet this situation, the three countries will strengthen their ability to operate together militarily, and there may be in-depth cooperation also on coordinated operational planning for areas of common interest. It goes without saying that it is about the northern parts of Finland, Norway and Sweden. This cooperation agreement goes beyond previous agreements. It does so by not only applying cooperation in peacetime, as in the past. The agreement explicitly states that cooperation shall apply beyond peacetime. In practice, this means that the three countries commit themselves to cooperation if we are to come into conflict or war situations. Of course, it also has some additional features, as Norway is a member of NATO, but as a member of NATO PA, I have experienced very many times that both Finland and Sweden are very active in the parliamentary discussions. And even if they're not members, after Sweden presented its last long-term plan, there's no doubt that one looks at NATO as an important partner, even though one, as I said, is not a member. The agreement concluded between the three countries also provides for the development of security of supply solutions between the three countries, even in the event of a crisis or war. Such an agreement has already been made, and it is binding. Such cooperation means that the Center Party is both important and necessary. We live in a much more troubled time. Several have asked whether the United States is willing to support Europe, whether its will is as strong as it has been in the last decade. There may have been statements that might ask that question. It is happening at the same time that Russia has strongly upgraded the military in our neighbourhood and through annexation of Crimea has shown that they are willing to use military power where policy does not lead. Difor is a much closer Nordic cooperation both necessary and important in this area as well. We have long and historical traditions to work together. We also have history where we have been in strife and war. Luckily, it's been a long time. And it is of course also important that Denmark and Iceland are both well informed about this agreement and can eventually join him as the cooperation takes shape.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e203	I want to look forward. Vision 2030 is a very important document and an important vision for Nordic cooperation in the continuation. The fact that we have managed to prioritise together, and that we agree that we should invest in a large Nordic green shift in a Europe that is in a new green give, is important. It is important for industrial development, it is important for Norwegian competitiveness and for Nordic competitiveness. Creating and converting in a challenging time is important, also in order to maintain and develop our well-being in common in the Nordic countries. Part of this is also the climate change we are in, where the Danish government has set itself a very offensive goal of cutting 70 pst. by 2030. Norway has said 55 pst. We're waiting for what the EU should say. However, the Nordic countries are undoubtedly the leaders of the green transition in the EU. We are the green corner of Europe. I am delighted to be led by the Nordic Council's Sustainable Nordic Committee. All the things we work with are related to the circular economy, which is one of the big stakes in the EU's green giving as well. Carbon capture and storage is one of the major examples of a circular economy and resource reuse. Fortunately, the other Nordic countries are also concerned. The Northern Lights Company is an example that both Sweden, Denmark and Finland have interests in this, and the Finnish Fortum is also leading the carbon capture side of waste. But biomass is also a major common denominator for the Nordic countries, where we need to make more use of and use of the large amount of biomass we have. There is also a knowledge page on which it is important to cooperate, and it comes down to fire regulations in Denmark that make the use of and construction of wood difficult. We have not kept up with training, for example. architects and engineers who can build in three. The common Nordic competence must be upheld. Plastic is another challenge that we share – the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, the North. There is a great deal of interest in this. Sea acidification is also a common interest, and we must safeguard our common large fishing resources. The marine economy is also a topic, and we had the pleasure of having with Prime Minister Erna Solberg at the previous polling meeting, which briefed on his initiative in the UN. Then we have also established some common Nordic actors who are really standing in the green shift over time. The Swan label is almost 40 years old, but lives in the best of shape and is a leading eco-label. And now we can get everything from branded biodiesel to branded investment fund. The Nordic Investment Bank is another example of an institution with a long history, which is also being renewed, where the European Investment Bank almost goes down its heels. It is important to take care of the possibilities of digitisation in the Nordic countries, but also that we are strong together, in fact, in finance. At the top of this green shift, we have to make sure that we take advantage of the possibilities we have in common. But if we look back a little bit, until 2018, we were in a forest fire and drought summer. It challenges preparedness and social security. We managed to cooperate well on that. If we look at 2020, we have a pandemic that we have dealt with differently in the Nordic countries. That is why the common cultural history, our language and our democracy are also important to uphold. Cooperation is particularly challenging with the situation we've been in now. The overall defence mindset in Norway is strong in the other Nordic countries. We have to build it on, and help the other Nordic countries to incorporate their strategies that way of thinking. Finally, I would like to say that we need a new political giver in Nordic parliamentary cooperation. I have called for a Nordic treaty debate, in which the parliamentary leaders participate to a greater extent. We need to sharpen political cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e231	Over the past ten years, we have seen how the European map has changed. New states have emerged, new and old conflicts have flared up, and we have experienced cross-border operations. Then it's great to live in a corner of Europe that works through close, stable and good neighbourly conditions. Nordic cooperation has a broad popular anchoring, and the contact between people in the Nordic region is close. In order to achieve this, continuous effort is required to strengthen the bands. It is particularly important to create understanding and commitment among young and new Nordic citizens. The Christian People's Party wants the Stortinget to work to strengthen and develop both political and popular Nordic cooperation. Stronger Nordic integration can further develop the Nordic region as one of the world's most dynamic and innovative regions. This applies in most areas of society, business, culture and political cooperation with clear borders. Together we stand stronger, the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers carry out the tasks. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should contribute by participating in commitments. The specificities and diversity of neighboring people, of whom we can both fascinate and learn, is an advantage for the community in open and mutual cooperation. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the work of promoting and developing Nordic culture and strengthening Nordic sympathy. The 1962 Helsinki Agreement underpins cooperation, called the Nordic Constitution. A new vision has been adopted in 2019 that the Nordic region will become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030. It requires innovation and efforts in most areas of society, let me mention cultural exchanges, trade, Nordic transport plans, media openness, border issues and work on common Nordic personal numbers – and common Nordic climate and energy policies, the green shift. In this respect, I must commend the work of the Nordic Association. I myself have been a contact person for the organisation for a number of years, for the municipality of Karmøy. There have been many good visits, including: Associations of friends from neighbouring countries. In particular, I would like to highlight the work that is also being done for young people who can apply for Nordjobb, where young people meet opportunities in the common labour market. It can provide young people with insight into neighbouring countries, and contacts with other young people can be linked. Already in a couple of weeks, the Nordic literature week will be organised, and a selection of texts will be read aloud at libraries, schools and elsewhere throughout the Nordic region at the same time. In my own further education, I got the joy of this collaboration by getting a week's study stay in Copenhagen to learn about Nordic languages. The award is awarded annually, and the film award for best film was awarded during the Nordic Youth Film Festival in Tromsø. Democracy, history and values unite the Nordics, opportunities unite us, language and culture unite us. Being able to talk to each other in Scandinavian gives a great social gain and strengthens the feeling. The wealth that lies in child culture by seeing Pippi Langstrømpe and Emil in Lønneberg in the original language, gives joy, language understanding and cultural understanding. H.C. Andersen's stories are becoming more genuine in Danish, and Lina Sandell's beautiful psalm texts need no translation. The cultural field is strongly affected by covid-19. Therefore, it is good that emphasis has been placed on protecting support schemes for the Nordic art and cultural actors in the next year's budget. Understanding the Nordic languages underscores our common history and creates fellowship. Language is also important for mobility in the Nordic region. In the case of language cooperation, as well as the Nordic Sami Institute at the Sami University of Kautokeino, the Christian People's Party is pleased that this is maintained as far as possible. There are good reasons why the Nordic countries are committed to more structured and enhanced cooperation in the field of transport. In Vision 2030, there are expectations of developing green transport solutions between countries. It is a prerequisite for growth, competitiveness and jobs. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the EEA Agreement, which links us to Europe. However, it is right to mention that it is important to get involved in EU affairs as early as possible, and on this point, through EEA and EFTA cooperation, I have learned how important it is to have close cooperation with our neighbouring countries. A pandemic represents a new challenge, different from natural disasters, forest fires and accidents. It has given rise to challenges between countries, but restrictions need to be eased and eliminated as soon as they are sound. Fortunately, the problem is not closed borders; it is a common protection against the spread of infection. Otherwise, we see a more challenging security situation in our neighbourhoods. Nordic cooperation through NORDEFCO has a stabilising effect in Northern Europe. Organisational planning and practice cooperation improves our ability to face crises and conflicts and to work together on peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e259	The Nordic countries are our closest neighbours, friends and partners. We experience that every day. Some believe that the pandemic has weakened Nordic cooperation. I don't share that view. The Nordic countries have chosen different strategies, but throughout the crisis we have had close contact both in the Nordic region and bilaterally, and we have helped each other. There have been over 50 bilateral or Nordic political meetings since March. There has been ongoing contact at the level of office in the vast majority of areas. However, restrictions on entry and other measures for the protection of infectious diseases have created many challenges in the integrated Nordic region. It has affected individuals, and it has affected local environments and businesses. Open borders and free movement are a characteristic of the Nordic region. Before the crisis, we took it for granted that we could travel freely between our countries. We're going back there. But the health of the population will always weigh more heavily. The bands in Nordic cooperation are strong. Between close friends there is room for inequality and exchange, and there is room for learning from each other, so that we stand even better rusted next time the crisis strikes. Today’s report deals with the work of Vision 2030, which the Nordic Prime Ministers adopted in August 2019. The Nordic region will be the most integrated and sustainable region in the world. A green Nordic region should be a precursor region of climate and environment and take part in the green transition in Europe. This objective has not become less important as a result of the pandemic, rather on the contrary. I am pleased that the cooperation ministers agree on an action plan to reach Vision 2030, which will be presented to the Nordic Council next week. From 2021 onwards to 2025, the budget will be rotated to support the vision. This means that some sectors are being reduced — it may be painful, but it is essential for the objectives to be achieved. Let me stress that the vision and action plan are also important for the Nordic way out of the crisis. Here we put the green shift, the competitiveness and the social sustainability in the center. There are also important strategies for our way out of the crisis. We will not be able to achieve our ambitious goals without a well-managed secretariat with order in the accounts. Unfortunately, this has not been the last year, and it is serious. Exceptional measures have proved necessary. Under the direction of the Secretary-General, there is now a full focus on putting in place good practice and cleaning up. I have faith that she will succeed. Implementing Vision 2030 will be the main contribution of Nordic cooperation to the reconstruction of the corona, both in Europe and in the rest of the world. I look forward to working with the Stortinge to build a green, competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e285	I agree with the opinion of the Council of State that the pandemic has not rocked the basic good Nordic cooperation. It's going to last. But at the same time, I think it is important to recognise that the pandemic has also shown obvious weaknesses in the cooperation between the Nordic countries when the crisis strikes. Several important issues are addressed differently in the respective countries. One is the relationship between the authority of the professional community and the determination of what is to be done, and the place of policy at all. What is requested in the parliamentary environment of the Nordic Council is how we will deal with this for the future. It is a discussion we must take in the Council, but it is also a discussion we must take in the Council of Ministers, and together. My reply turns into a question to the Council of State: What reflections does he have on how to deal with future crises – how to build a wall, so that we do not get so much inequality in treatment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e296	My approach is that we can always get better. That means we have to learn from the crisis we have now been through, look at what worked well, and what we could do differently – nationally, and also in the Nordic region. I have had several conversations with my Swedish colleague on these questions. We have a slightly different approach, but precisely the fact that we can discuss the questions, I believe that we can stand stronger in the next round. We have also been able to solve a number of concrete challenges both bilaterally and in the Nordic region along the way, but it is quite clear that we must continue to work on this, both nationally, in the Council of Ministers, and in cooperation with the Council as well. We need to learn from this crisis, but I think it is important to hold on to the fact that a health crisis needs to be handled and managed nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e308	Then the Council of State said exactly this key word, at the end of what he now said, and which I respect, and understand, namely, the authority of the nation state against international cooperation. There are the difficult borderways. But if the Nordic region is to be Europe's foremost integrated region, we need to have higher ambitions about how to deal with crisis situations. That's my opinion. I don't need to blame anyone here, but it's quite obvious that there's a long way to go, because the legislation of the respective countries obviously sets barriers to effective international cooperation. There is no doubt that the Nordic peoples have wondered that there are so different ways of dealing with the same medical challenge. This has something to do with the authority of politics, which we must jointly solve, and therefore I need to take it up in this line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e315	I think that is useful, and I am absolutely convinced that these issues are going to be highly debated also during the Nordic Council's session, and that we are going to discuss it in the years to come. There should be a conference if not for too long, in the Faeroe Islands – it will be a digital conference, I suppose – where we will begin to learn both from national management and from the different approaches that have been in the Nordic countries. Now I'm going to think that there's more equality than differences, but there's been something different approach, and we can subtract experience from that. The reality is that none of us have ever been in the situation we were in – that we had to shut the whole community down and that decisions had to be taken quickly. But now that we've been through this, it's important that we also learn lessons and see how we can be better rusted, both as a nation and in the Nordic community in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e324	I'll follow up this theme a little bit further. It's in times of crisis that we see challenges that we may not have seen or had to spend some time on, because it worked anyway. Now we have experienced for quite a long time closed borders that open and close – back and forth – almost every fourteen days. Of course, the health of the population and everything that comes first – no one disagrees with it – but there are different rules, and it is difficult for people to deal with this when it changes all the time, with quarantine rules and red, green and yellow zones, etc. I wonder how the Council of States will involve the Nordic Council in the job of getting better, clearer and more coordinated legislation for the next time the crisis strikes. I don't think this will be the last time. At least we have to prepare for it being a next time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e329	I fully agree with the latter. If there's something that history has taught us, it's that crises come back, but the crises are rarely exactly the same. But we have to draw lessons from the individual crises we are experiencing. I initially agree that there should be more coordinated rules for border crossings and the criteria set, but at the same time some Nordic countries have chosen to be members of the EU, other countries – two countries – have chosen not to be. The EU also needs to have some common rules for this, so we are in a situation where countries are drawn in a slightly different direction and have chosen a slightly different strategy. My answer to that must be that we must take the decisions nationally, but we must ensure that we have a good dialogue with our Nordic neighbours and see how it can be done better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e336	The EU is there, and Sweden and several other countries are members, while we are not. But I think it would have been possible to have more coordinated and better rules in the Nordic region, with or without the EU. I don't think it matters that much. We have quite a lot of freedom in how we could have coordinated ourselves differently. Of course, there is no question of whether Norway should have the last word and check. That's not the challenge, because we're going to have to. The challenge is the uncertainty that has now arisen among people crossing the border. We've been intertwined in generations in the Nordic countries, and all of a sudden there are completely different rules, which change almost every fourteen days, because where you get a trip and you don't get a trip. It's a challenge for both business and ordinary people who have crossed that line, and who have done it for decades without having to worry about it. The question remains: How will the Council of States actively use the Nordic Council to improve this at the next crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e345	I think the most important answer to that is that these questions need to be discussed in the Nordic Council. We need to have a dialogue on how to get better and what lessons to take. At the same time, when the crisis is there, it has to be handled, and there have been different phases. Now we are in a situation where the infection needs to be managed more locally and regionally, with specific measures in the municipality, city and region. The same is true in other countries. But we have to make sure that there are not so many decision-making levels that it becomes more demanding to deal with the situation. So I want to insist that this needs to be handled nationally, but we need to have good dialogue and see how to get better procedures for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e350	Ida, there's a lot of reasons to take -- that's obvious. But also we who are doing this and discuss it – both in the Stortinget and in the Nordic Council – must have an understanding that we are dealing with everyday life to ordinary people like border commuters, not just to visit family, girlfriends, relatives and friends, but that it is also a pretty big commuting. There are quite a few thousand people moving across the Nordic borders every single day, not to be touristy or busy with other things, but to actually go to work and get their pay. We see that there are also challenges in this respect, with the different rules on how to infect, who should bear the costs associated with this, etc. Does the Council of State think that it should also be part of that discussion — how we are to deal with these aspects of border commuting that are of an important economic nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e357	Clearly, we need to learn from the handling of small and large cases. But let me remind you of the discussion that took place before the summer, where there was a tremendous pressure to open up faster, and that there had to be more opportunities to travel, not only in the Nordic countries, but also in Europe, both for the Norwegians to leave, and for tourists to come to Norway. We chose a restrictive strategy there and chose to be a retard or a brake block in the reopening, but we also followed. The discussion after the summer has revolved around opening too much too quickly. I believe that the handling we have had in Norway so far – I must stress it – shows that the restrictive line we have had, where our starting point has been that this is a health crisis, and that we have to keep the infection down, has been a sensible strategy. It has also helped us to have more economic activity now than some other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e367	The Nordic Council is an important institution. It's a unique cooperation platform for political activities in a region that has about 27 million inhabitants, and together it has more economic power than we think about every day. Looking at the trade between the Nordic countries, it actually brings together our trade with China, India, Russia, Brazil, the United Kingdom, France and the United States. So there's a huge economic force in the Nordic region. We need to have that background picture with us when we're going to look at how we're going to improve and take advantage of the Nordics' advantage even better than what we can do today. I believe that the Nordic Council is working very hard on this, and believe it or not: in the Nordic Council, we can agree on matters, also major issues – 87 parliamentarians from the Nordic countries are able to sit in the same room, come together, discuss matters and agree on them. The Nordic Prime Ministers will also be able to do that. The new vision is very good, I fully support it. It says that the Nordic region will be the most integrated region in the world – nothing less. I'm taking the prime ministers and governments seriously, but I've been a little bit in doubt if governments take their own prime ministers' vision in the same seriousness. In any case, it is felt that the wheels are being pierced. And then I would say, in this case, I might not take the Norwegian government so hard, but it is a fact that we have been working for years to put in place a Council of Ministers for Transport in the Nordic region. It has the selection for growth and development, which I am sitting in, worked hard with. We've participated in many business conferences all over the Nordic region, we've participated in transportation conferences all around the Nordic region. There we get close to business, we listen to what the business community in the Nordic region says, and then it comes: we do something about it. So the Nordic Council has unanimously asked to set up a Transport Council, and we did so in Iceland. It is now at least two years since it was formally adopted unanimously in the Nordic Council. Then it must be possible, without being disrespectful, to ask the governments to get their finger out and get this Council of Ministers in place. There is no reason why it should take two years to agree at government level on a matter which the Nordic Council unanimously supports. I have registered that our Council of State in this has been positive to get to a Council of Ministers. I hope the Council of State comes out in the shoes, is forward, etc. to get this in place. If the council needs help, he just gets to yell out, and then we're going to do ours for it. Iceland's Prime Minister in Stockholm – we had a physical gathering there last – said very clearly that he was very positive to get to a Council of Ministers, so now it should be possible to set that ball in goal, because the ball has been on the penalty mark for a long time. Then I want to briefly back to what was really part of the line change. This corona epidemic has put us to the test in the various Nordic countries, it has put Nordic cooperation to the test. I am not saying that Nordic cooperation has had so much Christmas that we want problems working together. I see that someone is trying to say that, but I think that is completely wrong. It's put us to the test, and we have to work well now to make sure that we can use this crisis for something positive, use this crisis to build an even stronger Nordic. We were at the crossword shift: how can we manage to get even clearer and better common rules and get an even better understanding out there among people because why do we sometimes have to do what we do when the crisis strikes? It is in so far as I call on the Council of State that he is even more committed to such a type of common crisis management solution and understanding how to do so. Then I can end by saying that even in the Nordic context, this is so that the big problems we can do best together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e384	The President would point out that there are probably other terms in parliamentary vocabulary than ‘getting the finger out’ in terms of speeding up political processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e390	As others have mentioned today, Nordic cooperation is more important than ever, cf. The time we're in now, the Nordics have to stand together, help and support each other, so that we get through the covid-19 pandemic without too much loss. The hope is that we will soon receive a vaccine that will protect us. The Nordic countries have a lot in common. We're like a big family. We live quite equal lives and also have quite similar governance structure. It's a united Nordic consensus on what challenges we'll see in the years to come. It is about climate challenges, digitisation, an ageing population, inclusion and an unpredictable international situation. With these common challenges, we have a lot to do with extensive cooperation across the Nordic countries. The Nordic Council of Ministers adopted a new overall vision in 2019: the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region. The vision is supported by three strategic priorities: a green Nordic region, a competitive Nordic region and a socially sustainable Nordic region. These priorities are linked to Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement and the follow-up to the UN's sustainability objectives. The work of the Nordic Council is about following up on the vision, putting things on the agenda, taking initiatives, holding debates, holding conferences, sharing experiences and influencing the vision of each country and following it up in their own national parliaments. The potential for cooperation shall be exploited where it benefits citizens, businesses and administrations. I have the pleasure of leading the work of the Welfare Committee in the Nordic region, and in that sample we have been working to further develop cooperation in the health sector. A competitive Nordic region acts, among other things: making use of Nordic health registers, which are unique in a global context. The research infrastructure in the Nordic region is good, and the population is willing to participate in studies and take on new technologies. The Nordic countries have a total population of approx. 28 million people, a size that makes us attractive to clinical studies. In 2017, the Ministry of Health and Welfare launched a project for better Nordic cooperation in this field. The aim has been to reduce resource use through research ethics, to find solutions to make health data more accessible across countries and to further develop cooperation on clinical studies and personalised medicine. Much is being done in this health sector, both in biomedicine and neighbouring areas such as ICT, service innovation and food. Cooperation in the health sector means a great deal to Norway. The North is our nearest cooperative arena and our springboard towards the rest of the world. A competitive Nordic region is also about equality in the labour market, a theme that is still on the agenda of the Nordic Council. The Nordic Gender Effect Prime Minister's initiative that Work has shown that high employment for men and women has led to economic growth and has contributed to the Nordics being one of the world's strongest economies today. If we are able to include more out-of-work groups, in real employment and also increase the full-time percentage of women, it will further strengthen competitiveness and sustainability. In the priority area of ‘socially sustainable Nordics’, inclusion is the focus. It is important to address the obstacles faced by people with disabilities to work and society in general. Here, in cooperation with the organisations and the people involved, we can share experiences and learn from each other across the Nordic countries. The Bo Könberg report forms the basis for Nordic health cooperation. Less use of antibiotics and the fight against antibiotic resistance has been on the agenda for several years in the Nordic Council and will continue to have a high priority. Here we have a lot to gain from close and close Nordic cooperation, not least by getting this higher on the EU agenda through our Nordic colleagues in the European Parliament. Psychiatric health and suicide prevention are another topic that has a high priority in the Nordic Welfare Forum. We live in the best country in the world, but yet ten people take their lives every day in the Nordic countries. It's an incredibly sad statistic we have to do something about. At our meeting in September, we had a visit by our health minister, Bent Höie, and suicide was the topic. We decided to work for a Nordic action plan with a goal of reducing the number of suicides in the Nordic region by 25 pst. by 2025. The goal in the long term is a zero vision. This is a common Nordic challenge that we need to work together on and take the most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e415	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e420	At a time of considerable uncertainty, such as corona, climate change, decline in international trade, geopolitical tensions, and the testing of legal societies and freedom of the press, the Nordic region is even more important than before. The Nordic countries have a lot in common, but we have also chosen different solutions where we can learn from each other to further develop the welfare community. The Nordic cities have the most ambitious targets for reducing climate change. The North stands for 20 pst. by global maritime services. Transport is one of the major contributors to climate emissions. The Nordic region has the competence and ability to take a leading position in the development of green shipping, and we need to take that position.The Nordic region is the leader of renewable energy and was first out of establishing a single market. Then we see that the EU has set itself clear targets for the transition to the low-carbon society. Here, we also need to be able to achieve closer cooperation on the development of green hydrogen. Denmark is being promoted as one of the countries with clear climate targets, while Finland and Sweden have strong industrial environments with which we should cooperate more closely. Corona has also shown how vulnerable we are to access medicine. We have some cooperation, but here we should also see the possibility of closer cooperation with Sweden and Denmark, which have strong pharmaceutical environments, and look at the possibility of producing medicine, but also research and development of new medicines. All Nordic countries have strong film environments, and the Nordic Council has proposed that we create a Nordic Film Commission to attract even more international film productions. The Nordic region also has good public broadcasters and a varied and free press. We have put forward proposals for joint Nordic efforts in the field of investigative journalism. With brexit, the centre of gravity in Europe is shifted, and the Nordic region has a more important role to play in counter-balancing towards the south and east of Europe. However, the opening of the North-East Passage offers new opportunities in our northern regions, discussing stronger transport corridors between the Churches and Finland and further on to the Baltic and the rest of Europe. The long and good relationships that we learn that Norway and Finland have with Russia also help to reduce the voltage level. But the pandemic threatens the values the Nordic model is based on. We need to stand together internationally against global societal challenges and work together to prevent greater social disparities and weakening equality and inclusion. There's a lot of things going on in the world now, and the Nordics might have to be an even clearer voice in what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e437	We are in a period of strong development in Nordic defence cooperation and growing in importance. Recently, Norway, Sweden and Finland have entered into an intention agreement to strengthen operational planning in particular in the Nordic region. The north is large, but the infrastructure is limited. This is why it is so important to have common access to ports, airports, roads, etc. We see, despite enhanced Nordic cooperation, that Finland and Sweden, as EU Member States, are now strengthening their military cooperation with NATO to the greatest extent possible without being a NATO member. During the Trident Juncture exercise, 13 000 soldiers from the various Nordic countries participated, where it was their own exercise to be able to perform large reinforcements and material over long distances. We see that Finland and Sweden have concluded host country support agreements with NATO, and we see that the same countries have concluded defence agreements with the United Kingdom and the United States. This illustrates that Nordic defence cooperation also has its limitations. It is important that the Nordic region takes increased regional responsibility in defence planning, but it needs to be seen in a NATO context. Two years ago, in fact, the whole of Brigade North participated in the Northern Wind exercise in northern Finland. It's actually the first exercise that the entire Norwegian army has participated in a Nordic exercise. Nordic defence cooperation is important and will become more important. But Nordic defence cooperation is a supplement to NATO and can never replace NATO. But the interesting thing about Nordic defence cooperation is that it spans a very wide range. Among other things, we see: the Nordic countries have entered into so little cooperation, but important cooperation on common uniforms, and Norway is in charge. Summaries: we have a lot to pick up on an enhanced Nordic defence cooperation, but it can never be a substitute for NATO cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e454	Now, the Storting hasn't taken these debates too often, so I have to be allowed to use the occasion and hope we can take it. I had hoped that the Council of State might have taken the floor and said something about it and tried to inform him about the challenges he has had, among other things. in connection with this Transport Council case. I had hoped that he could say something about the stand, where is the matter now – the Council of State name was not on the list of speakers when I went up – now that we have this occasion and this debate about Nordic cooperation, and informed the Storting a little about where this is really going. Because there's no question about it, it's a very central question. I mentioned in my article clear feedback on what the Nordic Council should give priority to. When I have participated with other colleagues from the Nordic Council of Ministers at these trade conferences and the meetings around in particular Norway, Sweden and Denmark, our business community says that communication and transport are one of the most important things. We get the same message from local and regional politicians. They believe that the Nordic Council can play a role in getting these things sorted out, and then they are calling for a line in this, and they are calling for a Transport Council. It would have been very nice. Now I see that the Council of State will use the opportunity to inform the Storting about where this case stands, and what the plugs or plugs may be, where they may be, and whether it is such that the Storting needs to take further action to ensure that this can be implemented as the Nordic Council wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e465	The representative’s wish will then be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e470	Let me first just say that it is not that there is no cooperation today. There is cooperation between the Nordic Ministers for Transport and between the transport authorities. But it is true, as the representative Lauvås says, that there has been a strong wish from the Nordic Council to establish a separate Council of Ministers for Transport. I noticed that the Norwegian delegation has been strongly in favour of it. I have taken it up with our Minister for Transport, and we agree that Norway should go for this. The representative of Lauvås said in an earlier article that I could ask for help, and then I do so. Because if the representative of Lauvås talks with his Swedish colleagues, Swedish social democrats, and the Swedes also agree to this, I have a great hope that it will be implemented. The reality is that this is a topic of almost every meeting of the Ministers of Cooperation, and it is a clear majority for it. But there are some who have not accepted it in their capital, and that means that the representative Lauvås can make a positive contribution here through his conversations with Swedish social democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e479	I want to record the thread from the representative Bente Stein Mathisen's very good posts. She ended with the vision one has put on reducing suicide by 25 pst. in the Nordic region by 2025. This is an incredibly important ambition, which we in Norway too must take the most seriously. What I want to pay particular attention to are our neighbouring countries, especially the islands of Greenland, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. Major changes are being made in the societies they have due to climate change. They simply have to change their daily lives. The resources they have lived off are no longer there, or the climate has become such a big challenge to them that they simply have to change the sources of income and use completely different resources. In areas that are already burdened with health challenges and, unfortunately, too many suicides, this will be a further challenge, in addition to the pandemic we are now in, and its consequences. I just want to draw attention to this. It is important for Norway to reach out a hand here, because we are also on large financial resources. This is a lot about research, but it is also about priority and willingness to see. There is an important piece of work by the representative Stein Mathisen here on behalf of the whole of the Nordic region, and in bringing forward that ambition, and we must follow that up also from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e490	First of all, just a comment on what Mr Elvenes said in his speech: there is no disagreement – or there is a broad consensus – that Nordic defence cooperation should not, of course, stand in the way of NATO membership. They're supposed to complement each other in a good way. There's a consensus between us at this point, I think, but I just wanted to notice it because it seemed a little bit like the Rivers set these two up against each other. I do not think there is any basis for that, and nobody in the Nordic Council believes it. When I ask for the floor now, there is more discussion going on around this transport minister. It's a little difficult to take for people who aren't in this Nordic cooperation for a day, but the thing is that there's been a lot of prestige on this issue, in a lot of ways. That is the reality. Here we have a joint Nordic Parliamentary Assembly, consisting of 87 representatives from all countries, who unanimously decide things, and then it goes a long time before the Council of Ministers is able to implement them. And it is true, as the Council of State said, that in this specific context, it is a matter of one country actually almost vetoing such a system – despite this decision, and despite the fact that the whole of the Swedish delegation has also voted for it. It actually shows the dilemma in the relationship between the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers. That's really why I'm speaking. What I can also refer to as the Norwegian delegation leader is that the Council of Ministers has adopted its vision for the years to come, without convening with the Nordic Council. It's not a good balance, and it's not a reasonable way to do it. I repeat what I have said about understanding that we must have consensus, and that the government and the Council of Ministers represent another part of the Nordic governance, after all, because they represent the government. I get it. But yet that balance is not good in this area. The most classic is the challenges we face with the development of the Council of Ministers' budget. The Helsinki Agreement states that the budget is decided by the Council. But that is not the reality, and there are long, difficult discussions between the leaders of the respective delegations and the Council of Ministers about putting into place what the Council has decided. We are unlikely to be able to cope with the budget that is now under consideration either. That is the fundamental problem we have in the relationship between the Council and the Council of Ministers, which is really a hindrance to the effectiveness of Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e501	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e506	Thanks for the answer, and thank you for the challenge of getting the Swedes with us. With regard to the invitation to speak to my good colleagues from the Swedish Social Democrats, I can only assure the Council of State that it has done so many times, and he will continue to do so until we get this matter in place. That was to the extent that a very good and clear clarification of the state council came along. I appreciate that. I can also assure the Council of State that we – almost said not for once, but it is at least not very often – are standing shoulder to shoulder in this matter, and we are going to get there. We're going to get there, I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e514	With the unifying words, no more have asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e531	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e538	Once again, an overall committee expresses support for the Norwegian defence industry through the examination of the export notification for 2019. The Norwegian defence industry is high-tech, internationally competitive and an integral part of Norwegian defence and security policy. The total value of exports in 2019 of military defence equipment, services, technology and multifunctional goods was below 5.6 billion. kr. Of these, defence-related products amounted to over 4.4 billion. kr, of which A-material, i.e. primarily weapons and ammunition, 3,2 billion. kr, and B-material, i.e. other military equipment, 1,2 billion. kr. Compared to 2018, there was a decrease in the value of A-material exports of 19 pst. and an increase in the value of the export of B-material of 41 pst. In addition, there has been a decrease in the value of sales of multifunctional goods for military use. On the other hand, there has been an increase in exports of defence-related services, repairs, production rights and dissemination. It is essentially Europe that is the recipient of Norwegian-produced defence material. All 93 pst. of the exports of A-material and approximately 88 pst. exports of B-materials go to European countries, NATO countries and Sweden and Finland. Norway has a very strict and open regime for export control, and that is reassuring. It is clear from the notification that in 2019 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected 29 applications for defence-related products and multi-use products for military use. I would like to point out that in 2019 it was decided to stop the processing of new licence applications to Turkey in the light of its military operations in Northern Syria in the autumn of 2019. The consistent practice of strict export legislation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ensures the necessary predictability of further development internationally for the Norwegian defence industry. It also reviews the government’s contribution to international non-proliferation. The dissemination risk associated with intangible technologies and knowledge transfer is high on the agenda for export control, including in Norway. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has started work on clarifying how the control of intangible technology related to knowledge transfer can be strengthened and defined more clearly in the Norwegian Export Control Regulation. The Committee stresses the importance of good and predictable framework conditions for our defence industry. Our security also depends on our being able to produce some defence equipment in Norway. Norway’s particular climate and geography require self-produced equipment adapted to our conditions in several areas. This requires an industrial environment of a certain size. The Norwegian defence industry is mainly niche-based but contributes significantly to allied security and defence capabilities. Norskutwickled solutions are becoming increasingly popular internationally. In addition, exports of defence equipment have major national ring-effects. About 5,000 annual works are employed in high-tech companies across the whole country, and we see new civil uses being opened up through headshots from the defence industry and through technology transfer and knowledge transfer. Summary: An internationally competitive Norwegian defence industry is important for our security, for our business and for value creation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e566	I also say that the defence industry is important for Norway, for the preparedness and for the renewal of our own defence, for important jobs across the country, for export revenue and for the exploitation of the technological development of the defence industry in all other sectors. There's a lot of consensus here in Stortinget. It is also of national strategic importance to maintain the state ownership of the large defence companies in Norway. At the same time, Norway shall have a strict regulatory framework for the export of defence equipment. Weapons shall not be sold to countries where there is war or war or to countries where serious violations of human rights have been detected. This too is a broad consensus. The bloody civil war and the very serious humanitarian situation in Yemen have been the backbone of the most important debate on Norwegian defence exports in recent years. This is where the debate is in the current situation. Saudi Arabia and the Emirates have been militarily involved in the conflict in Yemen since March 2015. I note with some wonder that the right parties in the committee make a point in the opinion that it was the Stoltenberg II government that opened in 2010 for the export of A-materials to the Emirates. It is true, however, that this happened, but five years later, in March 2015, when the Emirates, together with Saudi Arabia, intervened militarily in Yemen, it was the Right that was set with the Government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On 22 January 2016, the first annual Yemen report of the United Nations Panel of Experts on Serious Violations of Humanitarian Law was available. When the situation on the ground changes, regulatory practices also need to change. It has to be obvious, and here we need vigilance and flexibility. However, unfortunately, the Solberg government allowed large arms and ammunition exports to the Emirates both in 2016 and 2017, amounting to a total of 163 million. kr. Technology is developing rapidly. An important development for the export of defence equipment is the question of digital monitoring technology, with the risk that the recipient countries can use this technology to monitor and suppress human rights activists and other opposition activists. In this field, a process is now under way in the EU with the revision of the lists of what can constitute so-called ‘multi-use goods’. From the Workers' Party we expect the government to follow this process closely and provide the necessary updates also in the Norwegian legislation. In the draft State budget for 2021, the Government has not found room for Norwegian participation in the EDF European Defence Fund. Despite long-term and good footwork in the civil and foreign service, Norway has access to participate in this fund as the only non-EU country. So after working hard to get involved, the government has found no reason to do it anyway. I have registered that the Minister of Defence has commented on the decision – without my having become any more wiser from the comments or explanations made by the Minister of Defence. Now, fortunately, I say, we have a foreign minister who knows the defence policy very well. She also has overall responsibility for Norwegian European policy. Yes, in the government's own European strategy, participation in the defence fund is ‘important for Norwegian industry, their subsidiaries and industrial partners in the EU’. Over 40 pst. Norwegian defence exports go to the EU. Important values and workplaces are at stake. I will therefore, in conclusion, challenge the Foreign Minister in his speech to explain why the government does not participate in this important defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e584	Norway has a very strict code for the export of defence equipment. This should also be the case, a strict and predictable regime for such trade is also acceptable to the Norwegian defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry is an important part of Norwegian defence. Industry, in cooperation with Defence, is involved in developing, testing and producing material for its own and allied defence. It is important to ensure this highly skilled industry. The transfer of technology from the defence industry to civil industry — and vice versa — is an important part of innovation in the Norwegian industry. In order for Norwegian industry to compete with other operators, the export legislation must be such as to provide predictability for customers and suppliers. Predictability is not only necessary from an economic point of view. It is important for security policy reasons to have clear, robust and predictable rules for trade in defence equipment. As most of Norwegian defence equipment production is exported, it is essential for industry that the Norwegian legislation does not prevent Norwegian companies from competing with other nations’ industry. Most of the exports are made to countries with which we have cooperation in security policy. The industry in many of our cooperating countries is looking for the same markets as our industry. Harmonisation of legislation is therefore both necessary and sensible in order to ensure effective competition and development in the defence industry. The Norwegian defence industry contributes with jobs throughout the country. Many defence industries are small or medium-sized enterprises, not only the large ones, such as the Kongsberg Group and Nammo. In fact, a number of small businesses in the districts are involved in world-class technology delivery – for example. F-35. So let's make sure that the smart brains around the country can still compete for defence equipment contracts by continuing the guidelines we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e597	In an ideal world, this would be a non-thing – if there were peace and absences of war acts in the world. Unfortunately, the tensions don't seem to be bigger than decreasing. In this picture, the Central Party is in favour of Norway having a national defence industry. It has been said by several why it is important, it is of course about our own defence, important jobs, export revenue, but also about using the defence industry's technology development in the civil sector. At the same time, Norway should have strict legislation, arms should not be sold to countries where war or war threatens – it is also agreed – nor to countries where serious violations of human rights have been detected. There have been some discussions in this Chamber about it, and our reports in 2017 and 2018 have been critical. I feel that it's taken over from the government's side, what we've seen, has been related to Yemen and Turkey. Thus, the centre party has not entered annotations about it in connection with this message. We focus on what happened in 2019. Both in the message and in the listening and recording rounds, it appears that a balance is acceptable today – both to have a strict code and to make sure that there is no violation of human rights or to rent away to the wrong country, and that it is strict enough for those who produce to have self-control over what they sell out of the country. It seems to me that industry is satisfied with strict guidelines, but they are concerned that the guidelines must be far-sighted and long-term. It may take up to 10 years after a contract has been signed, until the product is delivered, which means that a strict but stable framework is necessary for the industry. There is great value creation associated with the defence industry, and it contributes to research and development of technologies that can be used and used civilly. Over the next few years, 15 airports in Norway will have remote control of towers. That technology comes from Kongsberg Defence Systems and is probably the world's most advanced technology, which they deliver in collaboration with Indra Navia AS, a specialist in tower services. There is one example of the fact that, as a society, great progress is being made in the defence industry and in the use of that technology in the civil sector. There are sub-contractors to defense companies in almost every state, my county thinks I'm one of them, or maybe the only one, who doesn't. The production of defence equipment is often decisive for industrial development and local workplaces around the country. The centre part supports continuing the pre-war stringed line. Today’s legislation included: to the end of licences for B-materials and multi-use military goods in Saudi Arabia in 2018 and to the end of the processing of new licence applications to Turkey in 2019. Evidence from Amnesty International shows that European digital surveillance technologies have been involved in the monitoring of human rights fighters in several countries. The report also shows that Swedish companies have sold such technology to China at great risk of technology being used for mass monitoring. The centre party is aware that Norwegian product and technology are not used for mass surveillance and other violations of human rights. This area has not been as focused as traditional exports of defence equipment, but has to be on the right of the agenda. The central party therefore believes that the government has to go through the legislation and submit a proposal for regulatory changes to ensure that such exports do not happen. There is a review of this in the EU, but regardless of what the EU does or does not, we believe that the government has to do this job. The centre party will therefore vote for proposal No. 11, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e616	Nils T. Bjørke had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e621	When we deal with this message, we must guard over two considerations. One is that we should have a viable defence industry in Norway – it is important for the defence of the country, it is important for technological development, and it is about important jobs and export revenues. The second consideration is that the Norwegian defence industry and the export of Norwegian defence technology and Norwegian weapons should not help to give regimes and warring parties we cannot afford, an opportunity to use Norwegian-developed weapons and equipment in their repression and warfare. SV is promoting a number of proposals to strengthen the control of our Norwegian arms exports, and we are asking for a review of whether Norwegian material has been used on the ground in the Yemen war. I have to say that when I see the range of proposals that we stand alone about in the setting, I think it is both surprising and disappointing. Despite the fact that the government and the majority of the population boast that the legislation governing Norwegian exports of defence equipment is very strict and based on a so-called precautionary principle, the experience of the last decade has shown that this is a truth with important modifications. The best example of this is Norwegian exports to authoritarian regimes, dictatorships that have participated in the catastrophic war in Yemen, such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. In September, an expert group set up by the United Nations Human Rights Council published a report on the war in Yemen, expressing very serious concerns that all parties to the conflict are behind serious human rights violations that could remain a war crime. Although the 2019 export notification, which is now being discussed, shows that exports have largely stopped, exports of war equipment to Saudi Arabia and the Emirates continued long after it was clear to everyone what kind of catastrophic nature this war had. Earlier this year, Redd Barna and Changemaker published the report Arm export and the war in Yemen, where they point to a clear and unacceptable risk that Norwegian defence equipment has been used on the ground during the war. Between 2015 and 2018, the report stated that military equipment and multifunctional goods were exported to the Saudi-led coalition for more than 800 million. Norwegian Krone. It rhymes very badly with the so-called precautionary principle. Unfortunately, we record that these kinds of reports seem to make very little impression on the vast majority of parties on the Storing and Government. Last year Norway had to export urgently to Turkey after the country intervened in Kurdish areas in northern Syria. Predictability is discussed, but predictability must also be achieved by being consistent and strict on the precautionary principle. There is no contradiction between this and a strong Norwegian industry. Dictatorships and warring countries cannot be a market to bet on. SV calls for a sample to review the whole of the Norwegian export control regime, and for us to have an analysis of what the exports to the countries that have participated in the war in Yemen have actually led to. The discussion on digital monitoring technology is very important and must become a more central part of the debate on this communication and upcoming messages in the coming years. I very much agree with that. It is essential for Norway to have a strong enough legislation, and for us to agree to have a strong enough regulation regardless of what the EU is up to. There is a strong lobbying press within the EU to allow an export of European technology that can very easily provide dictatorships with good and thorough instruments to monitor and suppress their own population. We have to avoid that Norwegian technology is helping the growing number of dictators in the world in this way. We must ensure that the guidelines we have today, which make it possible to refuse export licences on this basis, are enforced. The question of competence and guidance is strong enough for today. In this way, the Swedish authorities simply propose it and ask the government to strengthen the export control regulation at this point. I would encourage the Workers' Party to vote for it in the same way as the Centre Party has now announced. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the setting and will also notify that the SV's group will vote for it to resolve the proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e638	The representative of the Audun Lighthouse has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e643	Norwegian arms exports must be both predictable and strict and strict. And we're going to realize that there's a lot of people that we don't export to. But it also has to be predictable, because this is an industry that needs predictability and a framework for development. Many – both large and small – companies in Norway are involved in the development of this product, which also provide many important civil products that contribute to the development of our society, just as the representative Navarsete said. We need strict legislation, and it follows the government. We in the left would have liked to tighten something more, cf. the term «authoritarian States», but sometimes a party such as the Left must also admit that our programme formulations are a little bit away from what it is the majority for in this Chamber. But we are very happy to be part of a government that has tightened up, and that has managed to enforce the legislation in a good way, among other things. by cutting the sale of multi-purpose equipment to Saudi Arabia and cutting arms sales to the Emirates and Turkey. It shows that we are ready to enforce the legislation we are set to enforce. We are also ready to make the assessments that need to be made in the course of development. We are also able to do this in a way that is so predictable that it is possible for an industry to develop in terms of both weapons and all the other products produced in the edge zone. We also need legislation that is so tight and predictable for this industry that we do not end up in a situation where not only weapons end up on the roads or in places they are not supposed to be, but also where the reputation of Norway as a nation and the reputation of our arms industry is at stake. It must be little more before the reputation that Norway, as a serious and proper partner, has in this field, can be destroyed. That is why it is important to have a government that is forward-looking, that sees the challenges when they come, and that is able to stop the situations in which Norwegian weapons are absolutely not going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e652	Since 1996, reports on exports of defence equipment have been submitted annually to the Stortinget. It is a very important and useful practice. It is important to ensure transparency of parliamentary control in an area which is important but which at the same time raises important ethical issues. It is a quality sign that the government at all times reports to the Stortinget in this area. The production, sale and use of defence equipment involves major ethical dilemmas. I am pleased that there is agreement that Norway, as a weapon-producing nation, is taking on the seriousness of producing and exporting goods that can take life and lead to suffering. We're going to have the awareness of the moral dilemmas ahead of us in the pancreatic. At the same time, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in this House that the defence industry is important and an integral part of Norway's defence and security policy and business. It is a more important issue than the fact that this industry provides important jobs and significant performance. But without the framework of control and the awareness that the Norwegian arms industry is part of the total defense, the income arguments would have been difficult. It is a fact that the domestic market of our defence industry is limited. Therefore, there is a link between controlled exports and the role of the sector as an integral part of defence and security policy. It is necessary, even in the face of unimaginable scenarios, that we hope not to take place, but that defence policy must take account of the fact that defence equipment is being produced in our own country by an industrial environment, as we fortunately have today. About 93 pst. exports of A-materials, i.e. arms and weapons parts, went to other European countries, NATO countries, in 2019, as well as to Sweden and Finland. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected 29 licence applications in 2019. The military operations of Turkey in north-east Syria led to a halt in the examination of new licence applications to Turkey and to the detention of exports based on licences already granted. It shows that the control regime is working. It is essential that we continue to have and enforce legislation that is strict, predictable and clear. It's part of the constant dilemma that such material can drift away. However, the spread risk also applies to intangible technology and knowledge transfer. It is an important part of the pre-war thinking and must be kept high in awareness both by decision-makers and by industry itself. I am pleased that we are able to achieve the balance between the necessary, the economic and the ethical difficulties. The notification also explains Norway’s participation in international cooperation, such as non-proliferation and export control. As I said, I am pleased that we are still in balance and that the control regime is working. But we must always be on guard against weaknesses and glitches that could jeopardize the balance. Defence and security policy cannot afford political experiments or undue suspicion of the defence industry. We have to recognise the job they're doing, but at the same time they have to recognise that the control has to be strict, so as to prevent weapons and defence equipment being diverted. We have a high level of competence and are responsible for an innovation and technology development that is important also for civil and other business purposes, but it is totally unacceptable from Norwegian legislation that Norwegian-produced weapons have been in Yemen. Military exports to the countries participating in this war have approached zero with a deliberate curtailment, which was also recognised in the hearings on this matter. The guidelines set out concrete requirements for end-user documentation for the export of defence equipment from Norway. If it is the case that Norwegian-produced weapons are still on the wane, this is totally unacceptable. We have to trust that our control mechanisms work, and that such holes get tight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e668	We have heard many fine words today about how responsible Norway is, that Norway is making strict demands, etc. But at one point it's strikingly quiet from the government parties, and it's our allies. When is Norway going to say no to allied NATO countries which repeatedly commit abuses against its own population and fires during wars and conflicts in other countries? In recent years, Turkey has invaded neighboring Syria, sent militiamen to Libya and committed assaults against its own population, not least against the Kurds. Several thousand members of the People's Democratic Party are imprisoned. The measures from the state of emergency have become legal and the rule of law is systematically broken down. In the past, Red has made proposals to stop all arms exports to Turkey on the basis of this, and it is clear from Norway’s guidelines for the export of weapons and defence equipment that it is not to be exported in situations exactly like the one we see in Turkey here and now. Nevertheless, exports continue. Since September, the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan has flared up again, with acts of war, great civilian losses and tens of thousands of people fleeing. There is a great danger that the conflict may become a full war, and here the alarm bells should ring in all parties and politicians who will prevent war and conflict and maintain peace. A number of news agencies report that Turkey supplies Azerbaijan not only with weapons and drones, but also with Syrian soldiers, while Armenia responds with Russian tanks. Earlier this month, I asked the Foreign Minister about Norway to do everything we can to help stop the conflict. The Foreign Minister then replied that there was a restrictive line for arms exports to Turkey. It is well and good, but Norway still exports arms to Turkey. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also concluded in his reply that arms exports dealing with ‘Norwegian security and defence policy interests, as well as forming part of the plans drawn up in NATO, may be assessed in the current situation’. Who we choose to sell weapons to and not, is among the most serious questions that the Stortinget addresses. It's about life and death in the end. Red has previously proposed to stop arms exports to the regimes behind one of the most serious warriors of our time, namely the war in Yemen. We have also asked for answers as to whether the weapons sold to these regimes have ended up in the hands of, among other things. Al Qaida. Red will therefore support the SV's proposal in this case. Norway must do everything in our power to stop the war in Yemen, including the stop of arms exports to countries that might supply arms to the actors in the war. We need to tighten up arms export practices, introduce retail declarations also for NATO countries, and increase transparency of export practices, so that the control of the Storting is strengthened. But that's not enough. Red believes that it is totally unsustainable that when we stand on the brink of full war in Nagorno-Karabakh and Turkey breathes to the fire, the government can assess the export of any weapon or material to Turkey. It's outright irresponsible. We cannot sit quietly in the boat when Turkey contributes to a new humanitarian disaster with tens of thousands of people fleeing. I hope the other parties see that the serious situation in Nagorno-Karabakh makes it absolutely necessary that the Storting put down the foot when the government has not yet done so. And if Libya, Syria and the repression of the Kurds were not enough, the danger of a large-scale war in Armenia and Azerbaijan should definitely be. I therefore bring with it the proposal of Red to stop all exports of arms and armaments to Turkey until the armed conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan has ceased.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e689	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e694	Regional unrest, armed conflicts and economic globalisation are increasingly challenging us, including with regard to the government's objectives of maximum predictability and long-term export control. In the last few years, we have tightened up the practice of countries participating in the Saudi coalition in Yemen. We suspended licences for A-materials to the Emirates in 2017 and at the same time further lowered the threshold to reject B-materials. Norway has never opened up the sale of A-material to Saudi Arabia and has not dealt with new export licences to the country since 2018. This is a pre-war measure, and I would like to emphasise again, as I have done in this room before, that we do not have information that equipment supplied from Norway has been used in Yemen or is derived from other and undesirable uses. In the light of Turkey's military operations in northeastern Syria in the autumn of 2019, we decided to stop the handling of licences to Turkey. Exports on all valid licences were detained in agreement with the companies concerned. I want to pay tribute to the Norwegian defence industry, which shows accountability and cooperates with the authorities to solve serious challenges. We're solving this the same way that previous governments have done. This legislation and these assessments are not static, they depend on a specific situation, and there may be restrictions when necessary. I would also like to stress, as far as the question of Nagorno-Karabakh is concerned, that if, at some point, there were any applications from Turkey for export, we do not have exports to Turkey anymore – we do not deal with these applications. The second is that if an application is to be made, it is important to stress that the assessment criteria of, for example: whether it is appropriate to use equipment to attack another country or to impose territorial requirements, of course will be part of the assessment, as it has always been. Nor does Norway allow exports of defence equipment either to Armenia or to Azerbaijan. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs carried out a review of the few valid licences available to Turkey and assessed them against the 1967 Storting decision. This Decision concludes that the 1959 Stortinget Decision is not aimed at regulating matters relating to Norwegian security and defence interests. This means that licensing cases involving Norwegian security and defence interests and included in plans drawn up by NATO may be considered admissible following an in-depth assessment in accordance with the U.D. guidelines, and the assessment includes, inter alia, the following: the risk of material being used in internal repression, violation of humanitarian law or secondary use in Syria, to mention something. Good digital tools are also needed for good export control. We are now working on setting up a new and upgraded licensing system, E-licensing, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to be able to handle increasingly complex issues and larger amounts of information. We aim to launch the new system in the autumn of 2021. It is also important to stress that a theme highlighted by both the Security Services and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the previous communications and years is the challenges of knowledge transfer and export control. We are now working to clarify the licensing obligation with regard to the transfer of knowledge in the export control regulation, and there is good dialogue with universities, research institutes and relevant agencies. Finally, the question of monitoring technology — a very relevant and relevant question: digital monitoring equipment may be listed and then subject to licensing and control. We regularly update these lists as the various export control regimes internationally include this equipment in their lists. To put it another way: if there is an unacceptable risk of the use of digital surveillance equipment from Norway intended for internal repression purposes, including surveillance, no licence will be granted. I would also like to say that I think it is positive that we are now in a situation where there is an increasing international consensus to integrate these technologies into different export control regimes. The agreements reached are also continuously included in Norwegian product lists and Norwegian export controls, for this is technology that can also be used for, among others. monitoring oppositionals, which is not a development Norway wants to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e718	I heard intensely after in the last part of the Foreign Minister's speeches, because it's almost the most essential thing in this discussion, how we're going to deal with the new technological developments. There is a proposal on the table, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is briefed, and to which the Workers' Party has not yet joined. I would therefore ask in this reply for clarification from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so we get it quite clear to us: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the regulation we now have is satisfactory in order to ensure that this technology is not used contrary to the intentions of the regulations? Or is it necessary to clarify the regulations contained in the SV proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e723	I thank you for that question. Within the so-called Wassenaar cooperation, which is an international cooperation on export control, there is established control of software related to mass surveillance of the Internet, e.g., cryptography equipment, jamming equipment, monitoring of mobile phones, breaking into telecommunications. It is included in the multi-use list of Wassenaar cooperation, and it is included in our lists, so it is covered by this control. So now agreement has also been reached in this cooperation to include monitoring and analysis technologies, which can be used by e.g. security forces and police, which may be used not least for the screening and follow-up of individual individuals based on a search for communication or metadata. As soon as that list is formally revised by the EU, it is also included in our list, and we have, as I said, rejection practices on this type of material that can be used for this type of monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e730	I interpreted it as if the Council of State felt that such clarification was not necessary. I'm thinking about this for a few short minutes and how we're going to deal with that, because that development is going very fast, and we're probably pretty much insecure about how we're going to manage it. There are examples of the fact that the Storting has to make the decisions that are necessary in order for us to have the practice that meets the regulation, so that that matter is slightly pending. I am using the last part of my line on what I am a little bit surprised to not hear the Foreign Minister commenting, namely the participation in this development fund. I ask the Foreign Minister to comment on the reason for this, because it is very surprising that this did not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e737	It was only a matter of time that made me unresponsive to it. I would like to thank the other representative, Mr Kolberg, for their excellent footwork in integrating this as part of our ability to participate through EEA cooperation. It's been important to us. At the same time, we have had to make a priority, including: because the costs of EEA programmes are expected to increase sharply. Now the budgets are not finally adopted, and we do not know what the cost is yet – it is also mentioned in the budget. But the fact that the British are leaving the EU also increases the proportion of those in attendance. Although we have not contributed to the budget for 2021, that does not mean that participation is excluded for future budgets. This is a completely new defence fund, of which Norwegian authorities have a great interest. That is why we have now made an assessment, and we will of course have the opportunity to come back to Norwegian participation, because we consider it positive for the Norwegian defence industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e744	It is good that we have a cross-political ambition that there should be no Norwegian export of digital surveillance equipment to China or other dictatorships that can use that technology to suppress their own population. I am not quite calm about whether we can be absolutely sure that both our legislation and our competence are sufficiently up-to-date. The starting point for this is the report which showed that there have been significant exports from several EU companies, including a Swedish company, of technologies used for mass surveillance in China and also to the repression of the Muslim population in Xinjiang. So the question is, does the government know about Norwegian exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e751	Firstly, I think it is important to be aware that export control is a national issue, and that means that there may be different rules in other related European countries. It is also one of the reasons why we work closely together in this so-called Wassenaar cooperation, which is not the same as EU cooperation, for example. We feel that the discussion that has now come about monitoring equipment is both absolutely necessary and important. That is why we also have strict rules in this area. For example, Norway exports: non-military equipment for China. That would not be a current problem for us. I also think it is important for us, now that we see how development, as the representative of Kolberg, is moving very quickly forward, to have the necessary international cooperation and tools to follow and know what is at any time the new technological development that can challenge this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e758	I take it with me, but given the discussion that is going on in the EU, I think it would be wise for the Storting and the government to review it to make sure that we have both the legislation and the skills we need. To another question. The Foreign Minister repeats what we have heard before, namely that the government does not have information that Norwegian material has been used in the war in Yemen. I trust that, but the question here is really whether the government will try to get such information on the table. There has been a report from Redd Barna and Changemaker that points to a clear risk that this might have happened. And where there is a clear risk, it would be reasonable to go into more detail whether we can be sure that that is not the case. Why won't the government agree to investigate this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e766	I would like to stress, as I have also done in previous debates, that when it comes to those kind of claims, we follow them. We have done so with a report that came last year or years ago – I do not remember it entirely on the stand – where we have both contacted those who have delivered the report, we have used our embassy in the countries concerned, and we have also examined thoroughly through the UN reports that are coming. No information is available on the use of Norwegian material. We're dealing with that. So, of course, we're doing research – it should just be missing! These are serious claims, and we are clearly investigating them. However, the studies that have been carried out, which are thorough, do not provide any information for those who have provided the report, for example. has been able to provide verified evidence of this. That doesn't mean we don't take these statements seriously, we have to do that, and we're going to do that. It is an important and integrated part of Norwegian export control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e771	The cord shift has therefore been completed. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e778	This has been a good and pleasant debate for the Norwegian defence industry. In reality, it has been a tribute to the high-tech industry, which also works well with public institutions and also civil enterprises. That shelf stone I think is mandatory, and I want to take up a very special matter. This concerns Raufoss Industrial Park, after former Raufoss Ammunition factories, which is 125 next year. The industrial park, which already has 2,500 jobs, which has 40 tenants and an innovative environment, would like to try to attract more establishments from both Norwegian enterprises and non-residents applying for a high-tech level. However, they face major problems from the Norwegian and local authorities. They have worked for five years with a spatial management plan, quite detailed, for enlargement, so that when an enterprise from abroad contacts to find out if it is possible to establish a building and an enterprise in the industrial park at Raufoss, they have to react quickly. They have applied for a system where they can, once they have adopted a spatial management plan and if they receive a request, go directly to construction. Then the NVE, the State Road Administration and the Inland County Bureaucrats came and said no. They object to this because they do not then have the opportunity to detail a regulatory plan for this one new building that may be applied for. It takes two to three years, and the foreign or other Norwegian company will not be able to wait that long, because here it is fast in terms of high-tech development. I hope that we can get a system that they have applied for, so that once they have approved the area control plan, and there will be an interested party, they can implement construction handling directly. I hope that the three relevant government councils who are informed about this issue, namely Knut Arild Hareide, who is responsible for Vegvesenet, Iselin Nybø, who is Minister of Industry and is looking for export-oriented jobs that net pay money into the public funds, and Nicolai Astrup, who obviously has to do with the planning system, will be able to solve this, after the tribute given to high-tech companies. And Raufoss is one of the three largest industrial parks in this area, so I hope these three state councils can solve the problem, so we can attract more jobs, which we all agree we're going to need.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e789	The nerves of this discussion relate to the development of weapon technology and digitisation, and in particular to the monitoring digitisation. There is a discussion on a proposal and the question of its decision or not. I listened very carefully to what the Foreign Minister said in the change of line, both with me and others for that matter, and what she said from the pulpit too, and I did not hear any very active resistance to having such a decision. It is necessary on some occasions that the Storting supports the government, and the Secretary of State, in what she says, because she says the same thing as all of us, that here we must be very alert. That is why the Workers' Party will support the SV's proposal on this point when we come to voting later today. It would be very good if the government parties could do that too, so that we are sure that we now get a review of the regulation at this point that ensures the Storting's intention to have good control of this new technological development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e794	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e813	I want to start with a little challenge to the presidency. If the Interpellation Institute is to function optimally, you might want to be a little bit more quick about getting the interpellations when things are up to date. But I think that this topic is still as topical a sail if it's not written so much in the media about it. In many places in the world, we see that human rights are being challenged, and in the shadow of the covid epidemic, we have seen that there have been even greater challenges in many places in the world. China is one of the many areas of concern in this period. It's about treating the minority of uighurs, and it's about Taiwan. It's about monitoring your own citizens, and it's about a virus a creator, and it's about preventing an effective fight against that virus because you're taking control of your own people, and for example. are committed to punishing Taiwan, which does not fall into the fold. We in the Left have many liberal friends in Hong Kong, and when the situation escalated, we got a lot of messages about the worrying developments under the new security laws. I want to start with something like Martin Lee, a member of Liberal International, who has received the Liberal International Freedom Prize, said once I met him in Marrakech at a meeting in Liberal International: "Trine, you have to understand that you're taking to a European and twisting it behind your back, it hurts. Take your hand to an African and twist it behind your back, make it bad. Take your hand to an American and turn it back on your back, it also hurts. But you Europeans have to understand that it's just as bad when an Asian gets his hands twisted behind his back." The whole world said yes to ‘one country, two systems’. When Hong Kong was brought back to China, an agreement was reached between the United Kingdom and China on the possibility of continued democracy in Hong Kong. In the shadow of covid, new security laws were introduced and, on 30 June, it became clear that these security laws were going to go beyond what was the Hong Kong mini-basic law. Usually there were markings in Hong Kong on June 4 to mark the events in the place of heavenly peace, just as one had markings on July 1st, when Hong Kong again became part of China. What we saw under the covid was that both markings were banned. On 1 June, 370 demonstrators were arrested, many of them for violating these security laws. But we have seen that the movement of democracy in Hong Kong was not as easy to die as many thought. When the security laws came, the demonstrators went over from the big banners to demonstrate with blank sheets to show how their freedom of expression was hampered. On August 23, 12 young kings of Hungary were arrested when they tried to escape to Taiwan. They are, according to what I know, still in prison. On August 10th, the media owner Jimmy Lai saw 200 policemen go in and arrest him and also screened the entire media house and confiscated the media house's information and work. His paper, Apple Daily, sold five times more in the following days. That was people's response to the attacks from China. We see it in all small and big things how they protest against the security laws and the inhibitions they give. I'll be allowed to mention a fun. One of the slogans of the demonstrators has been ‘Free Hong Kong, our revolution’, while you can read ads in Apple Daily, for example. for underwear, using the slogan “Free your body, our time underwear”. So seams in commercial advertisements are trying to get people out the slogan on the release of Hong Kong. We've seen kids heading all the way down to their 12-year-olds to buy cartoons for their school assignment have been arrested. It shows the stress and fear that the Chinese authorities put on their people. Now we feel that the sister party members of us are not being asked to vote and are being arrested. It is a frightening development from a country with which we are trying to make agreements, and with which we can wonder whether it is possible to make agreements when we were so ready on ‘one country, two systems’. They obviously don't care about that. It also scares me that the contacts we have in Hong Kong, and our sister party members, are becoming more and more silent. It's rarer and rarer there are messages coming from them, and the messages we get indicate that there are people who are quite startled about the situation they are in, and who feel their security clearly threatened. My question to the Council of State is whether there is anything the government can do to exert pressure to ensure both that we get a Hong Kong that is "two systems, one state" and that the human rights champions who are there can have the opportunity to do their work. I am personally concerned about individuals who are close to us in the party and who are threatened in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e841	The introduction of a new safety law in Hong Kong has received significant and legitimate international attention. On the part of the government, we naturally follow developments in Hong Kong closely. We have addressed the situation in Hong Kong both in international forums and with China directly. I share the concerns of the representative Skei Grande for the new law and, as I have also said in the past, I am very concerned that it can undermine Hong Kong's independent justice system and the rights and legal guarantees of the people. After all, they are, as the representative was in the Chamber, governed by Hong Kong's legislation. Since its reunification with China in 1997, Hong Kong's relationship with mainland China has been based on the so-called one country, the two-system model, with a high degree of autonomy for Hong Kong, its own mini-foundation law, Basic Law, an independent judiciary and a separate legislative assembly. That system — one country, two systems — shall then apply until 2047. This is a model that has served China and Hong Kong well, and the people of Hong Kong have had considerable freedom under this model. The Basic Law of Hong Kong ensures the fundamental rights, as the representative mentions, such as freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and the right to peaceful demonstrations. These rights have been essential to enable the people of Hong Kong to express their democratic commitment in recent years. For several periods, last year at the latest, there were extensive and persistent protests in Hong Kong, and we were also very concerned about the partly violent confrontations between protesters and the police. The concern expressed by the population of Hong Kong through the demonstrations was based on a real concern about the lack of influence over their own situation. We therefore called on the Hong Kong authorities to engage in an open and inclusive dialogue with the inhabitants. Protests and demonstrations are costs that free societies must be willing to bear. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for all other democratic freedoms. Media freedom, protection of journalists and access to reliable information are important not only for each individual but also for the development of society. I share the concern that the new Security Act could weaken the ability of the population to continue to express itself in a free and democratic way. First, several of the criminal provisions in the law are very vague. Furthermore, the new institutions set up by the Beijing Central Authorities to implement and enforce the law could weaken the autonomy of the Hong Kong legal system. Several have pointed out that the local authorities of Hong Kong and its population have not been adequately consulted in the preparation of the law. Any legislation should aim at protecting the interests and safety of citizens, and it is therefore important that the views of the population be reflected when new laws are introduced. Unfortunately, we have seen negative developments in Hong Kong in the last few months, even after the interpellation was promoted. The elections to the Hong Kong Legislative Assembly, to be held in the autumn, are postponed until next year. Several pro-democratic politicians have lost the right to stand for election, and there have also been very few demonstrations in Hong Kong since the Security Act was introduced. Several tone-provoking activists have chosen to shut down their organisations and leave the city. Arrests have already been carried out under the new law. Profiled representatives of the pro-democratic camp in Hong Kong have been hit. In view of these negative developments, it is essential that the international community be clear to the authorities of China and Hong Kong that the freedoms of the Hong Kong population must be respected, in line with human rights and Hong Kong Basic Law. The Safety Act has been met with protests from many countries, including Norway. First of all, we have raised our concerns about the situation in Hong Kong directly with China. Human rights are an integral part of the foreign policy of the government, and it is also an important part of the agenda for our bilateral dialogue with China. During the visit to Norway from China's foreign minister Wang Yi on 27 August this year, Norwegian concern for Hong Kong was raised both by the Prime Minister and myself. We both expressed the importance of respect for Hong Kong's autonomy and the fundamental rights of the Hong Kong population. I also expressed great concern at the postponement of the elections. Also during my previous meeting with Wang Yi, when we met in Madrid before Christmas, we discussed human rights and Hong Kong. The Chinese side is therefore very familiar with our view of the situation in Hong Kong. We have also expressed our concern for development with the EU and European partners. The EU has delivered four opinions on Hong Kong this summer. The opinions have expressed concern for the development of Hong Kong, for the new Security Act, and that it risks undermining one country, two systems model and autonomy to Hong Kong. Norway has adhered to all EU opinions, and we have therefore also shown that we are more united in the emphasising of fundamental freedoms for the people of Hong Kong. But we have also taken up the situation in Hong Kong in the UN. On 6 October of this year, together with 38 other countries in a joint UN intervention in New York on the human rights situation in China, we mentioned both the situation in Hong Kong and Xinjiang. In the joint text, we expressed deep concern about the new Security Act and asked the relevant authorities to guarantee the rights protected under the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Chinese-British Joint Declaration, including freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly. We called on China to maintain Hong Kong's autonomy and respect the independence of Hong Kong's judiciary. Norway has also been associated with joint opinions in the United Nations on several occasions. In the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Norway, together with several other countries, participated in an operation this summer expressing concern for the new Security Act. The opinion stressed that the introduction of such a law without the involvement of the Hong Kong population, legal system and legislative assembly undermines one country, two systems principle. We explicitly asked China to reconsider the implementation of the law. We have also raised our concerns through our own national posts, for example. of the UN Human Rights Council on 25 September. In conversations also externally, with the media and on social media, we have been clear and consistent. Through different channels, Norway also clearly expresses our concern about the situation in Hong Kong. We have communicated that the new Security Act should not be used to restrict the democratic space in Hong Kong, including freedom of expression and media. Let me conclude by saying something overall about our relationship with China. We meet China in many areas, and China also directly affects our interests in many areas. We have had a positive development in cooperation with China, and it has also given us a platform for and an opportunity to deal directly with the Chinese where we disagree. This also applies most to human rights, and this is something that we are actively using. For different starting points and social systems, there can be no obstacle to a constructive exchange of views and experience. For us, human rights are an integral part of foreign policy. That is why it is also an integral part of our relationship with all countries. It is in everyone's interest that the human rights of the people of Hong Kong are respected and that the independent judiciary of the city that guarantees this is preserved. Negative reactions from the world community increase the political cost of restricting human rights. Norway, along with a number of other countries, has been very clear in our calls to the Chinese and Hong Kong authorities for respect for freedoms in line with human rights and Hong Kong's Basic Law. We will continue to maintain the same clarity and, above all, promote the expectation that Hong Kong's autonomy and the fundamental rights of its people will be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e877	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and the clear values that are being presented. I would also like to thank you for choosing to use e.g. visits by foreign ministers to address the situation in Hong Kong. But I have two a little bit of concrete follow-up. One is an assessment I would like to have had by the Minister of Foreign Affairs when we see how a large country like the United Kingdom is making an agreement with China that now they are going to have a system called ‘one country, two systems’ and then you can’t comply with that agreement. How serious is it that a large nation, such as China is international, is unable to comply with international agreements, including agreements with quite large countries? It is scary for a small country like Norway that international agreements are not being respected and that agreements between large countries on peaceful transitions are not being observed. Secondly, I am very pleased that there is strong cooperation with the EU here. It's absolutely crucial, I think, in order to have the impact you're going to have. But now Norway has a special role to play by sitting in the Security Council. That gives us a position and an arena to raise human rights in general, but also in this area in particular. My questions are: what is the assessment when countries fail to comply with agreements at the level here? The second is, how can we use our role in the Security Council to lift human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e888	After all, we have exactly the same expectation of China in complying with international agreements that we have concluded, that we have to any other country. This is also one of the concerns we have about what is now happening in Hong Kong – the fact that this Security Act can undermine the whole principle of one country, two systems, that one can undermine what is both the Hong Kong "basic" law, what is the independent justice system, and what is the own legislative assembly. In principle, there will be nothing left of one country, two systems. It is our clear concern, and it is therefore also our clear expectation that China will respect these fundamental aspects of Hong Kong and also respect the agreement that has been reached. With regard to the Security Council and our work in the Security Council, we are concerned that international law is leading the work we are doing in different areas. We have been very concerned about – especially in the last two years, where we have seen that there has been a very worrying development, both the situation in Xinjiang and now the Hong Kong Security Act – what the representative also mentions: to ally ourselves closely with other neighbouring countries. And – and this I think is an interesting development – it now seems to be more countries, also from geographical regions other than our immediate most related, which join part of these joint opinions and the concern that is. When we joined the post under German leadership on 6 October in the United Nations Third Committee, 39 countries, including Norway, joined it. What's interesting to note is that there's a significant increase from last year's joint entries, where Norway was also involved. Then there were 23 countries supporting this. I would also like to stress that the use of words in this common post we had in October is also strongly accentuated, and that reflects the seriousness of the situation. So for us, it's natural to use all the arenas we have. The fact that we now in the Security Council from 1 January also have the opportunity for the smooth dialogue, not only with the five permanents and the ten chosen, but also with all the other UN countries on these issues, obviously makes us look at what room exists to help improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e901	I do not think it is possible to overestimate the historical significance of the implementation of the safety laws in Hong Kong this summer. It turned out that the Chinese-British 1984 agreement on transfer to China in 1997, which guaranteed China the economic and political system of Hong Kong for 50 years, lasted only 23 years. I do not think there is any doubt that this agreement is now broken. We no longer have one people, one country, two systems, and the guarantee of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and the right to peaceful demonstrations is no longer there. I want to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it is important to continue what she describes: that we must act with the EU, with other democratic countries and work actively within the UN. The role of the UN Security Council will also be important. It is important to have a united world opinion against what is now happening in Hong Kong. There is no doubt that the national security laws provide the rebel police in Hong Kong with all the powers to put an end to the opposition, and all visible opposition is now banned. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, there is a security law that has both far-reaching and vague wordings that give a completely open room for action. The laws do not distinguish between foreigners and local people, so what is said abroad can also be used against you in Hong Kong. It is both for the people of Hong Kong and for all of us. Then it's our relationship with China. Looking back, it's clear that the belief that economic growth would lead to more transparency is little sign of today. The Communist dictatorship has been preserved. It's also shown the situation in Xinjiang, where maybe more than 1 million uighurs are in concentration camps. There is still oppression in Tibet, and in China there is a social credit system that provides an opportunity to monitor individuals that we have never seen before in history. An aggressive foreign policy is also pursued, whether against India or against Taiwan in the South China Sea. There are many areas where Norway, together with other countries, needs to show its clear position. I think it is important to remember that although today we do not see that it is possible for the people of Hong Kong to demonstrate, there is nothing to suggest that resistance is not as wide and as wide and as comprehensive as that shown throughout 2019 and until the Safety Act was introduced. It's a strong movement. I even believe that there is a strong movement that looks more closely in connection with other movements of democracy in the world, whether it is in Thailand or in Belarus. We must pursue the same policy of transparency, freedom of expression and democratic rights in all these areas. In the end, when we look at both what's happening in Hong Kong, what's happening to the Uighurs in Tibet, and to the Chinese population with social credit systems, and otherwise, I think it's right to observe that the Communist Party in the Soviet Union crashed for 74 years. The Communist Party in China is now within its 72nd year. It is important to reflect on whether this Security Act and what is happening elsewhere in China is evidence of strength, or whether there is evidence of a greater vulnerability due to the lack of legitimacy of its own population.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e916	I want to dwell a little bit on what the representative Elvesuen brought up last in his speech, that there is a regime that must be very pressured when they have to exercise power that way over their own people, a regime that stands for an ideology that has lost most of the other places in the world, and that certainly now sees how they are being challenged. It's interesting how they're being challenged not only on the human rights side, but also on the climate side, where the popular uprising that one doesn't take care of nature around him is also about to be involved in undermining the legitimacy of the regime. I am also a little sorry that no more people have participated. This is something that people were very engaged in for a while back. I wish that engagement had stayed a little over time. It's sad that it's only the Left who sees this as an important debate to address now. And, as I said, I think maybe the presidency has to discuss how long one has to wait for interpellations in relation to the topicality of the issues, which undermines a little bit of that kind of debate as this might be. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had the answers she had to my challenges regarding the use of the Security Council. We should make sure to use the position we have now in the Security Council to raise the rights systems of the individuals on this globe, but also to keep agreements between countries. Having an international legal order that keeps agreements and an international legal system that respects the human rights that, despite all the UN was established as a basis, is quite important for a country like Norway. But we also see that we are being dominated by large countries because we do not have the great alliances, and therefore it is important to seek cooperation with the type of EU in order to show how democratic countries must stand together for the rights that we want to uphold internationally. But we're not going to let things like what's happening in Hong Kong go by without commitment. It's very dangerous. It is very dangerous for all the people who are fighting for human rights in Hong Kong, but it is also dangerous for a small country like Norway if it is that big countries should be able to act that way, without respect for individuals, without respect for agreements and without respect for the values at the bottom of our international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e927	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting the interpellant – or really her commodity, who travelled the interpellant earlier, in June. At the same time, I would like to underline a point that Trine Skei Grande has at the end, and that is related to the question of power and justice. This is one of the main reasons Norway has sought the responsibility of sitting in the Security Council for a two-year period, namely that we have to do everything we can as a small country to maintain a rule-based international order. If we get into a situation where large countries or alliances of countries should be able to let power go in front of us, it not only affects us, it also affects every other country in the world to a greater or lesser extent and at different times. That's exactly why it's so important to both stand up for that system, stand up for clear values, and also clearly explain to countries what we agree on, and what we disagree about. That's why I want to end by saying that I don't experience in any way that Norway is being ruled by because we don't have alliances. On the contrary, we have a lot of alliances, we join alliances, and we actively seek to form alliances. The whole history of Norway has shown that it is our ability to create and nurture alliances that give us our space for foreign policy action. When we experienced discussions about our candidacy to the Security Council, we were very aware that some countries did not vote in Norway, because we disagree with some countries in their handling of, among other things. fundamental human rights. It's okay for us, but our position is clear, it's been all the way. For us, there was never any doubt that it was enough for a good number of countries that were not going to want Norway into the Security Council, simply because we have a clear line on human rights issues. That line is known to everyone, so those who agreed on that line would vote for us, those who disagreed, wouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e936	The debate on substance is then closed. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e954	Norway is a small nation in the big world. But despite that, in the years following the war there has been a great deal of agreement on foreign policy and what we want is to be Norway's position internationally. As I see it, Norway has three advantages: it is about human rights, democracy and peace building and equality. Some would argue that we boast too much of our reputation, and that we're not as good as we want it to be. I can agree with parts of the criticism. First of all, our advantage must not be used as a kind of imperialist manifesto, where we act as moral guardians and better-wissers in a world that does not see itself as we do. Secondly, we have challenges with regard to human rights in Norway too. This can be confirmed by reports from the Civil Ombudsman and the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, for example: In terms of how we, as a state, isolate our prisoners, we have been judged against the practice of Norwegian child protection in the EMD, and we have met with strong criticism of not protecting the indigenous population well enough, for example. in the case of violence and abuse against women, despite the fact that there was one of the government's priority objectives in the Report. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Thirdly, we must not make mistakes, not lead to the short conclusion that it is therefore not necessary to work hard on human rights. On the contrary, having challenges must lead to intensifying work and being a clear country, with a clear government with clear visions and goals. Although we as a nation should move humbly, we must nevertheless be very clear in promoting our policies. We're going to have great visions and goals on behalf of human rights. The world and humans need more lighthouses. The fundamental belief that every human being has an intrinsic value that man, regardless of belief, ethnicity, sex or other relationships, obligates us as a state to protect the inhabitants from violations of these obligations. In recent years, this has become more important than ever. The government should speak out with disapproval of the need for international cooperation and fight for human rights. Unfortunately, we see that our voice may not be as strong as before. It doesn't just happen in Norway. The connection to human rights has had many opponents. An increasing number of political ideologies are looking inwards and are trying to reverse the understanding and content of human rights, so that thinking about their own people and their own country is first of all the most important. Tuning down international commitments becomes a taboo. For some, it is also important to weaken equality and women's rights as well as the rights of homosexuals. This is an emerging political ideology on the extreme right, which is closely connected with ultra-conservative religious currents. Women’s right to safe abortion is also threatened in EU countries, and some countries make it a criminal offence to be gay. We see ideological killings in European countries on Muslims, Jews and politicians who are immigration friendly. In the United States, we see an increasing tendency to enforce the death penalty, and the civil society's right to speak and gather in several countries, for example. in Belarus and China, which was the subject of the previous interpellation. The Nordic Resistance Movement is active in Norway, with Nazism in several cities and an ideology that divides humanity into value depending on ethnicity. Human rights institutions such as Amnesty International, the Helsinki Committee, Human Rights Watch, Freedom House and many others are important for countries and populations to be informed of breaches and critical circumstances. Fortunately, the government's proposal to cut the political mandate of Norwegian civil organisations was not adopted in Stortinget a few years ago. The political work of these and similar organisations is essential for the control and detection of policies that do not comply with our national and international obligations. I look forward to hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs' general assessment of the situation and the role of Norway in this work, as she considers it. There are usually two main reasons for human rights violations. The first one is about power. Leaders or persons in position who want to retain power break them with one purpose: to retain power. The second is about attitudes and faith. Faith in ideology, a religion, or a political direction can mean putting the dignity and humanity of some groups over others. Thus, it becomes legitimate not to grant fundamental rights to these groups. Unfortunately, we have examples of that from our own country, where a man meant to be in his full right when he shot and killed young AUFs and people in the government apparatus. We saw it last in France a few days ago, with the beheading of a person who had violated Muhammad. We've also seen it happen to a mosque in Norway. There are three of the very many examples. I expect the Minister of Foreign Affairs to also address the global situation in the field of terrorism, because it is closely linked to human rights. The government has registered. St. 10 for 2014-2015 self-priority areas for human rights work: individual freedom and self-determination, rule of law and legal certainty as well as equivalency and equal opportunities are the three main areas of our international work. Children, women and sexual minorities are among the priority groups. The Children’s Convention has joined Norway, but it is still under way in Norway. The situation in the world today makes the children pay the very highest price. Many children grow up in flight, with a daily life filled with war, terror and violence. A generation is about to lose. They are not granted their rights to either food, necessary health care, family life, education or security. The world's country does not protect its children, as it is today. The objectives of the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women are long overdue. Violence and abuse, economic inequality, coercion and sexual mutilation are all-round and global abuses that take place daily. Women’s right to health care in terms of reproductive health and abortion is restricted. In particular, it is worrying that several countries, including Norway, share in restricting women's rights to abortion. It's a dramatic setback for women's rights related to their own sexuality. We see that such political trends are supported both by ultra-conservative religious environments and by extreme right-ideological groupings. Freedom and rights of homosexuals and persons with a different sexual orientation are threatened in many countries, including Europe. Crime, killing, harassment, loss of the right to work and social participation are the reality of many today. The government aims to maintain consistent and long-term efforts for the protection of LHBTI individuals, ensure their fundamental rights and jobs for the universal decriminalisation of homosexuality and against discrimination in law and practice. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs say anything about how the government works in these three areas of the entire government's policy, and also whether Norwegian policy is permeated by it? Although it is not part of the foreign minister's responsibility, I believe it is quite well established in our national policy, but it may be that the foreign minister sees some challenges related to his own country as well. In Report. St. 27 for 2018-2019 points to important institutions to promote human rights work. One of them is the OSCE. The organisation has not, for some time, had a Secretary-General, Director of the ODIHR, Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, representative of media freedom or High Commissioner for National Minorities. The Council of Ministers did not agree on who would lead these important areas. It's worrying, so it would be nice if the Secretary of State explained a little bit about how to work to get this in place, and how the situation is now. Finally, fighting to improve the human rights situation in the world is about individuals. It's individuals, it's people who live every day in fear, insecurity, pain and without protection. Many organisations and institutions work directly with the people we talk about, where they live or stay. The voluntary and civil engagement is great and important. Many of these people are at great risk. We must strengthen the voluntary part of our civil society. First of all, it's good prevention, but it's also invaluable help for people in the greatest need. We need international cooperation – more and not less. We should not forget that for many children, women, homosexuals and others persecuted in the world, the efforts of international organizations are precisely what determines whether they live or die.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e996	I shared the concern of the representative Henriksen when the interpellation was promoted, and unfortunately I have not become less concerned after that. We have now seen several examples of leaders with authoritarian intentions abusing the situation around covid-19 to strengthen their own power. We've seen it go at the expense of power distribution and rule of law, and the situation is used in many places to crush both MR defenders, opposition and journalists. There are, of course, state of emergency, port bans and wide-ranging mandate laws. In many cases, part of this is necessary to deal with the pandemic, but in many contexts, they also go much further than what is really the basis for, and we see in particular that freedom of expression and the right to information are severely affected. Active use of disinformation, including from state actors, contributes to discriminatory attitudes and hateful expressions against groups such as: religious minorities, LHBTI persons or migrants. Its information is itself a human rights violation. Freedom of expression and access to credible information are also essential in order for each individual to manage a crisis in the best possible way. Women's rights are also particularly vulnerable under the pandemic. These measures have in many places led to a dramatic increase in violence against women and also an increase in sexual and gender-based violence in crisis and conflict situations. They have weakened access to sexual and reproductive health services. The rights of children are also disproportionately affected. We know that economic decline increases the likelihood of both child labour and child marriage. The risk of violence and abuse increases when victims are confined in their own homes. The pandemic we're in the middle of, greatly reinforces many of the negative trends we've witnessed in recent years, even long before the pandemic broke in. International IDEA has pointed to a gradual weakening of the mechanisms of control and power and the restriction of civil rights and freedoms during the last decade. It also happens in Europe. Some political leaders have taken advantage of their majority position to take decisions that violate international obligations. Off-the-shelf criticism. Criticism from within is defeated. Unfortunately, restrictions on protest movements and restrictions on freedom of expression and freedom of assembly have increased to an extent. We see the same trend in multilateral forums. Strong forces, often the same as I mentioned above, work to weaken the international framework and undermine fundamental principles, such as the universality of human rights. We are not least experiencing a setback against women's sexual and reproductive rights and the right to rule over their own bodies. Fortunately, the human rights situation does not evolve in the wrong direction in absolute all areas. Economic growth has improved social and economic rights in many countries. Girls take more education. Some countries have made significant improvements in family law. Sudan has, for example: introduced a law against genital mutilation. More allow marriage between two of the same sexes. More and more countries are introducing moratorium or abolishing the death penalty, e.g. Chad. Saudi Arabia has decided to abolish the death penalty for minors, and that is a step in the right direction. Human rights are a fully integrated part of Norwegian foreign policy, and it has a high priority. The realization of human rights is at the root of everything we do, both globally, regionally and bilaterally. In recent years, however, we have spent much more time than I think some of us want – and at least I prepared – to defend rights that are now under attack. What we had hoped to do was break new ground and introduce more rights. Norway has a very active and visible profile in the resolution work of the UN General Assembly and the Human Rights Council. We are directing the work on resolutions on human rights defenders, on human rights and business and on internally displaced persons. We build broad alliances to prevent setbacks. In the autumn we negotiated with Uruguay, Switzerland and Sierra Leone a resolution on the role of the Human Rights Council in preventing human rights violations. The resolution points, inter alia, to: on the need for capacity building in different countries and on the possibilities of early warning the High Commissioner of violations of human rights. It also calls for better coordination between the human rights player and the other two pillars of the UN, development and peace and security. One of the reasons for this need for coordination is that we see that serious human rights violations can often be an early sign that a conflict is in progress. Therefore, it will also be important for Norway, when we now enter the Security Council on 1 January, that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights regularly informs the Security Council. The negotiations on the resolution were tough and long, and unfortunately there was no chance of consensus. But the resolution was adopted by 32 votes in favour and only 3 against. Conservative forces and geopolitics play an increasingly important role in the Human Rights Council. Russia for the first time promoted negative amendments to the resolution on children's rights, such as: would limit the right of children to be heard. All the proposals were defeated. China promoted a resolution that redefined human rights from individual rights to the population as such. The resolution was withdrawn in the last few years due to a lack of support, but we must expect more initiatives of this kind in the future. The UN Human Rights Council is an important platform for focusing on human rights violations in individual countries, and we are making very active use of that opportunity. In the last year, we have, among other things, taken up the situation in Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, China, Myanmar, Nicaragua, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Turkmenistan, Turkey and Uganda. We're using the periodic land hearings very actively. In November, Belarus will be consulted. It's been five years. You could say that the pandemic has created an opportunity room like this, in the sense that the hearing was actually supposed to be in ours, but is coming now. I think that's going to be important. Much of the human rights work is done at regional level. In Europe, the most extensive and powerful human rights systems we have are linked to organisations such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the EU. It is because it obliges Member States to respect binding standards on human rights, the rule of law and democracy. The representative Henriksen is naturally, naturally, concerned with the OSCE and, in my opinion, does a very solid work as a parliamentarian in the OSCE. We have also had earlier dialogue on the occupation of vacant posts. What we now know is that the recruitment process is now going on for real, and decisions need to be made by consensus. Several qualified applicants have been admitted. But I just want to say briefly in this round that from the Norwegian side we have been very clear that we do not want to be part of a game where the countries that least of all want, for example. The media freedom representative and human rights on the agenda may be allowed to decide that candidates who do not wish to follow it will be elected into those positions, while we do not agree on other candidates. That's why we've been very clear about this, and we've had good discussions about this in the past. We also actively contribute through the EEA funds. This is well known to the representative, but I just want to say in this context that we have also been very clear to Poland that municipalities and counties that declare themselves as LHBTI-ideology-free zones cannot receive support through the EEA funds. This does not apply to civil society funds; it applies to all funds. Civil society in these municipalities, on the other hand, will continue to be supported, because it is needed. But, in our opinion, that kind of declaration does not belong anywhere in Europe or anywhere else in the world. For the sake of thought, you can try to replace ‘LHBTI’ with another word, such as ‘LHBTI’. «Jewish», and then you can imagine how wrong it would be. Just as wrong is doing it with LHBTI people. We are one of the greatest contributors, the second largest, to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. That is something we have done through a multi-annual agreement, because we believe that this instrument in the UN is crucial. We have spent a lot of money and will continue to spend a lot of money on priority areas, such as MR defenders, such as freedom of expression, freedom of belief and life, cultural rights, democracy and the rule of law and sexual minorities, to mention something. But I'm afraid the interpellation of the representative Henriksen may be the same in six months or a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1036	Yeah, I'm sorry, too. It may not be an improvement in half a year, but that's exactly why I think it's so important to have an open debate and an open dialogue on the challenges you're facing. Some of what strikes me, both internationally and nationally, is that when such trends start, they feel very innocent. When Russia writes in its proposals to change text that they should be based on traditional family values — yes, who can be against it? I don't think there's one person around the world who doesn't think it's good with family values. But when you understand the context and context of both how these resolutions are made and why they are promoted, that's when it's getting a little serious. I think some of what we need more is debates like this, where one gets up and increases the people's understanding that there's something behind these slightly subtle concepts that many of these countries use. I believe that in our own country, too, we see clearly how this is happening. The Nordic resistance movement has, among other things: on their websites that the white race is threatened, and then they have examples of why, some people actually believe in. It is quite serious that there is so little debate about that kind of emergence of ideologies that will kill democracy. I am very pleased that the Council of State also points to this with hope. Some of what I think is the most important Norway can give by being foremost is that we can give hope to other countries in the world. That is why I also believe that we should intensify nationally, for example. equal opportunities work. We should be even tougher because there's someone out there who needs us to go first. That's what Norway can do. We have the resources, we have opportunities, and we have a civilization that can contribute to it. I also want to pay tribute to the way Norway has behaved towards Poland, which was on TV yesterday, and which has been important. In the case of covid-19 and pandemics – it spins around that there are more and more restrictions – such situations arise at regular intervals in the world. It's not new either that there's a crisis coming. Before the war, we had an economic crisis. Now we're in a contagion crisis. That's why we have to have the structures in place when there's peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1049	It is important to stress, as the representative Henriksen also does, that this is a work in which we really switch between hope and despair. After all, we want the universal standards – the norm work on which the whole UN system and the universal system of human rights are based – to be strong and viable in the future as well. But I think we have to admit that today we are facing a different challenge to that system than we have done before. That's partly because the limits of what's acceptable are moving. Unfortunately, it has a lower political cost for authoritarian leaders today to undermine the rights of their own people. It's also because they find allies in many places. Where, in the past, there was a deep problem with some of the attitudes we see authoritarian leaders in many countries taking in different parts of the world, where it could lead to less cooperation and at least not to re-election, we now unfortunately see the opposite – that it becomes a kind of political capital that helps to strengthen the upsurge of an authoritarian leader. I think, for example: It's very special to see and hear the Polish President in the election campaign this summer to say that homophilis is a greater threat than communism. And it may be particularly bad to hear it in a country like Poland. We have a lot of our operational human rights work through partner organisations receiving grants from the Ministry. By 2020, we have a human rights allocation of 825 million. kr, and I would say that we get very well operational human rights work for it – on very many different fronts. Included in this is the multi-annual agreement we have with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and I just want to say that we are looking with great concern at the budget cuts that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights is now facing. It is likely that the requirement will be reduced by at least 10 pst. in the current year. When we also know that the human rights player of the three pillars of the United Nations system has only 3.7 pst. of the total funding, we also see how important it is that countries such as Norway continue to support the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. In addition to these funds, we have human rights work through many other budget lines. I think it is also important to stress the investment we make in women's rights and sexual and reproductive health and rights in the period 2020-2025. So we're going to have to invest approximately 10.4 billion. kr. It is a crucial effort for Norway because this is an area that is under constant pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1062	There was a good conversation between interpellant and foreign minister, and had the president not presided over, the president would participate. The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1082	November 9, 1938, was a cruel day. In 2018, at the 80th anniversary of the Crystal Night, the Archives wanted the Peace and Human Rights Centre to invite a Jew from Kristiansand to tell us about his experience. They asked for no. They did not want to stand up, for fear of how they would be met in public. This story is not unique in today’s Norway. Many Jews are insecure, not just in Norway, but in many places in the world. It also applies to Muslims, homosexuals and other groups. Nazi ideology exists among us today. I don't want to exaggerate the number, agreement or give them more attention than they deserve, but their opinions should be discussed. On July 7, 2017, we experienced that nynazists were escorted by the police through Kristiansand's main street, the Markes. There was fear, and people expressed that they felt it hateful and frightening. There was due and reasonable criticism of the police procedure. In Prideparaden the same year, the new Nazis were very active in filming participants. They filmed several places along the route, and this triggered severe reactions and fears. Reactions also occurred after the trial of the Lawyers in June of this year, where the freed up three neo-Nazis who had been convicted by the District Court. Their provocation was to lift a Nazi flag outside the Archives, which in its time served as Gestapo's headquarters in the South, one of many headquarters for the realization of Nazi ideology and a place where the mapping, imprisonment and torture of resistance were the main task. The flag was accompanied by a banner bearing the inscription "We're back!". People experienced the act as hateful and threatening. During Yom Kippur recently several Nynazists stood outside the synagogue in Oslo with anti-Jewish messages and knives – a new threatening provocation that created fear. The AUF and the Workers' Party, together with Muslims in Norway and the world, have paid a high price for the hateful ideology of others. Yeah, there's a hairy boundary between hatideology and actions. It is not illegal to hate, nor is it illegal to believe in ideologies that exclude people because of traits or ethnicity. But it's scary when faith is turned into action. Because, as I said, the limit is fine hair. When the Kristiansand District Court dealt with the review against the three members of the Nordic Resistance as the hoisted flag, they wrote what was quoted in the interpellation, so I'm not repeating it. But it ends by saying that what the accused have done here cannot be protected by freedom of expression and is undoubtedly not necessary in a democratic society. The law assessed the context, the location of the act was essential. The appeal led to acquittal in Agder law, who rejected the fact that the action was punishable, and the state attorney chose not to follow up the case. My position is that we are not worthy of what must be seen as a vague legal opinion in this area. I am concerned that it is mobilizing forces that in its ideology and action will undermine democracy. I have noticed that on 5 August the Minister of Justice and Security expressed in a reply to the representative Norunn Tveiten Benestad that it is sometimes ‘difficult to decide whether a specific opinion falls within one or the other group’ – that is, whether opinions are linked to a political or ideological question, or whether they are attacking persons or groups subject to criminal law. I agree that here are the difficult assessments, but I also agree more with the case law than with the law. For the Nazi environment in Norway is not alone. Extreme and extreme environments are among Europe's and Norway's greatest threats. The environment deserves political and democratic opposition, and at the same time the individual people and the environments exposed to hatred and hatred deserve our commitment. We must discuss: how should we balance the need to protect groups that promote an ideology that undermines democracy and the human rights we have committed ourselves to? I want to fight for democracy and freedom of expression, but I do not want freedom of expression to become a kind of suicide contract for a living democracy. Such tolerance, in my view, undermines the very basic idea of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. The individual human being and the value and dignity of man must be protected. The connection to human rights came after the cruel experience of realized Naziideology. From time to time, it is worrying that provocations take place slowly, and the signs may be difficult to see. Our former staging president Jo Benkow has described his everyday life in the book The Eleventh Commandment. There he tells of hate letters from people who hate Jews, and people who said they were not racists, but – as he said – they would just say that I should neither be a prime minister nor a party president, and should understand that such things can create anti-semitism, etc. Benkow's friends said, "Don't worry about it. He said he would hardly ever stop getting close to it. Antisemitism is not just contagious; it's part of the cultural heritage," said Jo Benkow. Hat crime is increasing dramatically, showing the figures the Minister of Justice has stated on my question about this. Developments challenge society as a whole and affect, in particular, the growing environment of children and young people. Too many people are sad to feel that they are not stretching, not good enough, or in the wrong place. I believe that more or less binding action plans and fine words in speeches and texts are needed to reverse this trend. The relationship between words and deeds must appear. First of all, government needs to be clear, extremely clear and consistent in its message – and as the most important role model for its people. It hasn't always been. The laws must be clear, and they must be followed up by political action, such as sufficient resources to investigate this type of crime. Freedom of expression stands and must be strong in our democratic Norway. This means that both gods and their followers have to endure their most important religious writings being ridiculed as well as broken in line. The question of whether such actions are wise and in line with an unenforced responsibility for expression is both right and natural. This is also part of a debate on freedom of speech. In the public debate, are we going to narrow these dilemmas to be just a question of freedom of expression and a legal delimitation of it or not? In both public and online conversations, more decent adults and a debate on where to go are needed, so that the state can discharge its obligation, which the Declaration of Human Rights imposes on it, namely to ensure its citizens dignity as human beings. There are rules that allow schools to move children as bullies, from school they go to. It is a very serious intervention in children's rights. But we find something more powerless against some adults and organizations that behave many times worse and much more threatening to individuals and groups in public space and online. I have great respect for the challenges raised by freedom of expression. People should be allowed to provoke. At the same time, it must be allowed to ask the question: Who is to protect freedom of expression, and what? And freedom of expression can hardly be dominated by any other principle. Can you, for example: assess this in contexts other than the freedom of expression framework? According to my knowledge, we have previously considered such provocations and clear hateful markings to a greater extent as a problem of order. Jo Benkow said that antisemitism was contagious and part of the cultural heritage. He expanded the challenges we face to something greater. So we also have to discuss this in a larger context. How does democracy meet forces that will eliminate democracy and the basis for having a democratic state? What kind of instruments should we allow, and how should we set ourselves up so that democracy does not destroy itself? Sees the Council of State need to clarify the law after the contrary conclusions have been reached, and will consider other solutions, such as: to regard such provocations more often as a problem of order, rather than political ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1130	The actions in Kristiansand night until 9 April 2018 shocked and upset many. We are also fortunately very many who take a strong distance from Nazi symbolism and agitation, and I can understand that more people have reacted to the fact that the three men who stood behind the action were freed from the law of the team. However, I do not want to argue that the law should be amended now to ensure that those who have to carry out similar actions in the future are penalised. The Criminal Act § 185 already contains a ban on discriminatory or hateful statements. It is expressly stated in the law that the use of symbols is also to be regarded as an expression. There is no doubt that the use of crosshairs will often be contrary to the law. The assumption is that the use threatens or mocks someone or promotes hatred, persecution or contempt for some because of specified characteristics, such as skin colour, national or ethnic origin, religion or outlook on life. I think this is a reasonable rule. Criminalising statements that do not comply with the terms of Section 185 of the Criminal Code is problematic for reasons of freedom of expression. This applies whether the statements are verbal or consist of symbol use. Because freedom of expression is a pillar of a democratic society, there are good reasons for allowing opponents to express their political and ideological positions, as long as the opinions do not attack individuals or groups. When cross-checks are used in actions or other contexts, it is for the prosecutors and courts to assess whether the use of symbols is to be seen as a hateful statement directed at someone because of such specificities as I have just mentioned. It is important for the prosecution authority to ensure that relevant cases are brought before the courts, thereby contributing to legal clearance. In the strategy against hateful statements, the government has stated that we want to ensure that the investigation of hateful statements and other hate crime is prioritised in all the police districts of the country. This is reflected in the Riksadvokat's annual circular with objectives and priorities for the State Attorneys' Office and the police districts. The Courts of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office shall both have an independent office. The principle of a free and independent prosecution authority is a central rule of law. In Norway, the principle is recently regulated by the Criminal Procedures Act. The amendment makes it clear that the decisions of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in individual cases should not be affected by the Government. For this reason, I do not want to comment on the decision of the State Attorney not to appeal the judgment, but generally it is a political desire to report hateful statements, to investigate and prosecute them, and to condemn criminal acts. The interpellant calls for a clear legal opinion, and let me therefore mention that in 2020, the Supreme Court has dealt with two issues of hateful opinions. Both matters concerned opinions in closed facebook groups. The emergence of social media has resulted in an explosive expansion of the individual’s ability to speak. The fact that anyone can publish content immediately – without editorial control – has strengthened freedom of expression, but at the same time has created significant challenges related to infringing opinions. The Court has, through the examination of the two cases, contributed to the clarification of justice in a matter of practical importance. Further a case of hateful statements has recently been promoted to treatment in the Supreme Court. The Ministry of Justice and Defence follows closely the case law to examine whether the provision of the criminal law on hateful statements actually works as intended or whether there is a need for regulatory changes. Introducing a criminal sanctioned ban on participation in racist organisations, such as the Nordic Resistance Movement, of which the three activists were members, could show that society is taking a clear distance from racism and religious discrimination. However, a formal ban on racist organisations has been investigated and rejected several times in the past. The new Criminal Council, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, has discussed the need for a criminal order affecting participation in and recruitment to criminal gangs and organisations. The Council proposes a new provision of the Criminal Code, aimed at participation in organised criminal associations which commit serious criminal offences that violate life, health or freedom. The Council points out that such a provision could affect racist organisations that use relatively rough instruments in their racist activities. The proposal is now being consulted, and the ministry will come back to that matter later. In the interpellation, the interpellant states that extreme and extreme environments are one of Europe’s and Norway’s greatest threats. I share the representative's concern for extremism. According to PST, extreme Islamism and right-wing extremism are the biggest terrorist threats in Norway. In its annual threat assessment for 2020, the PST states that the threat from right-wing extremism in Norway developed negatively during 2019 and that the number of persons in Norway expressing support for right-wing extreme terrorism has increased. In an updated threat assessment published in June this year, the PST estimates that an increase in radicalisation to right-wing extremism is likely. In addition, an increase in the number of Nordics is likely to be vulnerable to radicalisation as a result of social and economic challenges in the covid-19 pandemic coolant. The government takes this very seriously. In order to strengthen efforts, the government presented in June a revised action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. A key objective is to capture people at risk of radicalisation as early as possible and to meet them with effective measures. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has the primary responsibility for the national coordination work in this area. The government has, among other things: establish a national guidance and resource function to strengthen the efforts of the service provider towards radicalisation and violent extremism. In addition, the Government has established a national guidance function in the Nav system, providing advice and guidance to all Nav offices and being a point of contact for all services in the field of radicalisation and extremism. This measure has been developed in particular with a background to knowledge of far-right persons in Norway. We know that several of these are good adults and are not related to the labour market. That is why this is an important addition to prevention. Furthermore, all police districts have now established radicalisation contacts that work with, among other things. prevention. They interact well with municipalities and, among other things, with local authorities. religious communities on these issues. The government wants an inclusive democracy that promotes dialogue, freedom of expression and diversity. Racism and religious discrimination are a cause of fear and prevent many from participating in the public conversation and also have a negative effect on other participation in society. Combating racism and discrimination is a priority for the government. We have developed our own strategy against hateful statements, which was presented in 2016. In order to contribute to a renewed and reinforced effort in the fight against racism and discrimination, the government presented in 2019 an action plan against racism and discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and religion. We have also decided to continue and renew the action plan against anti-Semitism and launched a separate action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims in September this year. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the government has set up a commission to monitor the position of freedom of expression in Norway and assess measures to promote an open and informed public conversation. The freedom of expression Commission shall, inter alia: problematize the distinction between infringing statements which are not protected by freedom of expression and those which are protected but which may nevertheless be perceived as problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1168	The Council of State pointed in the introduction of its intervention to one of the core points of this question. That's whether it threatens someone. It is along the path of this debate. It is clear that we have rules and we have legislation, but I think we need to have a debate about who this'some' is and where those boundaries go. I think it's going to be wrong when we say that raising a flag at an institution that was a torture arena for a Nazi regime doesn't threaten anyone. In a chronicle, one named Staalesen asks the question whether it can be because there are so few survivors, there is so little we know. But I can tell the Council of State that those "some" who feel violated by this flag are not few. Many of them are family and descendants of people who have really experienced that kind of ideology on the body. It's in that area of tension, between the two decisions in the District Court and the Lawyers' Court, this whole issue rests. I do not believe that the Council of State actually gave a good answer. Then I want to say that it's right as the Council of State says, that it's given commission and priority objectives and action by the police and through the National Attorney. But if we read the statistics that I've got in the answer from the Council of State, we see that the hate motive of race and ethnicity has increased by 126.6 pst. from 2015 to today – 126,6 p.m. This means that there is a major problem that the action plans we have launched in recent years do not meet, and the conviction rate in these cases is very low, so here I think it is something that is not related. I believe that the government should go through what means you can actually use to minimize the kind of hate strikes and the kind of horrors that live and actually have quite good living conditions in our society. The councils were in on this with networks, and it's a big challenge. We all agree on that. But I just want to repeat what Jo Benkow said, and that's that word infects. That's why it's also a task to actually have political attention on what words we use and how we use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1177	I initially forgot to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter and this question. I'd like to do that now, because I think this is very important. I don't think the interpellant and I disagree very much, neither in fact, in response, nor in an assessment that many will feel an intrusion at this event. Then it is also quite right that the question that the court has assessed is whether someone has been offended. So here, there's a disagreement. The petition came to a yes; the court of law came to a no. When I say that I do not now believe that there is a need for change, it is because I believe that we do not have sufficient basis to believe that the court in general interprets the penal code § 185 in a way that is different from what was suggested by the legislator, i.e. the Stortinget. What I also said, and I also have to be very clear, is that if we were to see that the court interprets the law differently from what I believe this room was very clear, then it would be necessary to make changes. So we're following this development of justice very closely, and I'm very concerned that we're correcting the course if necessary. However, that we have two courts that come to two different views in this matter, I do not believe that there is a need for a change that will also have problematic aspects linked to freedom of expression. This theme is not an easy one. It's hard, it's very difficult. Of course, when the proportion of reports has risen sharply, it's about what platforms we're dealing with now, and how to express ourselves in new ways, but I think it's also about being politically clear that this is a form of crime where you're going to get up the number of reports, the number of cases being investigated, and the number of cases being convicted. This work was initiated through the action plan, it has been reinforced, and new instruments have been developed. This area we'll never end up with. We need to keep up with the methods and developments we see, and policy needs to respond to new challenges in this area – because it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1190	I want to thank Kari Henriksen for raising a very important question. It is hard to hear how Jews, Muslims and other minorities in Norway are facing ever more threats and violence. We saw that in Kristiansand – in the example Kari Henriksen took up as his main theme. We saw that in September – where Nazis marched outside the synagogue in Oslo, and a few days later, one of the same demonstrators was found again outside the synagogue, this time with a knife. These are examples that are hard to hear about, but above all, it's not bad – it's scary. Because we know that hatred and racism are dangerous. It's simply deadly. Because it's hatred and racism that kills. It did this in Oslo almost 20 years ago, when Benjamin Hermansen was killed by nynazists. It happened here in Oslo and on Ut Island, when 77 people, most of them children and young people, were killed because a man wanted to hate. We saw it again last summer, when 17-year-old Johanne was killed, and it was only luck and a hero who made us not get a mass killing of Muslims that day. These examples often make me think: Do we never learn? Why do we keep getting surprised at what kind of attitudes we know are out there? Therefore, the laws must be clear. Clearly, there are questions and dilemmas we face when it comes to discussing the law. I am not a party to the ban on Nazi organizations, but I also completely disagree with the former Minister of Justice Per-Willy Amundsen this week, where he wanted to remove the paragraph of racism in the law. The law is important, but there is so much else that is very important. These include: How the police operate. I think you have to have a lot more knowledge of this in the police department. The report after the killing of 17-year-old Johanne and the terrorist attack on the Al-Noor mosque were frightening reading. It was scary because we had learned so little after what happened on July 22. For what did we see? Well, there had been a warning against the terrorist. The police made several mistakes on the road, and perhaps most seriously, I believe, it was that the alarm did not go to the police office when they were told that there was a young white man who shot in a mosque the day before the id celebration and carried a camera. Afterwards, it was said that they had too little experience and did not know what to do. It shows that the police don't have enough knowledge. There has not been enough attention on this issue. It's important how to work in the police, and it's important how to work with attitudes and words. Because that's right, as Kari Henriksen pointed out several times: everything starts with the word. The word is what only comes when we are to fight hatred and racism. We all have a responsibility for that as individuals, and as politicians we have a special responsibility for that. This is what we have here in Stortinget, and the highest responsibility is for those in government. The Minister of Justice is the one with the highest responsibility for combating racism in Norway. Before Monica Mæland, there were eight ministers in the Ministry of Justice that Erna Solberg had appointed. Of them, we found, among other things, Per-Willy Amundsen, who spoke of a crusade against Islam before being appointed Minister of Justice. He has also talked about removing the child-restraint for immigrants, because you have to keep the Norwegian race. He has said that racism is not a problem in Norway. This is the man Erna Solberg gave the top responsibility for combating racism in Norway. It was Sylvi Listhaug. We all know what happened to her after she spread a hateful conspiracy theory. The majority of the population disposed of her. One thing is that story, but a story that almost hasn't come up is that the PST believed that the Minister of Justice's activity led to a tripling of hate messages – after that facebook post. I wonder what Monica Meland really thinks about what her former government has done, part of them she herself has been with in government. Does she mean that the government has done enough to settle the hatred that kills? I don't mean it. I believe Norway has come very short to make a settlement with that. Every time we talk about the Al-Noor mosque, I get hurt in my stomach. For what was the settlement after the killing of 17-year-old Johanne and the attack on Muslims? Well, it was that we had a pointless debate on hand-hilsing – after Siv Jensen, who was then the finance minister, believed that those who were attacked stood for sneaking up, after the Crown Prince visited them. So it was the message to the rescued Muslims who had experienced the threat of their entire life base. I'm going to admit that I have much bigger expectations for Malta. I hope she is now ready to go in front to make a settlement. I just have to end by saying that an action plan against racism is very good, but that's why I think it was incredibly disappointing that there is also a million-dollar support from Monica Mæland for the Human Rights Service. We read in the budget proposal that she writes that this should contribute to a better knowledge of integration and immigration. Thus, a blog that encourages Muslim harassment in Norway believes that the government contributes to more knowledge of immigration and integration. This doesn't belong anywhere. Someone might react to me talking about these terrorist attacks in a political debate. I'll say I'll do more of that. This is about politics, and we need to discuss these issues more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1222	It thrones a light yellow house on the right when one comes running on the Vestervejbroa from Kristiansand towards Stavanger. There is a history that no southerner can avoid knowing, established as a state archive in 1935, taken over by the Germans when the war came, and from 1942 it became the beginning of a soft chapter in the history of the Archives. Torture, suffering, impunity and fear were to characterize the Archives over the next few years. It's not that often we're so personal in posts here in this room, but today I am. In March 1944 my father, his little brother, and his little sister were at home at the farm in Eiken when Gestapo came and picked up Uncle Pål, who owned the farm they all lived on. They never saw him again. He was led to the Archives for interrogation, like so many other southerners. He was subjected to severe torture with death to follow. This is my family's story. It's not unique. Many southerners have similar stories. The archive was truly the house of horror, a piece of Nazi machinery to carry out an ideology based on racial discrimination, persecution, torture – the eradication of unwanted people and groups. Nearly 20 years ago, the Archives was established as a Peace and Human Rights Centre. Behind the establishment was a group of engaged people with Osmund Faremo in the head. Many had experienced the war and had a personal history related to the Archives. They had a dream. They would make the house with the dark story into a memorial and a learning center for children and young people to prevent history from repeating itself. The cooperation with the humanitarian organizations was part of the idea, and I was part of this establishment myself. The reason why I spend time on this is simply that it is necessary to understand how deep it concerns us when the neo-Nazis are cutting and threatening the work that is going on in the Archives today. Nazi flags at this memorial, threatening banners with the text "We're back!" – in this place, where the Nazis carried out their lies and so many families were destroyed and got permanent but, was deeply offensive, hateful and threatening for everyone associated with the Archives. It was not a general opinion or a statement that Nazism is still alive, but a threat to an environment that stands for true opposition. That is why the unique reference framework for the history of the Archives is so important to understand in this matter. I owe it to make it clear that I have a double role in this matter. I am also the chairman of the Archives Peace and Human Rights Centre today. But both as a politician and as a leader, I find the actions of the new Nazis on this symbolic day, April 9, 2018. In other contexts, for example: in connection with the marking of the Holocaust Day in the Archives, the same neo-Nazi environment has been on the road, and in the South, as elsewhere in the country, Jews today find it difficult to stand up in public contexts. It shouldn't be like that. We want an inclusive society across faith, ethnicity, sexual orientation and political affiliation. But then respect for human dignity must be fundamental. I would like to see the events from 2018 tried for the Supreme Court, as the verdicts in the District Court and the Lawyers' Court had different results. The state attorney himself claims that the decision not to appeal the case to the Supreme Court was taken under doubt. Then I believe, from my point of view, that it would have been right to try the case before the Supreme Court, but that was not the case. But then we need a public debate on how the case law is perceived in the population. We need a debate on what instruments and laws we have at our disposal. My hope is that when we receive the report of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, we will have such a debate in the context of its proceedings. I hope the Council of State will contribute, and I am sure that the representative Henriksen and others who have spoken here today will contribute. We must protect freedom of expression, but we cannot be naive in the name of freedom of expression. Mine and your freedom of speech shall not threaten nor violate the freedom and security of others. So thank the representative Henriksen for taking the initiative for this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1241	I think, or I'm sure, there's a very broad consensus in this room about what challenges we're facing here, and the core of what the interpellant has taken up very cheaply. What made me take the word, as it says, was that of course I have a very strong commitment to this, but I have to say that when I hear that representative Tveiten Benestad now says, I think there's reason to make a little extra marker. I understand very well, and I respect – and I can't believe for my part that the state attorney makes a mistake when he considers it – that the council said she wouldn't comment on the state attorney's decision. I understand that and respect it. Neither do I from the Greatness Chair. But what we have as our task in this room is to be the legislator. You're not in an interpellation. I'm pretty sure I am. But when we hear the case-law shown in connection with this concrete action that is the starting point for this interpellation, it must also awaken us in the Biggest, considering whether the law is the way it should be. That's why I take the floor, to say this. It is obvious that there is room for doubt that I for my part allow myself to say that I have difficulty in understanding should be there. That's not the intention of the law, as we've seen here. Now the Council of State is saying very commendably that the department and all the other good forces are following this very closely, and it is clear that it is in itself good, and I trust that they do. However, through this interpellation and the attention which Parliament has shown, I think it is very important that the Council of State actually takes this into account, that here Parliament has a strong focus on where we are in the understanding of the legal text. I do not criticise any legal decision on this basis, but I believe that it requires the legislator – us – to do what is to be done, if necessary, in order for the court to make decisions that prevent such a gross insult to the survivors of the Southland and the Archives, as we have just heard a very sensitive speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1254	I would like to thank both the Council of State and, in particular, the representatives Tveiden Benestad and Aukrust for showing this connection between words and the reality we live in. There were two very good posts, which showed that the reality we live in is also shaped by words and symbols. I am absolutely sure that we agree with this House that we should protect freedom of expression, that we should protect our democracy and that we should really be committed to the Convention on Human Rights. We need to protect human dignity. I'm very pleased that the Council of State says that there are interpretations, legal interpretations, which form the basis. That's the way it should be in a democracy, and that's also one of the reasons why we can stand here and discuss whether we think it's right or not, without taking it to income for something special, or having negative consequences afterwards. What I think is also important for us to bring forward and out in the public debate is that freedom of expression must never become a matter for lawyers to settle alone. If we as elected representatives are not to be able to discuss where these boundaries are going at all times, under any system, on any arena, we are not defending democracy, and we must do so. That's why we have to discuss just these things, where these boundaries are going to go, how it's going to happen in practice, and not least what Åsmund Aukrus drew up, how the practice feels out there. It may be that we have the formal things in place, but the practice out there is different from the formal and the signals that the Stortinget – legislator – has given. I would like to thank so many – or many, then I take a little bit of time – and so incredibly good input into this debate. I appreciate that very much, and I actually think the debate deserves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1265	I really appreciated being allowed to visit the Archives in August this year, and I also look forward to opening a Gestapo museum in Bergen later this fall, which has just had the Archive as an example of how they want to run their business. We need these institutions, we need to know the history, and we need to work with the present to take what we want for the future. I have, as I said, a great deal of understanding of the sharp reactions that followed this action in Kristiansand night until April 9, 2018, but I believe that because freedom of expression is and will be a fundamental right in Norway, we must also bear in mind that opponents of opinion come with statements that provoke, and in which we strongly disagree. In a democratic society, inconvenient and supportive statements, at least initially, should be met with counter-arguments, not with punishment. But then freedom of speech is not absolute. Opinions that threaten, mock and promote hatred, persecution or contempt towards some because of characteristics such as skin color, national or ethnic origin, religion or outlook on life are prohibited and they are punishable. Therefore, we need to distinguish between opinions on a subject and opinions that attack individuals and groups. Whether the criminal offence has been violated on a case-by-case basis, is up to the prosecution authority and the courts, and because they are independent, neither should we – from the government nor from the magnificence – govern them. But I would like to repeat that we want these cases reported, we want them investigated, and criminal acts convicted. When I now do not propose changes, it is on the basis that I believe that one case, one case, does not provide a basis for that. But I mean what I said, we have to follow closely up. As the representative of Kolberg also stated, it is of course a responsibility for the legislator to ensure that the Court follows up the intentions that the legislator has had, and we should contribute to that. We've done a lot in Norway. We have done a lot against radicalisation and against violent extremism. We also get international attention. That's good, but this is a work we'll never be done, unfortunately. We all have a great responsibility, and we must take a great responsibility to work against extremism, against racism and against hateful expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1278	That is when the debate is on case No. Six o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1297	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1347	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Audun Lightbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop all exports of arms and armaments to Turkey until the armed conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan has ceased.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1373	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit a proposal for an amendment to the Export Control Regulation which ensures that Norwegian digital monitoring technology is not exported to countries where there is a risk that the technology will be used in violation of human rights.’; The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1390	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10 and 12, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the cessation of all exports of Norwegian strategic goods to States where the military and the other security apparatus are instrumental in systematic and serious human rights violations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to interpret criterion 2 of the U.D. export control guidelines for the human rights situation in the recipient countries more stringent than today and to ensure that Norway does not export strategic products to regimes responsible for widespread human rights violations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a wide range of representatives to review the whole of the Norwegian export control regime, including law, regulations and guidelines, management and governance, practical implementation and the transparency of decisions.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to inform the Government immediately in the event of changes in exports of defence and multi-use goods to the countries participating in the war in Yemen, on the basis of the precautionary principle to avoid Norwegian goods contributing to international law violations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review exports that have taken place since the intervention in Yemen started, in order to ensure that Norwegian material has not been used in the Yemen war.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case that ensures that ATT Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law or regulation.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking that requirements for end-user documentation become practice in all exports of defence equipment, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to explore the possibility of developing control mechanisms that allow enforcement of retail declarations, including a random mechanism, the results of which are included in the annual wholesale notification on exports of defence material.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the publication of reasons for refusal and acceptance of licence applications to countries outside NATO.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the transparency of Norwegian export controls and to explore the possibility of introducing a similar practice as that in the Netherlands, where Parliament is publicly informed of the grant of export licences over a certain sum detailing the evaluation of criteria against the application, except for the nearest allies, within two weeks of the application being granted.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify to companies exporting strategic goods that they are responsible for making independent assessments of care and to report on their follow-up as part of the annual monitoring report on exports of defence equipment.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1473	Case No. 4–6 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1491	The President proposes that referral No. 72 is dealt with under the second paragraph of Article 39(e) of the Rules of Procedure. That means it's being rejected. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1498	We believe that this is a different proposal from the one previously discussed, because it concerns non-commercial traffic stations and proposes that it be sent to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1503	Is there anyone else who is asking for an explanation of vote? The representative of Nils T. Bjørke has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1510	I recommend that the Centre Party support this to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1515	Are there any others asking for the floor in the matter? That doesn't seem so, and we go to voting on the treatment of document 8:32 S for 2020-2021. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal and the proposal of the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1527	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by depositors Nicholas Wilkinson and Karin Andersen on the statutory requirement for a logoped in the municipalities, so that everyone gets the language support they need (Document 8:36 L [[73]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : To be sent to the Health and Care Committee. 3rd@item: inlistbox Representative proposal by Mr Bård Hoksrud, Mr Helge André Njåstad, Mr Terje Halleland, Mr Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Mr Geir Pollestad, Mr Siv Mossleth, Mr Øystein Langholm Hansen, Mr Lene Vågslid and Mr Eigil Knutsen on the concept selection inquiry of arm for the Bergen from E134 (Document 8:37 S [[74]] [[KVU]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : Sent to the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-10-22.ana.ud286e1541	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
