ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e78	The representatives Willfred Nordlund and Freddy André Upper Courtyard, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e97	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e119	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e126	As the covid-19 pandemic led to necessary but intrusive measures in March of this year, a number of occupational groups were effectively banned with immediate effect and thus lost income at short notice. This particularly affected cultural life and self-service activities, many of which are organised as freelancers or as individual enterprises. Therefore, on 16 March the government asked for a temporary scheme for self-employed persons who lost all or part of their income base as a result of the coronary apathy. The proposition we are discussing today is essentially a continuation of the provisional regulation of 8 April 2020 No. 735, based on the Korona Act, but some of the provisions of the regulation are now proposed as amended by the Act. The majority unanimously decided that the compensation should have a coverage of about 80 pst. the average of the last three years' income limited up to 6G as from the 17th day following the loss of income. Despite this, it is proposed here to calculate the benefit for self-employed persons only on the basis of income for 2019. This is justified by the fact that the income data received from the tax base for this group are not sufficiently specified so that they cannot automatically be used as a basis for an automated solution. The use of income tax base data from 2017 and 2018 as the basis for the calculation in an automated solution would provide a large margin of error. In addition, it has been emphasised that the income data for 2019 would provide a more accurate basis for calculating the loss of income, because the revenue for 2019 is assumed to be more representative of what was the normal income before the pandemic than income for previous years. With income for 2019, the calculation period is approximately the same as for freelancers of the same scheme, where only contract revenue is used within the last 12 months. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, wish to maintain the original decision of the Stortingen and do not wish to overestimate the likelihood of loss of income. The Committee's minority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, see the dilemma between precision in the calculations and the care of the vast majority of those affected by accelerated procedures and payments to those who have been without income for a long time. I now want to explain the minority's position. When the Storting makes major changes to complex legislation to be implemented rapidly and affects many, this is not done overnight. The size was informed that the establishment of any new income insurance schemes would not be possible in the short term, i.e. that it could take several months to put new systems in place. In particular, we were made aware that this would be challenging if new groups were to be included in established schemes, especially when several hundred thousand applications are to be dealt with at the same time. The result of the Storting decision is that there are still many who have not received the payments they are due and are therefore in a temporarily difficult economic situation. That's why it's important for us to get what they want as quickly as possible. Starting from income from the last 12 months, or 2019, ensures this. Although self-employed persons normally do not qualify for unemployment benefit, it is reasonable that specific occupational groups which were more or less banned during the night are compensated for loss of income. But I remind you that self-employed people have an organisational form that involves more risk and a lower payment to the population. Thus, individuals must plan, save or insure themselves against sickness or non-income periods. A self-employed person could choose to organise himself as a limited liability company and be an employee in his own company, and would then have all the rights and obligations arising therefrom, including the right to unemployment benefits and the obligation to pay an employer’s contribution. Therefore, the minority believes that it is unfortunate that compensation benefits over time provide a higher level of compensation than in the day-to-day scheme when the pay-up is lower. Now that society – fortunately – is moving towards normalisation, most will once again have the basis to generate their own income. Then it is unfortunate that the benefit remains higher than for ordinary workers without income. Therefore, these members will authorise the Ministry to reduce the compensation rate below 80 pst, but not below the ordinary daily allowance of 62.4 pst. and not earlier than 1 August 2020. However, if there is a need for new intervention by the anti-infectious authorities, new or amended schemes will need to be considered. This is addressed in the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e145	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e150	The temporary compensation scheme for self-employed workers and freelancers that we are dealing with here today is the result of negotiations in the Stortinget. It was a unanimous growth that meant that such a scheme had to be put in place. The system was absolutely necessary, because suddenly many stood without certainty for income and for the future. Someone was ordered to shut down, others indirectly hit. In the agreement negotiated, it was clarified that it was the average of the last three years' income that was to be taken into account for the calculation of compensation. It has not been followed up in the law we are dealing with here today. The argument that we have heard the previous speakers repeat, and that we get from the department, is that it makes an automated system difficult. We in the Workers' Party are positive to automated schemes where you can get your money faster and you can get quick processing, but we cannot accept that some people get unreasonablely low payments because the rules are adapted to what is technologically possible. Then we have to make sure that we have a safety valve in place, so that everyone gets a fair compensation. By using revenue from 2019, as the government parties wish, more people receive an unreasonablely low compensation because 2019 is not necessarily representative of their income. There might be different reasons for that. There are probably more with me who have received e-mails from the woman who is a specialist physiotherapist and a baby's mother. As a self-employed physiotherapist, she had to close her own job and lose all income overnight. In 2019 she was in the situation that she did not get kindergarten, which she so badly needed. The son was going to start in the kindergarten, but there was no nursery space to recover. It meant that she had to take part of the year of unpaid leave. But when the compensation she has applied for, now calculated, is taken into account last year, even though she is now in full employment. It means that she loses a lot, although she can be sure and show that she is now in full employment and loses that money. There are several occupational groups that do not have a stable fixed income year by year. Some creative professions require that you have a stop job in order to produce new material. We've got more feedback from cultural workers who get unreasonably bad out with this rule, people who can nevertheless prove that they have a mission, and that they should have had more in income this spring. When we discover that the arrangements do not make, that individuals are suffering unfairly, we need to adjust along the way. That is why the Workers' Party has put forward proposals in this matter just to catch these, so that we can get a justice and a safety valve so that not all of them can be pulled through the same mill. If the systems don't fit, we have to make some adjustments along the way. In this law, the government wants a power to reduce the level of compensation. It doesn't want the Workers' Party to give the government. To make changes, you get back to Stortinget with suggestions. The proposition also addresses problems with double curtailments — that persons receiving two benefits are curtailed for the same work in both benefits, an indirect penalty for working. You can understand that it's hard to set up schemes quickly, but we can't throw all the principles at the door. Double abbreviation is wrong, and that shouldn't happen. Now we have the opportunity to fix this. The arrangements we make must also be for those that don't fit into a predefined template. Then we have to make sure that most, where possible, can go through automated arrangements. But where it's not fair and can't be done, we have to have those safety valves in place and have a manual procedure for just these people, so that the arrangements we make are fair to everyone and not just to the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e169	On 16 March the Storting asked the Government to introduce a temporary scheme for self-employed and freelancers who have lost all or part of their income base as a result of the corona pandemic. There was a new aid to be put in place quickly, and it was also pointed to in the main hall before Norway went to the lockdown in March. It was then an emergency situation, and it went quickly – as pointed out earlier by the case-rapporteur – and in the event of a mistake, an automated procedure was not allowed. The compensation system is correct, and it is important, especially for those concerned, and for those who receive it. However, it is clear to the undersigned that a lot of time should not be spent on manual processing when automated processing is available under today's system, and use last year's earnings rather than going back three years in time to determine how much is to be compensated for today. So does the criticism that some people come up with against Nav about too long processing time, a bit of a hole and stuck when you even suggest that less should be dealt with automatically and more manually for such a demanding time. It's a temporary law we're dealing with today. It shall enter into force immediately and shall be repealed on 1 November 2020. The objective is to compensate for loss of income that cannot be compensated by other schemes. This does not mean that everyone will make use of that system, because not all freelancers and self-employed people will be affected. Some will still have partial employee income and others will be entitled to other benefits. I also see that there is a discussion about whether self-employed and freelancers are going to be more covered by their wages than normal workers, who pay more in return. We have pointed out that it should not be a continuity and that it should not go on all the way. Here we have also gone from a benefit that before the corona did not exist, to a benefit that is higher than the usual employee gets. Many were banned from work almost overnight. It was dramatic, and that's why we created a whole new system that also provided compensation for this group. And we're going to keep doing that. Now society is opening up more and more on all levels. This means that many will be able to regain their nutritional basis, through the work they have had as businessmen and freelancers before the Korona occurred, but in order to add an additional safety margin, we will retain the higher level of compensation beyond what was initially foreseen, so that we can reduce it from 1 August at the earliest, when we will be even closer to a normal situation again. Finally, I am pleased that we agree to compensate for the loss of income, although there is some disagreement about the level and arrangements of that compensation in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e184	When the Storting dealt with the situation for employees and maritime workers and freelancers on 16 March, it was important for the Centre Party that one had an overall solution that provided both groups, i.e. seafaring traders, freelancers and employees. What we see now is that the government wants to have a rematch. One wants to go away from what was the decision of Storting in the case of seafaring traders and freelancers, and it is very eye-catching and disappointing. What we decided on 16 March was that a sea-going businessman had 16 business days, i.e. 16 days when he did not get any benefits, and that one had about 80 pst. coverage up to 6G thereafter. For employees, both the employer and the employee were greatly improved by the fact that the employer had only two days' notice, i.e. with work and 100 pst. wages and salaries. Then it was given the whole 18 days by 100 pst. pay and then 80 pst. for up to 3G, 62,4 pst. for the next three Gs and zeros above 6Gs – in the same way as there is zero above 6Gs for seafarers and freelancers. It's pretty interesting to read the comments from the government parties. The left is not in the committee, and I think they can be happy, because I have not seen a similar attitude, where the government parties are negative to the marine operator. It is clear, of course, that a seafaring trader does not pay an employer’s fee, but they pay a higher social security charge. They pay 11.4 pst., as opposed to the employees who pay 8.2 pst. We know that, in general, there are 16 waiting days and low coverage on sick pay after 16 days, as opposed to employees who have 100 pst. from the first day. It's a whole we're facing, a complete blockage that I've understood before that the government parties and the central party agreed, that one should improve the conditions of the seagoing business, but we now see that one is releasing the cat out of the bag and going back to what was a unanimous decision on 16 March. This means that the Senterpartiet is part of, together with SV and the Arbeiderpartiet, to go towards § 12, where the government parties propose a regulation that will provide a basis for a lower degree of compensation than 80 pst. The government parties say in their comments that they can go down to 62,4 p.m., which is in all ways far, far lower and provides a worse system for seafarers and employees. As I said, it's very special that the government goes for that line. The centre party was the only party against getting the rule of April 8, 2020 under the Korona Act, because we thought that it contained a restriction on who could get part of the arrangement based on the purpose of the regulation. We now see that our assumption and our assessment of that regulation prove to be correct when someone now sees what the government is proposing. The decision of 16 March also said that it was the average of the last three years' income to be taken as a basis. We stand by the fact that it can be changed to use the annual income in 2019. But in those cases where there is a big difference in income in 2019 versus 2017 and 2018, we say that in an deviation of 25 pst. there shall be a possibility of opening up manual proceedings. That's a central rule we're now going into. As I said, the Central Party strongly supports the decision taken on 16 March. We follow it up and are very surprised and amazed that the government parties are withdrawing from the unanimous agreement that was under way at that time, as the first and important step towards ensuring income security for both employees, businesses, maritime operators and freelancers at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e205	As we know, many occupational groups face major challenges in these days. Necessary anti-infection measures have seen entire industries out of play, and thousands of workers, self-employed and freelancers have lost income. Consequently, it was also absolutely necessary that the Storting should take this decision, Decision No. 395, 16 March 2020: ‘The government is asking for a temporary arrangement for self-employed and freelancers who are now losing all or part of their income base as a result of the corona pandemic. These receive compensation where the coverage is about 80 % of the average of the last three years' income limited up to 6G. The compensation shall be covered as from the 17th day following the loss of income. This is a temporary arrangement until further notice. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» But instead of listening to those who are frames, the government and the Progress Party choose to cut people's chances of getting through this very difficult period. It turns out that the government did not propose a scheme in line with the decision to raise a stake. No, three years' income was up to one, and an 80 pst. allowance is to be given to depart. SV has been very critical of the lightest solutions to the government party, which really jumps over the needs of many people. Self-employed and freelancers are generally at high risk and generally have poor social dishes. In view of the fact that the promises are given only from the 17th day following documented loss of income, and given that the basis of calculation is based on annual income from 2019, for most people, there is already a large loss that they have to bear themselves. I will take an example: a professional group that will be affected by the government's rigours today is practicing musicians. A typical musician's life is this: a 2018 tour with income of 1 million. kr, home production in 2019 where a written song and lyrics, goes to the studio, pays musicians, sound technicians and producers, with total income of SEK 150 000, a scheduled tour in 2020 with scheduled income of SEK 1 million. kr. It goes without saying that having 2019 as a basis here is going to be completely wrong. SV, together with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, will make proposals that will take care of the Nav realities at the same time as it is in line with the decision on enlargement. This is what the other parties should support. Getting yourself a home to set the permissions down from 80 pst. is also something that today is going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e219	The majority adopted in April a regulation on temporary compensation for self-employed and freelancers who have lost their income after the covid-19 outbreak, with the home of the coronalova. When the temporary Koronalova is now in session, the Christian People's Party still sees the need for the continuation of the compensation scheme for these professions. Self-employed and freelancers are in a special position as they do not have an addition ratio and thus fall outside the daily allowance scheme. Many of these have in practice experienced direct occupational bans or total or partial loss of income resulting from the pandemic. The Christian People's Party sees a clear need for the continuation of the compensation scheme, so that this group too will secure coverage of the loss of income they have suffered. The performance will still be limited to revenue loss and not to market failures or fixed costs during the period. Devices such as individuals normally require more planning with regard to possible non-income periods. In this particular situation where many have experienced loss of income almost overnight, it was impossible to shift the magnitude and length of the special situation that occurred. There is a broad consensus that this group will continue to need continued support for loss of income, against support for life expectancy. The performance is therefore too limited to 6G. The provision for compensation will continue to be that a self-employed person/freelancer was active in Norway before 1 March and after 12 March and lost his/her income as a result of covid-19. There are some differences in the way the performance is calculated. The importance of a fairest possible calculation and quick handling based on automated solutions must weigh heavily in the assessment of the basis of calculation. For most people, income in the last year will give the most real picture of loss of income, even if an exception will be found. For freelancers, the basis will be the last 12 months. A calculation based on the last three years will give a greater margin of error and require more manual handling. A quick procedure will be entirely decisive for many people who need this performance, and therefore it will be allowed for automated handling in this proposal. The Christian People's Party considers it necessary to continue the compensation scheme for these professional groups. I would just like to say in the end that the Christian People's Party is behind the continuation of the compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers, as suggested in proposal A of the committee's recommendation for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e234	The legislative proposal under consideration today is intended to ensure the continuation of the temporary provision of income to self-employed and freelancers who have lost income as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. The scheme was based on the Korona Act, which has now been repealed. There is still a need for an income insurance scheme for self-employed and freelancers for a while longer, and the scheme must therefore be provided for in this temporary law. There are no material changes in the scheme compared to when it was presented. We are experiencing a historical crisis situation. There has been a need for drastic measures to prevent the spread of infection. Many businesses have had to close down for a period and others have reduced activity. Employees have been let off or lost their jobs in a number that is on a completely different scale than we have ever experienced before. In addition, we are hit by economic downturns in the world and falls in the oil price. Although a lot now suggests that we are gradually moving up again, the consequences for people, society and the Norwegian economy will continue to be great in the future. We have in a short time put in place schemes to help companies get over their cracks, and schemes to make the economic situation manageable for people in a difficult situation. This helps businesses to get through the crisis and take back their employees when the situation improves. It is crucial that the most jobs remain and adapt to the new economic situation. They're the ones we're going to build the country with, and they're the ones who are going to get the economy back on track. Many self-employed and freelancers have lost income as a result of the coronary eruption. It is important that they also receive income protection during a period when we had to put in place strong measures against the spread of infection. As a result, a whole new income insurance scheme was introduced for this group, and Stortinget stressed that the scheme should be put in place quickly. At the same time, Nav faced a unprecedented amount of daily allowances and demands for the development of new systems and schemes at a pace we have never seen before. We got the compensation in place in record time. Work was done within weeks, which would normally take months, yes, perhaps longer than that. However, in order for the benefit to be paid quickly, it was essential to facilitate automated processing of applications. The hub opened for applications for loss of income on Monday 4 May, and the first payments came immediately. The scheme should be general and cover self-employed and freelancers in all industries. It has not been possible to create custom rules for different groups. Specific rules requiring manual processing and estimation are not manageable. For example: persons in the cultural field who do not benefit from compensation, the Ministry of Culture has recently launched several measures. The Government has proposed that the Ministry be given access to reduce the compensation rate of the scheme by regulation, but, as is also apparent in the recent proposal submitted to the Stortinget, there are no immediate plans to do so now. Although self-employed people pay higher social security contributions than those for employees, they do not pay employers' contributions. Despite the fact that we have so far only paid compensation for one month and a temporary scheme is now legalised, we need to assess how long it should last. Thus, when measures for the protection of infection are rolled back, it is natural that the temporary arrangements should be phased out. Where there is a prospect of a disappearance of income constraints, the scheme must also be stepped down and then removed. We therefore propose that the scheme cease on 31 October, but of course – as with everything else in these uncertain times – subject to what progress will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e251	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e257	The request decision, which has been referred to by several speakers today, which agreed with the unanimous agreement that the scheme should be put in place, decided that the average of the last three years' income should be taken into account. I Prop. 73 S for 2019-2020, the government writes about the scheme, and then three years are taken into account. In the decree, which came on 8 April, the Council of State in the State Council talks, which follows, states that, as a general rule, only 2019 should be taken as a starting point. There have been some changes along the way. Then I wonder why the government stands firm by not being able to make any exceptions for those who obviously fall outside the scheme and get no use of it. It is fully possible to put in place an automatic system for most, but for the few that fall outside, and that would have benefited from the original decision of the Stortinget, other arrangements could be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e264	The short answer is simply the capacity of Nav. It is always a matter of priority. Nav has already been tested to the limit every day and every week. At that time, it has been assessed that it is better to use other types of schemes, such as: under the Ministry of Culture, in order to try to hit groups that may come out badly. There are at least some people who get out of this system badly. Only briefly why it was necessary and right to do so: it is because the income information Nav receives from the tax bill has been combined with other income not to be included as a basis for the benefit – fees, remuneration from duties and duties, etc. It is then not possible to extract the relevant income from an automated solution. For the large majority, a calculation basis based on 2019 is likely to give a fairly accurate picture of the normal income at the front of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e271	It's not like everyone's being caught by the new arrangements of the Ministry of Culture. For example, the woman who had to take unpaid leave pending kindergarten because she did not have kindergarten space for her son cannot apply for that scheme. I believe it is unreasonable that once you have been in that situation and can show that you have an actual loss of income, you should not be able to get it compensated. Is it the case that the government and the Council of State have stated that it is more important at any time to avoid more work for Nav than to give people a fair compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e276	We've had 450,000 lay-offs since March 12. In addition, self-employed, freelancers, students who have a job, non-resident workers who are entitled to a daily allowance, etc. More work has Nav. So Nav has something that doesn't look like something we've seen before in peacetime in Norway. The question here is not to prevent further work. The question here is what envelopes we have to do to get the money out quickly and to prevent not only the Nav being tested to the limit, because that makes the system today, but that they won't be able to deliver on the very basic things. Of course, I also see that these are things that don't hit everyone. We also knew that when the arrangements came, but some such choices we had to make so that it wouldn't take even longer to get them in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e283	That's an answer people can't pay their bills with. We understand that Nav is under pressure of capacity, but this is about the income and security of people. That Nav could have treated them for this, manually, I'm sure you could have got a solution for it, you would have wanted it. The proposition also describes the problem of double curtailment – the fact that people will receive double curtailment for the same job if they receive two Nav benefits, that is, if you work, you will be penalised a little indirectly. Why does the Council of State accept that a system is not put in place to avoid this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e290	The short answer is again that when an explosion in the number of unemployed and outsourced in a short time, which has no parallel in peacetime, while a unanimous increase wants completely new schemes and, in part, major changes within existing schemes, there is a sum of changes that together are extremely demanding to deal with. One of the things you normally want to do in advance — when you have time, and we didn't have it during the coronary crisis — is to coordinate benefits, because it's complicated. The reason for this is, among other things: the number of hours worked and not the number of industrial activities reported in the day-to-day arrangements. Therefore, Nav does not have information as to whether the work is related to income against which compensation benefits are curtailed. In addition, it also has to be said that compensation benefits are curtailed per calendar month, while the daily allowance is shortened per 14 days, which may run over two different calendar months. In total, this was also one of the choices we had to make to get the system in place as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e297	The case concerns the adoption of a new temporary law as compensation for the Korona Act, in which case the compensation scheme we are now talking about is to have its legal basis. It should then be reasonable to say that the material content of what was adopted in the past, under the Korona Act, was to be continued according to the new legal basis. But it's not like that. Defects are signalled here for sea-going traders and freelancers. We are all aware that the temporary measures will end at some point, but here the government is giving signals that they will end earlier than they have been decided. So the Council of State says it's not adding up to'substanceal changes'. Why, then, is it suggested that benefits can be reduced after 1 August 2020, while it is set to end for all 31 October?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e304	Only for the formal first: a unanimous increase has adopted the scheme, it is provided for in the Korona Act, and then the scheme comes back to full proceedings in the Stortinget now – i.e. that the Storting gets a new chance, and the majority of the Storting gets a new chance to say what they mean. So formally, it's not problematic. So it's very uncertain how the harvest will develop. One thing is if there were to be new blooms of infection, local or national, something else is that it is also highly uncertain how the economy will develop. The reason why we want to have into a regulation that we can also adjust the compensation performance is that if the situation continues to be what it looks like now, namely little infection and spread of infection and the gradual return of the economy, it may be reasonable to reduce the level of compensation somewhat, but not further down compared to the majority of the Stortinget has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e313	The formal procedure is correct: when a new law is adopted as the basis for a benefit, there is a new opportunity to change the position, if necessary, and that is what the government is doing here. And the government changes its position because it says that "it's basically unfortunate that the compensation rate in this scheme is higher than in the pay-as-you-go scheme", i.e. for employees. There was something one was aware of when one did it, that the benefit between 3G and 6G for seafaring traders and freelancers was 80 pst. for employees there was 62.4 pst. For seafaring businessmen and freelancers, there were 16 qualifying days, and that was similar in terms of the first 3G. So here the government goes back on what one agreed on. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e320	I shall at least give the representative Lundtigen the right to have the government, through this wording, an opportunity to lay down regulations, which are different. It is not announced, either in this proposition or in the larger proposition about the first part of Phase 3, which now came on Friday, substantive changes in this scheme. I have to admit that I believe that for all of these schemes, precisely because so much is uncertain, we need to consider almost continuously what the development is like, to see if something should be changed or adjusted, and that also applies in the case of the level of compensation. But as I said, if we had planned to do this immediately, it would have been reasonable to notify it, for example. In the proposition, and we haven't done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e331	So everyone is aware of it: what the government here is proposing is a deterioration for seafaring businessmen and freelancers who serve between 0 and 3G, i.e. up to 300,000 kroner. For them, the government believes that a compensation scheme of 80 pst. is too favorable. One wants permission to go down to 62.4 pst. That's the core of the matter. Otherwise, the government says in general that one should have predictability of the arrangements that are. Such a regulation, which can be put into action by the government when appropriate, does not provide predictability. And as the council says, we don't know what's going to happen, maybe with a new flowering of infection and of the pandemic. This is why it helps to create uncertainty for those who serve the worst of maritime operators and freelancers. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e341	I don't think I'm going to judge how people perceive changes that have come, but I'm probably pretty sure there are other things that create far more uncertainty for those who are self-employed and freelancers, among other things. the development of the economy, on which many small and medium-sized enterprises are extremely dependent. And then I can do nothing but repeat my own argument: in such a temporary arrangement, it makes sense, in my opinion, that the government has a mandate to be able to look at the rates as well. As I said, there are no immediate plans to do this now, but it is natural to consider it beyond the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e348	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e355	After hearing the last answer from the Council of State, I choose to make an article. We are all aware that there are other things than this scheme that are very important to the economy of marine operators and freelancers. And this scheme -- which for those groups meant 16 qualifying days where you had no income coverage, and then 80 pst. for the first 3G and 62,4 pst. for the next 3G – was a sober balance between the conditions of seafaring entrepreneurs and freelancers versus employers and employees. It is quite special when the Council of State says that one does not have immediate plans about this. Well, it says that this is an option that a person wants to be able to implement after 1 August 2020. The Council of State says that here we are in an uncertain situation, we do not know how long it will be necessary to have these income insurance schemes for employees, seafarers and freelancers. It's the evolution of the pandemic that will decide. Therefore, I just want to end by saying that it is alarming that the government parties in this way are attacking a unanimous setting in the first round. It was part of a whole where a balanced relationship for both employers, workers and those who choose to work as maritime traders and freelancers, with the risk involved. And it is quite clear that this is a step backwards from what everyone agreed would also apply to income protection for seafarers and freelancers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e363	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e393	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e400	The working party works for a safe and fair working life with all the permanent jobs and a wage to live on. Renting threatens such a working life in many ways. This can cause permanent employees to be squandered and replaced by rents, to put pressure on wages and salaries, and to reduce the influence of trade unions. If this happens, the entire working life is affected. That's why it has to be cleaned up once and for all. We need clearer rules, more effective supervision, stricter penalties for breaches of the rules, more influence on trade union movement and a better understanding of how labour market developments actually are. As far as stricter rules are concerned, the Labour Party is pleased that, in the last period, we were pressured by the majority of the Storting against the government's will to tighten up access to hire labour by giving trustees greater power. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said this was the government's greatest defeat, and Right Margaret Hagerup was infinitely sad. Now, however, they have realized that they had a bad case and are trying to create the impression that they are for this. But there is still a loophole in the law. There is an option to avoid the requirement for a trust agreement at the time of the lease if it can be justified by a temporary need. This is being exploited to the full by unprofessional actors. The Workers' Party therefore proposes that this hole be closed together with the Centre Party and SV. With the policy of the Workers' Party, rentals will be prohibited except for pure vicariates, rentals between production companies and where trustees and management agree. The right-hand side disagrees and obviously does not want to contribute to further cleanup. But good law alone is not good enough. The government has ensured the entry into force of the new rules without any supervision. As a result, the restrictions have not had as much consequences as they desired. With this, the government has given the unprofessional and the criminals a free year. In fact, most of the serious and organised businesses have followed the new rules and want to follow the law. But the unprofessional, where the trade movement is often also weak, have gained free play from the government. Gradually, the government must have realized that this was a loss, for now they are suddenly under supervision. But this shows an incredibly weak government. The government does not listen to the Labour Inspectorate, who says that they spend a lot of resources asking for and getting a copy of the documentation. In order to make supervisory work easier and faster, we therefore propose to legislate on the obligation to provide information. It's very strange that the right-hand side won't be on this. In addition, we need stronger trade unions that can be watchkeepers and team up with employees who are being exploited. The whole facility we have proposed to regulate rentals is also about strengthening the influence of trade union movement and giving the trustees greater power. We are therefore also proposing to reintroduce the union's ability to promote a case on behalf of an employee who is being exploited by his employer. The right-hand side is more concerned with recognising the unorganised working life, a working life that undermines our community and our well-being. That the right-hand side does not want stronger unions, is well known. It is more incredible that the Right does not care that it is the serious businesses that lose if the unprofessional get free play. Here I would like to say that in the setting under the chapter on collective redress, the Workers' Party should have been mentioned together with the Centre Party and SV in terms of voting and proposals in the above-mentioned settings. This is because of an incurrency. In terms of transparency, we ask for monitoring of the development and extent of rentals and how they affect working life, as well as a better overview of the actors providing services and work in Norway. Better overview will help to find targeted measures, but this is also right-hand. It's obvious to everyone that it's the red-green parties that are leading the work to ensure a safe and fair working life, and that we have to constantly drag a reluctant right side after the hair. With this, I am promoting proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and SV, as well as warnings that the Workers' Party is voting in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 2, from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e421	The representative of Arild Grande has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e426	A serious and inclusive working life is the basis for our common well-being, and the general rule of Norwegian working life is and must be permanent throughout jobs. This is actually quite a consensus in this room. But I would like to remind the representative of Grande that in 2014 LO's then vice-president Stein Reegård pointed out that the entire increase in employment in the years from 2008 and beyond, i.e. on the Labour Party's watch, went to foreign labour, which he thought was pressured out to the North. Employment in these years fell, and crime at work increased, particularly linked to illegal rental and social dumping. I understand that there is a need to write a little about the story, because when the representative Grande says that regulation was being pushed against the government's will, there is reason to remember that it was in June 2017 that Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Anniken Hauglie proposed major changes in the regulation of rent, a clarification of the concept of fixed-term employment and the prohibition of so-called zero-hour contracts. The reaction from LO-Trusted Boye Ullmann to VG was something like ‘this is a bomb and almost too good to be true’, and that ‘they rap their clothes to Ap, and well so’. So I understand that this is painful for the Workers' Party, because after the accession of the Solberg Government, the fight against labour-life crime has been significantly escalated by the establishment of seven centres against labour-life crime, stricter penalties and higher fines for those who break laws and regulations, demands for apprentices on all construction projects for which the public pays. If this is to draw legs, the fight against labour-life crime under the Workers' Party must be as cast in cement. We now see that the use of temporary employment has fallen and is now lower than under the previous government. Before the Korona crisis, unemployment had not been so low in ten years, and the proportion working part-time has fallen year by year. Permanent full-time jobs have been and must be the general rule in Norwegian working life. On behalf of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Fafo carried out a research project from 2014 to 2018 on the development of the use of forms of association such as temporary employment, rental and self-employment in Norwegian working life. Fafo estimated that the hiring-in of labour provided by the manning enterprises was between 1.5 and 2 pst. of all annual works, but there are large regional differences and differences between industries. Much of the growth in the manning industry has come within rentals for construction, which in 2019 accounted for 33 p.m. by the activities of the crew members in the NHO Service and Trade. Nevertheless, numbers from the manning industry show a decline in activity for the second half of 2019, mainly due to reduced rentals to construction. In Oslo, the decrease of 36 p.m., which is what the NHO Service and Trade believe is a result of the changes The Storting decided in the legislation. However, surveys carried out by, among others: trade unions and also Fafo suggest that there have been challenges related to compliance with the rules. For this reason, the Government is now proposing to strengthen the enforcement by the Labour Inspectorate of the rules on equal treatment in the provision of labour, in line with the Labour Crime Strategy. Useric actors and labour-life crime undermine both the rights of individual workers and the serious business life and welfare base of Norway. It's unacceptable. Therefore, efforts against unprofessional actors in vulnerable industries have been intensified since the government shift in 2013, and results are emerging. According to the Joint Annual Report on Etates’ Response to Labour Crime 2019, the large picture shows that the extent of work-life crime has not just stagnated but is likely to be reduced. In the SERO study from 2019, exposed industries report that the proportion of those experiencing low or very low risk of detection has fallen from 30 pst. in 2009, on the Guard of the Workers' Party, to 24 p.m. in 2019. SERO also shows that more than half of businesses believe that there is a high or very high probability of being controlled over the next two years. Cooperation between the social partners and particularly vulnerable sectors with coordinated and wide-ranging authority work has contributed to a comprehensive response to the crime of working life. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened through increased appropriations to support the follow-up of vulnerable industries and businesses through regulatory control and enforcement. When the Storting now adopts the Government’s proposal, the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate and the Air Safety Authority shall be empowered to supervise compliance with the conditions for hiring out staff undertakings and the non-discrimination requirement for hiring out workers, and including the competence of the supervisory authorities to impose obligations and reactions in the event of infringements of those rules. This government takes the crime of working life seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e447	When I heard the last post, I was quite touched, because there is something that has characterized this case, so it is that the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has always argued against what has been necessary action. It is a complicated matter, but those who want to get into it thoroughly, have the opportunity, and will then be able to see the documentation on what I am now saying. These changes that we are now discussing, the amendments to the Working Environment Act and the Public Service Act, should have been in place from 1 January 2019. Prior to that, the law was amended, and we made clear what was permanent employment, we were made clear that there was nothing that hot fixed employment without pay between jobs. We got at all the clarification of the law that was necessary for the control authorities to find out what was right and what was wrong. And that's what's wrong under the law, which is criminal. If you don’t have a sharp clarification of it, you don’t get a follow-up to the law – then the conditions continue, which is very demanding. It is, therefore, § 18-6 of the Working Environment Act that is important here, which provides the Labour Inspectorate with a legal basis for imposing directives and individual decisions, and for bringing in that legislative change has a long history. I never forget how the government opposed, with enormous efforts from both the NHO and the Works – here one should not have the Labour Inspectorate who could ensure that the law was followed. Today, there is no trace of evidence of NHO and the argument of Works, and after the government’s previous argument, that it was not appropriate to use the Labour Inspectorate. The centre party has been a driving force in the matter in a number of proposals. We've been on for over five years. The first proposals came in 2015, and we have worked intensively and well with both the professional movement and the forces within the NHO that are concerned with a serious and good working life. We received a majority decision, a decision of 4 June 2018, which commissioned the government to prepare proposals for a control function, and then the next problem came: What was a control function? There were people who thought there was something different than the Labour Inspectorate. It has now become muted. It was quite logical that in this area, as in other areas, the Labour Inspectorate should follow the provisions of the Labour Environment Act. The majority, i.e. the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, who lead the case – I want to say that it is SV and the Centre Party who lead, and the Workers' Party is increasingly involved in the necessary measures – have pointed out in the section that it is a particular problem to obtain documentation from temporary agencies established abroad. It is an area that needs to be looked at and it is essential that documentation is available at the workplace. It shall be available by electronic means, which will make the supervisory work of the Labour Inspectorate more effective. And it's important that we focus on the relationship between rental versus enterprise, so that one here can't turn away and call things enterprise when it's actually renting. It is essential that the Labour Inspectorate is provided with the necessary additional annual audit body and thus able to carry out more local supervision. There must be a greater risk of being taken. When the Centre Party does not participate in proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and SV, to ask the government to file a case for the reintroduction of collective legal remedies against the illegal hiring of labour, it has its reason that we are in favour of a legislative amendment to the Working Environment Act § 17-1 new fifth paragraph, which states that trade union members of an enterprise that has hired workers from manning companies may, according to the Working Environment Act § 14-12, bring legal proceedings in their own name on the legality of such hiring. This is a collective right of appeal formulated in the legal text – collective court law of the Centre Party and SV formulated in the legal text. It's a much better text than having it as a general formulation. This must also be agreed by the Labour Party. Proposal No. 1 is therefore unnecessary, but if the Workers' Party maintains proposal No. One, the Center Party will vote for it. As regards proposal No: 3 from SV, the Central Party in previous settings has made it clear through comments and suggestions that we want to replace recruitment agencies with temporary employment agencies. This means that the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act must be deleted from the Act and that the first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act can only be used under Section 14-9(b) of the Working Environment Act, which specifically applies to Vicariats. So we go from the agency to the temporary employment office. Finally, a explanation of vote: the Central Party supports proposal No. 4 from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e470	Is the representative going to record the Central Party and the SV's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e475	That's right!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e480	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e485	It was a statement for the trade union movement and for the safety of the individual worker at work that day in 2018 when the Stortinget adopted new rules for hiring labour. But in addition to the fall of the same year, when it began to approach the entry into force of the new law, there began to be concerns about how it was to be enforced. The Joint Alliance, which has been subject to a great deal of nesting in many of its industries, launched a large project that lasted for several months to provide as many trust leaders as possible with training and management tools as they could use when the rules came into force. But even though the Joint Union did a very good job here, it doesn't help when the supervisory authorities still don't have the authority to control. The Joint Association itself stated during this period that if the new rules are not understood and established in the first three months, the practice will slip into the sand, especially when the Labour Inspectorate cannot be involved in and play on layers. There are many relatively simple steps that should have been taken to make legislation simpler and the supervision of depositors more effective, including in particular. the documentation requirement for which we propose. I really don't think it's too much to ask that there be any evidence in the workplace that the rules are being followed. This, together with collective redress, would have been a good method of prevention – to put it that way – against the law of labourless persons. The Labour Inspectorate, as other governmental bodies, has been exposed to ABE cuts for many years. This has serious consequences for Norwegian working life. The government boasts of the number of checks that have been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate. This may result in a pressure on the establishment that it is the number of digits and not the quality of the work as a count. Now I'm not going to stand here and say that they're doing a bad job in the Labour Inspectorate, because that's absolutely not true. But I have heard stories about a law-abiding transport company that is checked every single year, without comments from the Labour Inspectorate, while a competing company that has been the tip of repeated times is not frequently checked. I have myself tried to send a concern message to the Labour Inspectorate for a farmer. Then I got the answer that the Labour Inspectorate did not give priority to agriculture in that part of the country, because there were not so many gardeners. What's a way to drive? This shows that there is reason to worry about the resources of the Labour Inspectorate when they are charged with these ABE cuts. This leads to quantity over quality. So finally a little general about renting: We in SV still believe that hired workers from the agency are something we do not want. It gives enterprises flexibility, but it is at the expense of employees’ security. For these reasons, we have put forward proposals which severely restrict this industry, but also propose a general ban. With that, I'm making the proposal that SV is behind in the setting. Then I see that Red has made two good suggestions in this case, and they want to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e500	The representative of Solfrid Lerbreck has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e506	I do not have any figures on all the reports we have received on the criminal and ill-treatment of staff in the personnel industry, nor on the number of times the government is in favour of this industry. The majority of the population has, in several crossroads, pushed the government to tighten in. In 2018, Erna Solberg summed up the contraction in the use of hired labour as the government’s largest defeat that session. So the government has drawn its legs all the way. We also see that with this proposal by the government, which is being dealt with in the storeroom today. The first problem with the proposal is that it is too late. It was supposed to be here on 1 January 2019, when the new and tightened rental rules came into force. The government has in practice undermined the tightening up by not providing the supervisory authority from day one. It became almost risky to break the provisions when they brought the matter up in this way. The second problem with the proposal is the money. If we are to put a stop to the violations of the rules of rental, much more money is needed for supervision than the government comes with it. It is becoming increasingly less and less supervised by the Labour Inspectorate. In the last three years, annual supervision has been reduced by 4,500. There are also several tools missing in the Toolbox. The Joint Undertaking requests the introduction of an obligation in the law to document in writing that rentals are lawful and the documentation must be in place before the rental starts. Such a documentation requirement is easy to fulfil, and it is easy to sanction, for example: in the case of a solid fee, if the documentation is not available. That proposal does not support the current government. On the other hand, it is trying to patch up what is actually a pill of the rotten industry that has provoked a near-coupled Norwegian trade union movement because of its use-and-throat of workers. We in Red are listening to the trade union movement, to the demands of the EL and IT Association, from the Joint Federation and from the Education Association that the personnel industry must be abolished in its present form. Therefore, our main requirement is to ban the commercial manning industry and replace it with a comprehensive public employment service. It is wasted with the community's resources that we spend millions of dollars to make sure that the agencies don't break laws and regulations – every year. We would save both time and money to get rid of these agencies and rather invest in regular employment and more rent between production companies in combination with public employment services. That is why we are promoting two proposals today. One is to return a employment agency to replace the commercial employment agencies. The welfare state needs to help people get back to work, not just send them on CV writing courses with private companies. First of all, we are going in to establish a government staffing pool for the industry in cooperation with the social partners. The Korona crisis has shown us that temporary employment agencies are unable to meet the labour needs of industry or other parts of the world of work. We must have a thorough investigation into this, so we propose to monitor today's labour supply and the future need for labour. We will have an overview of the skills development measures needed and how to build up the employment service to ensure full employment, in cooperation with the social partners. Here we need to see vocational training, labour market measures and employment services in the context. In our view, the Korona crisis is the right time to start winding up the commercial recruitment agencies. Past crises have led to the replacement of permanent employees by late rents. We are not going to let that happen this time, but much stronger action is needed. Today's proposal from the government comes after pressure from Stortinget. It's a small and careful step in the right direction, but the big task is to get back to a public employment agency, so we can get rid of the commercial staffing world. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e523	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e528	As mentioned above, there is a strong consensus that fixed and good working conditions should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. Rentals and temporary employment shall be complementary and may only be used when specific conditions are met. At the same time, although there were good reasons to propose regulatory constraints, such as that government – or at least a variant of this government – and the previous government council – it is also such that the manning industry as such is a legitimate and relevant part of Norwegian business. Too many businesses, not least for the export-oriented industry, are able to take people in, for example. to avoid stoppages, absolutely essential. And it's necessary for them to have that flexibility. At the same time, there has been an increasing use of hired labour in some sectors over a long period of time. In particular, there has been the case in the construction industry. About 1.5-2 pst. the annual work of the Norwegian labour force is carried out by employees hired from temporary work establishments. In the construction industry, the proportion was about 6 pst. by Fafos calculations in 2018. There was a much larger rent share in Oslo. At the same time, there have been signs from both the employee and the employer that there is a good deal of illegal rental. The surveys carried out so far also indicate that there are challenges related to compliance with the rules. A much-discussed 2019 Fafo report indicated that between 23 and 36 pst. justifications used by the establishments for the use of rentals which may appear to be contrary to the law. Today it is the case that the lessee himself has to comply with a breach of the rules. That's the few that actually do, as far as we know. This may be related to a lot of things, for example: that the hired worker works only for the lessee for a short period of time, often has a foreign language background, little organisation, etc. If the rules are broken, rents are widely used and enforcement is lacking, we could have negative consequences for the competitive conditions, safety and working environment of serious enterprises, recruitment, productivity and quality, to mention something. For this reason, the Government proposes to strengthen official controls by empowering the Labour Inspectorate to oversee the rules. They shall be able to impose an obligation on establishments to stop illegal rental. It is in addition to the individual's ability to follow up the case and claim permanent employment. The Petroleum Authority and the Air Safety Authority shall have the same authority over their areas of competence. The supervision also applies to non-discrimination rules, where the rule of indemnity and non-discrimination, and therefore also violations of the set of rules, are closely linked. The labour inspectorate shall also be able to impose penalties where the establishments do not provide the necessary information to them or where the activities do not comply with a decision to terminate. It will strengthen and streamline controls. The opening proposal implies something new in the sense that more discretionary rules that have so far been enforced by private law through the courts are now subject to public supervision. A central point of the proposal is that it provides a basis for identifying the systematic breaches and thus taking new steps in the fight against labour-life crime. In addition, the government of the revised national budget has proposed to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate with a total of 15 million. in 2020, so that the agencies can begin to prepare for this new and important effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e554	In its statement, the Council of State confirms what we have consistently said, that the individual worker often remains alone when he has been exploited by his employer, and that it is right to supervise the rental legislation. It's been fighting the right side for many years, but now they're using the same argument that we used when we proposed it two years ago and beyond. What I would like to challenge the Council of State is what the Labour Inspectorate itself points out that can facilitate their work. They say that they use a lot of resources to ask for and get a copy of the documentation on the legality of rentals, but the right-hand side still agrees with our proposal to legislate on the obligation to provide information. Why will not the right-hand side and the party of the Council of State be involved in ensuring that what the Labour Inspectorate itself requests, namely a simplification of supervision, can be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e561	I will not categorically reject – I will not even reject – that there may be a proposal that you have to put in place, or look at it afterwards, but here it is enough to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One of the reasons why public oversight in general is difficult to obtain evidence is that proper, proper and fair Norwegian businesses do not want to document. Rather, it is because it is the unsuitable, the dishonest, the unprofessional businesses that do not properly document. The introduction of such a requirement may have the effect of keeping the unprofessional as before, while the serious burden is not insignificant. Because the Storting has also been concerned about the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises and that we should not confuse their everyday lives too much, there is also reason to wait and see if the Labour Inspectorate receives the documentation they require, when they are now also being penalised for pushing it out, before going to that step.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e566	What the council here says, I don't think leads to correctness. So whoever wants to rent in already today has to prove to the agency that, for example. the rules on equal treatment are followed. The real, serious companies that want to follow the law do that job well already today, but where there is no information for the Labour Inspectorate, the Labour Inspectorate must therefore use large resources to request and send this documentation, just from the non-professionals. It is to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate can concentrate on targeting precisely these unprofessionals, that we want this measure, rather than that the Labour Inspectorate has to spend a lot of time on a lot of bureaucratic work. It is strange that a party like the Right, who would otherwise like to talk about simplification for business and for government, is not concerned that we should provide supervision with a measure that would simplify and red tape the supervisory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e571	Now I tried to be a little bit open to the proposal. As the Ministry has previously written in the context of the general consultation, it is said that such a requirement for documentation is not currently proposed, but the Ministry does not exclude the possibility of introducing such a requirement if it appears that the Labour Inspectorate does not have access to the relevant documentation within a reasonable period of time. And then I showed that the Labour Inspectorate should be able to impose penalties if the companies do not provide the necessary information to the supervisory authorities or where the business does not comply with the shutdown decision. Then I think we are simply back to the balance that I pointed out, namely that it can be very tempting – sometimes it is also right – to introduce new regulations on documentation, but it is easy to impose a not insignificant burden on serious businesses, while the unprofessional companies do not do it, thus increasing the administrative burden without actually getting something back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e576	One of the reasons why measures to red tape and simplify the supervisory process are called for is that, as a number of other public agencies under today’s government, the Labour Inspectorate has been starved. It is claimed that the government has invested in the crime of working life, but in reality it has fed the Labour Inspectorate and thus limited the possibilities of having effective and proper supervision. Heidi Nordby Lunde has said that the Right wants to return to normal as soon as possible. It has to be back to normal with the ABE-cut. Stefan Heggelund has said that what you have cut so far is not enough, and that you have to double the ABE cuts. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e583	I think it makes sense to stick to the most predictable ABE-cut, and then the Storting has sometimes increased the rates, but it has the Storting opportunity to do. The claim that the Labour Inspectorate has been starved is not correct – to say it as diplomatic as I can. If you look at the numbers of work-life crime, all the relevant indicators that need to be reduced are going down. An important part of this is that the Labour Inspectorate works well, efficiently and purposefully, also with other departments. The representative of Grande can use a post later to refresh my memory on how many of these ABE cuts the Workers' Party has reversed in its alternative budgets. Because it has to be relevant when you talk about starving feeding, that you have added the same money, heads for heads. Now on the tap, I don't remember how many budgets there are, so I'm sure the representative of Grande will remind me about later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e592	Today's debate is a result of the decision taken on 4 June 2018, where the Stortinget commissioned the government to draw up proposals for a control function to oversee and order the adoption of individual decisions to implement the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act. The central thing was the concept of ‘control function’, and we had a long discussion about the concept of ‘control function’ at the time. So now it's closer to two years, and I expect the government to have assessed various control functions that would be covered by Section 18-6 of the Working Environment Act, which we are discussing. My specific question is: What bodies other than the Labour Inspectorate have the Ministry assessed to perform this control function?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e600	I have to admit that I don't know the answer. It's also because this process was largely finished before I got into the department. However, it is worth noting that the word ‘control function’ does not only mean several, or other, governmental bodies. There might also be other ways to do it. But the history of the case I must admit that I do not remember on the standing foot.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e607	It's an honest answer, and I appreciate a government council that's that way. It gives a big star in the book – a big star in the book! The thing is, this was the most central one that time. It was the government's intention to turn away from the fact that it was the Labour Inspectorate who would be responsible for the job. The whole opposition did not see that there was any other appropriate body – in this field as in other fields – than the Labour Inspectorate to do it. Well, now we have landed that matter – after a long extraction. Now it says that the law will come into force when the King decides. My next question is, when will this law change come into effect? Do we have to wait another long time, or will it now – expedition?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e616	It's coming out. That is, this is going to come quickly. Then, of course, we assume that not only the King in the Council of State, but also the King agrees – if not the historical consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e621	That gives a new star in the book. It's rare I distribute stars, but when it's earned, it's available. The Council of State said that manning is a supplement and that the manning industry is legitimate. I totally agree with that. It is legitimate because the industry today has two legal homes in the Working Environment Act, the first paragraph of Section 14-12 and the second paragraph of Section 14-12. The Council of State said that it is necessary to avoid stoppages, and stoppages are temporary work. The first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act allows a manning company without agreement with a trade union to take temporary work – crew stops or seasonal work – according to Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act, second paragraph, point (a). My question is: does the Council of State see a problem that, after we tightened up the second paragraph of § 14-12, the first paragraph of the 14-12 is misused to take such temporary assignments under the second paragraph of point (a) of Section 14-9?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e630	First I'd like to say thank you for the stars. I can confirm that it is not so often that it comes from the representative, Lundtigen, so I appreciate it. If you look at the whole system of non-permanent employment, it's like the rules of temporaryity and the rules of rental are linked. That is, if you have very liberal rules in one area and very strict rules in the other, the need will expand one of the places. That's why it makes sense to try not to have too many differences between the two. My point in the post was simply to mildly polemize against those who are trying to say that the entire manning industry as such is the pill rat, which is probably a quote from the representative Moxnes. I fundamentally disagree with that. I believe that having a staffing industry, that we are not going back to the fact that only the public should operate with it, that is, a kind of state monopoly on employment services and renting out in Norway, is good. But it has to be clear and clear rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e639	Then this star-stuck cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e646	To the last Council of State said that temporary employment and staffing companies are linked: yes, one might also say that the enterprise price is linked to the whole, and what was therefore done in connection with the tightening up of crew companies was that such a whole. Manning agencies, the Center Party has arrived, is an inconsistency, because if we practice temporary employment according to the text of the law, to take work stops or seasonal assignments, it could be quite good. We also know that we have contracts that can be used in accordance with the rules of contracts. It's central to seeing this whole thing. I took the floor in connection with the very relationship we are talking about now: crew companies versus temporary employment agencies. The centre party wants to phase out the crew companies. We have to do this by removing the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act, which is the entire bar door to replace permanent employees with crew members. Then we are left with the first paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act to implement vicariates according to Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act, second paragraph, point (b). Only in this way will we be able to seal the loopholes that are, and we will facilitate that the companies are paying for permanent employees. To the extent that someone needs temporary employment to take tops, do it. And then a temporary employment agency has to cover up concrete vicariates in connection with sickness, maternity and education. I would like to stress that there is a need to have time to change to get back to a more serious working life. Therefore, business needs to have predictability and the necessary framework conditions to have profitability in its business, based on permanent employees and Norwegian wage and working conditions. Finally, to underline what I said in my first post: the centre party voted in favour of proposal No. 3, from SV, to make it clear that there should be no doubt that the position that is now referred to, we stand for, including by proposal. When it comes to collective redress, I said a mistake in my first post. It was not only the Center Party and the SV who were for a concrete legislative formulation of it, but also the Workers' Party. That's why I asked the Workers' Party if they could not reject their proposal when one had a concrete bill to reintroduce collective redress, which is the best in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e667	It is obvious to everyone that the Right has challenges with its own history in this matter. It is true, as Heidi Nordby Lunde pointed out in his statement, that the then government council Anniken Hauglie had said in an interview that you should consider changes. But no initiative ever came from the government. It was only a rail manoeuvre to avoid a difficult conflict case in an electoral campaign – in and of itself quite successful – but there was never any initiative. All the initiatives that came, that is, from the Workers' Party, from the Centre Party, from the SV or even from the Red Party, because there were large parts of the Norwegian left side of the policy together and were totally rejected by the Right and Government parties. It was thanks to the fact that the Christian People's Party had not yet entered the government and thus left the Norwegian working life, that we got a majority in the Stortinget for historical tightening of the rental code, all the time with the right side against. To the Centre Party, which challenges what proposal to vote for and not, it may be interesting when the representative Lundtigen himself claims that he is in close contact with the trade union movement: we have asked the LO and the Joint Confederation for advice on what is best to do. It is clear that what we proposed in 2015 is not necessarily word for word what is being proposed now. Therefore, the LO and the Joint Association have recommended that we vote in favour of a verbal proposal, so that we can find out a proper legal text that is up-to-date and that captures the various aspects of the matter. But since we agree on the matter, and because we stand by what we did when we were in government, we naturally vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Senterpartiet and SV. So that's why we're also saying that we're promoting our verbal proposals in the area of collective redress. With regard to the Red's proposal, proposal No. 4, we shall vote in favour of it. We believe that the essence of this is captured by IV in the setting part B, and that it will be a much faster work than a NOU, which takes several years. We would call for more votes in favour of a proposal that will go faster and that will capture the same, but we will vote subsidiaryly for a public inquiry as well. At the end of the day, I will help to refresh the Council of State's memory, for it was claimed that the Workers' Party does not correct the government's ABE cut. I can remind you that the Workers' Party added a plus 87 million. SEK to the Labour Inspectorate alone in our alternative state budget to correct the cuts made by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e678	Whether it's sad, or it's scary to sit here and listen to this debate, I'm a little uncertain about it, but it's not entirely true to the description of reality. We have repeatedly said that we in Norway have a safe and good working life. Based on today's debate, it doesn't sound like that, but it's like most people comply with laws and regulations, but there are also those who exploit people around them and the systems. We've always been clear about that is unacceptable. We have therefore been constantly working to address labour-life crime and unprofessional actors since the government change in 2013. However, the right considers that it is important not to criminalise an entire industry, as is largely done in the debate on the personnel companies. Many employment agencies address a completely necessary and legitimate need for the workforce of employers. At the same time, they provide jobs to thousands of jobseekers every year. I have previously said that when I worked with recruiting in ASKO, before we got our own HR department, we used a rental agency to be able to get a workforce. Then we didn't have the systems up to the recruitment processes. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises, and some industries are completely dependent on manning companies. The lack of labour force today, for example, a proportion up to 33 pst. by the manning needs of the construction industry are met by rental. These are rentals from both organised recruitment agencies and sub-contracting prices. The former ensures Norwegian legislation and good pay and working conditions. It is much more difficult when rentals are made through sub-contracting, as several media matters have shown us. In this debate, I am uncertain whether the representative Grande is able to see the difference between these two. It's the small businesses that get hurt. When we travel around, we meet companies that have challenges with the new rental rules, because the contractions went too far. In particular, small craft enterprises are exposed. When we were visiting the West and talking to companies from the West and Voss areas, they told us that they chose not to enter into a collective agreement, as employees would have worse working conditions. Then they'd get an AFP scheme. AFP is a qualification scheme, and you have to be employed in the company to get the right to withdraw it. So you can get hurt when you change jobs. We have always said that we need better enforcement and supervision. What was discussed among us was whether it should be at the Dispute Resolution Department or at the Labour Inspectorate. We voted in favour and took the initiative to investigate this. I want to remind you again, it's been said a lot times, that it was Anniken Hauglie who went to the fight against zero-hour contracts. On 29 June 2017, a proposal was sent to the hearing. It also took the initiative to tighten up the rules on rental – a whole pile has been done, I have a list that I could frame up: seven centres against acrim, improved HMS cards, new IA agreements, etc. It's going to be a good idea to read it. But the 2015 Labour Crime Strategy came at record speed. I must commend both process and action. “I’m proud to be able to tell you what we’ve got,” said the LO leader and central board member of the Workers’ Party, Gerd Kristiansen. We don't want the manning industry to die, but we're going to keep working for a safe and decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e697	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e703	I expect the Council of State to notice what Mr Hagerup said – it was a dispute resolution topic that should be the alternative to the Labour Inspectorate. That's the only option that's been said here today, and now it's history, thank God for that. What the Central Party stands for is that ‘by law the country must be built and not be destroyed’, and that means that we must have clear legal rules to control and punish. And it's not least the small businesses that are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the That's our line, and we're going to keep going. To the Labour Party and to the representative of Arild Grande, there must be a misunderstanding, because in the case of proposals for decisions under A, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV are united that ‘§ 17-1 new fifth paragraph shall be replaced by:’ – so we agree on that. As I pointed out: that's what the Senter Party is for, and I expect the Workers' Party to vote for it. When, in addition, the Workers' Party maintains proposal No. 1, which is just a verbal proposal for the same reality, the Central Party must also vote for it, but it is completely unnecessary when we have the exact legislative proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e712	In this debate, I think there are several people who are suffering from what Kåre Willoch in his time called the'remembrance shift'. The representative Lundtigen said that the government parties rejected the fact that the Labour Inspectorate would follow up and supervise the rental regulations. As Mr Hagerup says, there was a debate about whether it should be left to the Labour Inspectorate or to the Dispute Resolution Department, and we were open about which way we would go. It has ended up with the Labour Inspectorate, and we are pleased with that. And to repeat myself, after the Solberg government joined, the fight against work-life crime has been considerably escalated, among other things. through these seven centres against labour crime, stricter penalties and higher fines for those who break laws and regulations, and requirements for apprentices on all construction projects for which public funds are paid. In addition, we proposed changes to the regulation of rentals and to introduce a ban on zero-hour contracts, which was not only a dissolved VG settlement, but culminated in Prop. 73 L for 2017-2018, and was dealt with in this room – memory shift. I would like to remind you that, in the context of the Storting’s treatment of this particular case, the Workers’ Party wrote in its comments that the proportion of renting and the use of zero-hour contracts increased significantly from the turn of the millennium, and in particular after the enlargement of the EU in 2004. So they sat for eight years without doing anything about it. The Labour Party dragged its legs and opposed the permitting arrangements for non-organised workers, voted against the evaluation and strengthening of the alert protection in the Working Environment Act, voted against allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to practise classified health notices, voted against better rights and follow-up of persons with paid care, and voted against the right of beneficiaries of social benefits to advance when Nav broke their procedural deadlines. This government has taken the crime of working life seriously from day one on and in addition introduced several rights, while the Labour Party has dragged its legs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e725	I'm recording that Heidi Nordby Lunde is more interested in talking about the snow that fell last year, or the snow that fell almost eight years ago, than talking about what's the challenge in working life today – that workers know about the body. It takes too long – and I don't have so long speaking time – if I'm going to go through all the points that Heidi Nordby Lunde is now rammed up in his mitral rush of words. However, I record that the work-life crime centres are the straws of the right-hand side to show what you've got. However, it is largely the Christian People's Party that has pushed in place through budgetary negotiations, not as a proposal from the current government. We have asked in each budget: what are the new measures promoted by the government to combat labour-life-criminalism – throughout the previous ageing period? And they have confirmed that no new measures have been announced by the government in this year's budget against crime at work and social dumping. It is the Christian People's Party through the budgetary negotiations that has been put in place. It is quite clear that the Right is struggling with its identity in this area. Margaret Hagerup manages to say in one piece that it was the Right who proposed the changes that are now under way, and at the same time point out how bad and difficult this is for the companies, and that it should never have actually been implemented. So what does the Right mean about today's rental rules? We've never really got an answer to that, except that they're trying to make money on their history of it, while they're really fighting it, and they're the best friend of the agencies. Finally, when the right-hand side stands on this pulpit and claims that everything is good in Norwegian working life, that the whole of the world of work is safe and fair, it is unfortunately told about a different reality in some companies in Norway. And we meet them: people who work in the construction industry, who strive with unprofessional actors, people who work in the craft industry, who are swept away by companies that can offer underprices – which are the subject of another proposal recently promoted by the Workers' Party, which we are going to discuss in this Chamber – and people in the industry, who notice the pressure on pay and working conditions through rent. The loyalty of the Labour Party will always be with the workers. And then the Right can stand here and say that everything is good in the workplace, but then they ignore the problems. The Working Party does not. We listen more to workers than to Right-wing representatives about how the working life looks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e738	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e755	This amendment is about changes to the Labour Dispute Act, Chapter 3, on Mediation, and Chapter 4, on Labour Law. In addition, it is proposed to include a definition in Chapter 1, the introductory provisions. More specifically, we are now considering proposals to clarify and harmonise the deadlines set out in Sections 18 and 19. We clarify the provision on professional secrecy and legislate the current practice in the relationship between the dispute law and the court law. It is also proposed to open up so that, in exceptional cases, labour law can be reinforced by additional value judges. In addition, we are now dealing with opening up the court with simplified composition, but the general rule that the court should be set up with seven judges is still standing. The Committee considers that these changes make the law more accessible to users and that a Joint Committee supports the amendments. But I would also like to make it clear that we note that in December 2018 the Ministry sent out proposals for further changes to its consultation note, but has chosen not to go further with some of those proposals. With that, I recommend the position that an overall committee is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e783	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e790	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on a matter that is important to many. We are growing older in Norway — several older people who also live longer. The ageing population also has an impact on the functioning and functioning of society. Over the last 100 years, the population has changed considerably, and the proportion of older people we know is increasing. Average life expectancy is now about 82.5 years, but there are more and more living longer, until they are both 90 and 100 years old. I myself, as rapporteur, had the pleasure of participating in the celebration of several 100 birthdays, the last one was the 100-year-old who drove mopeds to the store. About 1.2 million Northers today are over 60 years old. This development means that all municipalities have more older inhabitants. At the same time, health studies and life-cycle studies show that older people today have better functioning and have better self-experienced health than before, although many of them have chronic diseases. It is important that we now put in place an elderly representative, an elderly representative who will promote the interests of all the elderly and be a visible voice in public space, regardless of the current policy and social structure. An important part of the role of the Elder Ombudsman is to raise issues and be a voice for those groups facing challenges directly or indirectly linked to age. If the Elder Ombudsman is to be able to fulfil his or her task of being a societally critical voice to address challenges and contribute to positive change, the Elder Ombudsman must be able to express his or her opinion freely. The Progress Party has been working to establish senior representatives for a long time. Today, therefore, is a joyous day. Already in 2007, Carl I. Hagen, Siv Jensen and Harald T. Nesvik promoted a representative proposal on behalf of the Progress Party to ‘ensure a warm, optional and dignified elderly care that shines’. This proposal included, inter alia: the importance of setting up an elderly representative. So it took 13 years. I am here today, 1 June 2020, and I am proud that this is a reality for all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e801	The President will point out that it is June 2nd, but has nothing else to postpone.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e806	Today it went quickly, and the printer was empty of paper, so now I'm going to try to take this after memory. I would like to start by saying that we are pleased that the proposal for a law on elderly agents that we are dealing with today has a different framework than the one originally submitted by the government. The Workers' Party was skeptical in its time for the Elder Ombudsman to collide with the Patient and User Ombudsman. There are several reasons for this, and several of the hearing parties have also been sceptical about such a merger. Older people are not just patients, and older people's policies are about much more than care for the elderly. The Workers' Party supports the proposal for the organisation of the Elder Ombudsman as it is today. It is good to get an elderly representative who is based on the Children’s Ombudsman, so that the Elder Ombudsman can be a voice across social areas, and that the Elder Ombudsman can be both a driver of elderly policy and a watchman in society. The Working Party shares the concerns of the rest of the Opposition, SV and the Centre Party as regards the fact that the Sami has not been specifically cared for. We believe that there should have been a clearer place in the legislative proposal that is now available, and we have made a proposal in this regard, which I am now considering.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e817	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e822	Once this law has been passed, we will be able to check that another goal set out in the Government Declaration has been achieved. It has been important for the government and the Right to establish an elderly representative to care for the interests of an increasingly large group of people. With increasing life expectancy, we get a growing population who need assistance and help from the public. Norway has at least ten different representatives to take care of us citizens in all situations of life. With the creation of an elderly representative, this phase of life will be preserved in an even better way than in the past. It is important for us in the Right to strengthen and promote the situation and equivalency of the elderly, as we have shown through a number of big messages and action plans, not least through the quality reform Lifelong, which is to increase the quality of all municipalities through, among other things. sharing of experience and knowledge. It's good to live in Norway. We are privileged to live in one of the world's best countries, which has an abundance of natural resources that have made it possible to develop welfare services other countries envy us. There are also a number of challenges in Norway, not least for smaller groups that may fall outside such good systems and services. Several population groups experience that their specific challenges are increasing and more difficult with increasing age. We know, for example. that some homosexuals and lesbians go into the closet again when they get to a nursing home, and we know that demented immigrants lose the Norwegian language and go back to their native language. These were just two small examples showing that there is a need for an independent social voice for the elderly. After all, it's all the small groups in society that need an independent voice of society first and foremost. The rest of us always come up and get attention to our interests. It is important that the Elder Ombudsman acquires good competence in the Sami ethnic groups. Samer has many challenges that separate them from ethnic Northmen, challenges that require knowledge and understanding of their history and culture. When they are not specifically mentioned in the law, it is because it would violate the systematics of the law as a general law that will help promote the interests of all older people. The Elder Ombudsman is given an important task where they include: shall seek to raise awareness of the needs of the elderly, be a speaker and an actor who can put the interests of the elderly on the agenda. Not least the driving role of the ombudsman becomes important. The parental representative is given an important task of making Norway an even better age-friendly society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e835	In this case, we are some about the need to raise the voice of the elderly in society, but the Central Party has not previously supported the creation of an own elderly community because we have believed that existing schemes, such as the equality and discrimination environment, the patient and user environment, municipal and county councils of elderly people and the Civilombudsman, can carry out the same tasks and functions as the new elderly community. But when we're about to establish a new old manhood, of course, we want it to be the societally critical voice of the elderly who are in the process of being intentional, and we support the organization outlined by the government. In this setting, we have been busy with the recording we received from Sametinget. It is mentioned in the proposition, but it has not entered the legal formula itself. The merger has sought clarification of Sámi's interests in the legal text itself. In our view, there are many reasons why one should do it. Clearly, the Eldreum bid should be an order for the Sami elderly as well. They face additional challenges in a number of ways, especially in response to health services, and there is a great need to have a mandate that can address the linguistic and cultural challenges of Sami older people. In the proposal, the government writes that mentioning it in the legal text itself will rock at the owner's discretion. There I'm fundamentally disagreed. You can't care less about the Sami elderly and their needs with other elderly and other needs. In this setting, a Joint Committee shall indicate that the interests and needs of the Sami elderly are to be different from those of the Sami elderly. It is also allowed in the Constitution. This is something completely different, and it can't be compared to anything else. I don't mean that this is mentioned in the legal text, is a part of rocking at the self-portrait of the estate. I'm glad that at least the red-green parties are involved in making that change in the paragraph, and could have wished that this had got more today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e844	I'm glad we can finally get senior agents. We have adopted many good rights on the Storting. I'm worried that many older people don't get the rights we've decided they should have. We have a big problem with those who understand the system, those who have friends and family who can help, getting more rights than others. It is unfair that many do not get the rights they are entitled to. We shouldn't need elders, but we need them now. For many years SV has proposed the monitoring of the human rights situation in the care of the elderly. The parties in the Right-wing Government and the Advance Party and the Workers' Party voted against it. I hope the Elder Ombudsman will do the job that these parties have not done. We need to identify what is happening to improve the situation for all the elderly. In March 2018, I asked the Minister of Older People when the law on the elderly was due to come. The councils said as soon as possible. Two years and three months are not ‘as soon as possible’, but late is better than never. Finally, we can get an elderly representative when the Progress Party is out of government. Sami language and culture have been and are still under pressure from the big society. It is important for the Elder Ombudsman to have Sami linguistic and cultural competence. I refer to the Basic Law § 108, which says that the state should facilitate the conditions for the Sami peoples' group to secure its language and culture. The size should follow the advice of the Sametinget. SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposes that Section 2 be amended to provide the Elder's Ombudsman with Sami linguistic and cultural competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e857	I just want to point out first to the representative Wilkinson that the Progress Party outside or inside the government has not been decisive for whether the Elder Ombudsman was now in place. It is not because the Progress Party has left the government that we now have this case for treatment in Stortinget. This is part of the agreement in Granavolden, which the entire government is behind, and which we now have for treatment in Stortinget. More and more of us live longer and become part of the group older. It's good, but it's quick done that health care services as well as the only thing in society we think is relevant to the elderly. That's wrong. For many years, several groups in society have had their own representatives who care for their interests. Now that older people form an increasingly large group, it is important that they too are given a representative who is specifically responsible for the care of their interests. Meeting society at system level is demanding for most of us, so knowing that someone is looking after is reassuring. The Children’s Ombudsman has been a good example of follow-up when the Elder Ombudsman is now established. It is true, as many have pointed out, that in the Committee's work on this matter there is also a meeting with the Co-decision Council. We have noticed that the Council of Consensus has recorded that the ombudsman system must also take care of the Sami elderly in Norway, and that this requires special competence in Sami matters, language and culture. I would like to say for myself that it is a prerequisite that that knowledge is also a knowledge of the Elder Ombudsman, in order for the Elder Ombudsman to be an agent for all older people in Norway. Older people are a diverse group. We have hobbies and interests about as long as we live. Therefore, a diversity of activities and services in society is important to talk about, including from the perspective of the elderly. Current and, not least, future older people will be even healthier longer and thus want to participate in all society's more than before. We want a society where all groups can participate for as long as they want, and therefore it is important that there is a decisive premise throughout the government's work on setting up an Senior Ombudsman, that the Elder Ombudsman has the right to speak in all areas of society relevant to the elderly, i.e. the vast majority. I look forward to getting even more of that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e870	The fact that the Stortinget today deals with the law on the Elder Ombudsman marks a milestone in the policy of the elderly. Many older people, especially among the elderly, don't like to complain, they won't be bothered, and they rarely go into protest trains. Older people are a diverse group, and everyone can experience discrimination and marginalisation, including the resource-intensive. When offers and services do not work or when an age-discriminatory comment such as ‘OK Boomer’ is received, older people withdraw. The parental ombudsman is an important contribution to a more age-friendly Norway. We need the resources and participation of the elderly, not only for the sustainability of society, but also for the quality of life of the elderly. With the Elder Ombudsman, our older people get an independent vote for their interests in all areas of society. As the department worked on the bill, there was clear feedback that the law should be simple and not go into detail about what an older representative is going to do. It was also an important signal that the law should not define who is older and not point to specific groups of older people. The government has based on the experience of other ombudsmen when we have proposed how the Elder Ombudsman should work. The Ombudsman shall himself choose matters, subject matter and form of work and shall be able to deal with matters on his own initiative or following enquiries from others. The personal representative of the elderly is proposed for six years, as are the other agents. In order to facilitate the work, it is also necessary to establish a separate office, the Elder Ombudsman. In the hearing there was a great deal of support for this provision of the bill. In order to achieve the setting-up of senior citizens by 2020, as requested by the majority of the population, the Ministry has also prepared the new agency, the Elder Ombudsman. The government therefore has, subject to the treatment of the Stortinget Act, Bente Lund Jacobsen as its first senior agent. The government has decided to add the new business outside Oslo, to Ålesund, in line with our regional policy objectives. The Elder Ombudsman will be co-located with the Centre for an Age-Friendly Norway, which will provide a strong occupational environment. With the new law and the establishment of a new establishment, we provide the basis for an independent and powerful senior representative. I look forward to the opening in Ålesund until the fall, and I am delighted to follow the activities of the Elder Ombudsman on behalf of today's older and future generations older.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e891	There have been questions as to whether or not the only matter that has been discussed in the committee is whether or not the Sami culture and language should be defined by law. This is important. The Committee has been on its way to committee, and we know that very many Sami elderly people are both marginalised and discriminated against, as the Council of State is talking about in its contribution. It seems that it takes a very long time before, for example. the healthcare system provides the services they need. I have respect for the fact that this does not come into the law. But what will the Minister of Health do to provide the Sami elderly with a service and a service that allows them to receive services and meet them in their own language?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e896	Norway is a country with two people, and it's at the bottom of everything we do. We've been busy, precisely in connection with this law, not having an identification of different groups of the elderly, but that it's older than the group that's the Ombudsman's office, which I was also in my post. But it is quite obvious that the Elder Ombudsman will also work with older people from the Sami population, and with the special challenges they face. Then we have further strengthened the Patient and User Ombudsman in connection with the establishment of a national Patient and User Ombudsman. So it's also set of means and made clarifications that they're going to work especially with Sami issues. The more specific issues that individuals experience in the service are then discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e903	I have the same question: Sami language and culture have been and are still under pressure from the big community. It is important for the Elder Ombudsman to have Sami linguistic and cultural competence. Why does the government not want to follow the advice of the Sameting to get it into the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e908	This is to the extent that I said recently, that we have chosen to have a law that is about older people and not to have an identification of different groups of older people. As I also said, all the policies in Norway are based on Norway being a country with two people and that we should take care of the Sami interests. It will, of course, be important for this ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e915	When I asked the Minister in March 2018, the Senior Minister said that the law would come as soon as possible. Why was it so late?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e920	This was as soon as possible. We have now also been concerned that, in parallel with the fact that the Storting has dealt with the law, we have prepared the implementation of the Ombudsman, precisely for not losing time. So now the ombudsman is also appointed to the Council of State and can immediately start an important work on building this new establishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e925	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e944	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e951	Let me start by thanking the Committee for the smooth handling of this matter. Today, we are taking a position on some minor changes in the alcohol law. The Government has proposed – a majority in the Committee – to shift the opening hours of the Vinmonopole on Saturdays and days before public holidays, except for the Ascension Day of Christ. Furthermore, a similar shift is proposed for the time of delivery of privately imported alcoholic beverages. It is also proposed that a limited derogation from the general rule that both sales and gift permits may not be granted in the same locality, as well as an amendment to ensure that public authorities continue to have access to confidentiality-related information from the Folkeregistrier when necessary, in the context of the authorisation rules. Today, the monopoly of wine may be open between noon. 8.30 and 15 on Saturdays and days before public holidays. The majority of the Committee will now adjust the framework for permitted opening hours, i.e. the frameworks, not the exact opening hours. This is according to the Granavolden platform. The new framework for opening hours on Saturdays and days before public holidays is thus – with the exception of Christ’s Ascension Day – from 9.00 p.m. 10 to 10 o'clock. 16th@item: inlistbox These changes come as a follow-up to the Granavolden platform. The wine monopoly in Norway survives year after year, among others. because it meets people's expectations of the wine monopoly. The wine monopoly has a high reputation, and this good reputation is important for us to take care of. In its consultation response, the Vinmonopolet emphasises precisely this, that the legitimacy of the Vinmonopolet in the population is linked to the match between customer expectations for service and the service actually provided to customers. This also implies that opening hours are adapted to the behaviour of customers, within the framework of the alcohol policy mission. The patterns of behaviour in the population have changed. The proposal that the pole can be kept open until noon. 16 reflects our behavior. At the same time, the main lines of today's alcohol policy are fixed. It also means that the purpose of the alcohol law is not changed. We will continue to limit the social and individual harm that alcohol use can cause. We also simplify the system for the donation and sale of alcohol for breweries. It could mean too many small players around the country. We see that the interest in Norwegian silk and beer tradition is growing, and then we have to look at simpler frameworks for these as well. It can contribute to better conditions for both agriculture and tourism around the country, while setting clear conditions for sales from the same premises where donations are offered. The municipalities continue to be responsible for granting a sales permit. Finally, as rapporteur of the case, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a minority comment in the vote from the Progress Party, which gives the impression that network actors such as colonial.no deliver alcohol via collection points, for example. at refuelling stations. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘Colonial.no may also supply beer via kiosks and service stations — the same outlets which prohibit the marketing of the same product.’ That doesn't lead to correctness. All wholesalers with authorisation and online commerce are able to deliver low percentages of alcohol products, but handovers are only made directly to the orderer and where age control is carried out. So this comment is wrong and gives a crazy description of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e973	There are two things that are important to point out in today's debate. First of all, the wine monopoly works very well, and we're going to be proud of our way of selling both wine and spirits compared to most other countries. I would particularly like to bring out the employees, who in an exemplary way have managed to go from being a barrier staff, where one was an order maker, to becoming a service staff, as a supervisor and with professional pride contribute to good experiences, hopefully for most customers. Secondly, for the wine monopoly to have integrity in the entire population, it is also important that they have opening hours that make it easy to be a customer of just them. The fact that today we change the opening time for Saturdays and the day before the holiday with an hour longer in the afternoon is such a change that helps maintain the legitimacy of the monopoly. However, I would like to make it clear that this is an extension of the opening hours, so that political authority should and should follow the development of consumption. It is a political goal that we do not drink more alcohol, but are the moderation and have a healthy relationship with it. There may be someone in this room who would disagree with me and say that with the change of the day from noon. 8.30 a.m. to 15 p.m. 10 to 16 is a 30 minute opening time restriction on Saturdays. But that's wrong. In fact, there's almost no wine monopoly that opens at noon. 8.30 on Saturdays. Most wine monopolies are now in malls and they open at noon. 10, so there's an expansion today's government opens up for. This expansion has met with scepticism in both the Trade and the Office and the leading representatives of the Vinmonopolet. That scepticism is understandable, and it's noticed. The employees get an hour more on the weekend and the period of free time is reduced. However, the Labour Party is of the opinion that these changes are in line with time and maintain the legitimacy of the scheme – and will vote in favour of today’s changes. We believe, however, that there is reason to point out that we want to see with great scepticism whether a person wants to further change the opening hours in the future, even though no one can predict the future. With this, I address the proposal that the Workers' Party and others are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e986	The representative Hege Haukeland Liadal then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e991	It's okay enough that the government wants to shift the opening time at the Vinmonopolet so they can have opened an hour longer on Saturday afternoon, but it's very close to what Norway needs. The alcohol law needs to be modernised on several points. The research team believes that grocery stores must be allowed to sell alcohol throughout the opening hours of the store and that it is the municipality that decides where alcohol is to be sold. That is why we are proposing this. The Progress Party also proposes that the Vinmonopolet should be given the right to freedom of establishment. Today, local authorities are in charge and decide which premises the Vinmonopolet should use in the municipality, and this is unnecessary. The research team believes that food shops must be allowed to sell alcohol throughout the opening hours of the store, because it is hopeless for consumers to keep track of what this is like from day to day. On Saturday, it was Pentecost. That's when the beer sale closed at 1:00. 16, but on Saturdays, it's 4:00 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox On 1 May it is not allowed to sell beer, no matter what day it falls on. Wednesday before Thursday, the beer sale closes at 4 p.m. 18, while the other Wednesdays are at 6 p.m. 20. Christmas Day is closed. Christmas Day is closed. The day before public holidays, beer sales close at 4 p.m. 16, except for the day before 1 May, then there are common times for beer sales, and except 16 May, then there are also so-called common times. But on May 17th, it's closed, and then you have to go to the restaurant. This could have been easier. The progress party therefore proposes that the shops be allowed to sell beer throughout the opening hours of the store. It will provide a simpler overview for consumers, avoids queues and confusion around the closing time for beer sales, and – strictly speaking – it is the only sensible thing to do here. Today it is not allowed to market beer with the brewery's logo. Then you have to find a new name and a new logo. The progress party believes that it is good that more and more people are looking forward to buying non-alcoholic beer. We as society should make it even easier for producers to market and sell non-alcoholic beer. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to allow the marketing of non-alcoholic beer. Beer is an important part of Norwegian cultural heritage. This year we invite all the Norwegians to add their summer vacation to Norway, go up in the mountains to pick up a fresh one, join a firehouse when the ebony is used as a mesmerising water, sit on a sheep skin around the copper boiler that smells of one, paint and fire, experience the warmth and atmosphere around the fireplace, the good stories that are told while the beer boils for five hours to develop the full, sweet and caramelized taste, experience the taste of genuine Norwegian traditional beer, kee-breed, or travel to a fishing ram on the Helgeland coast and buy the world's northern whisky, the Myken distillery has won international recognition for its quality products, but they are not allowed to tell about it to anyone, or to Grimstad, the Southland's pearl with both archipelago, sun and great tour experiences. The Norwegian Brenneri in Grimstad also organizes a festival. They won five gold medals last year in one of the world's most prestigious brandy competitions, but they're not allowed to tell anyone about it. I refer to the eight proposals of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1006	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1011	When we listen to the previous talk, one would think that alcohol is a very common commodity to sell in Norway. It's not, and that's why we have a law, and now suggests a change to this law – both to shift the opening hours of the Vinmonopoly and to make an exception to the general rule that there can't be both sales and donations in the same locality, and some other subsequent changes to it. It is important to establish that the purpose of the laws we are dealing with today is the basis for the social and individual harms that alcohol use can bring, but it is also a clear objective of the law to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. It should not be a belief when a person hears a part of what is said in the debate. So he's the foundation of health and social policy, and I'm glad that a joint committee is behind such a formulation in the vote. The problem with what is proposed today is not set separately. Most of the audio recordings show that this does not count as leading to significant changes in alcohol consumption. The problem is that several adjustments in alcohol legislation in the liberalising direction over the last few years contribute to increased availability and alcohol consumption. Some hearing bodies stated that the changes brought together contributed to threatening the consistency of Norwegian alcohol policy. There have been several changes in the alcohol policy that have been in the liberalising direction since 2013: an increase in the tax-free quota for wine; the wine monopoly may be open on New Year's Eve; Easter Eve and Pentecost; a softening of the advertising ban; and a less stringent control regime. None of the decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party in 2018 have been followed up: not the labelling of alcohol, not the decision on warning labelling of alcohol, not the setting up of a public selection to assess social costs. We haven't seen any changes to the tax-free quota that were signed, we haven't yet got the alcohol strategy, which the majority of people actually voted against the Right-front party government, and we haven't seen anything more of the fact that the Vinmonopolis was going to take over the tax-free regime with this government. We are calling for a strategy that should have come before even more adjustments to the law, because this is beginning to resemble the fact that the purpose of the alcohol laws is not followed up. So we want the strategy to come to Stortinget. We don't get to have multiples for that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1022	I refer to good conversations with Trade and Office, which organizes those who work at the Vinmonopolet. This expansion of opening hours will lead to pressure on those working in the Vinmonopole. They must be even longer at work on weekends and before the holidays. SV supports several of the changes, but SV will vote against changing the opening hours since employees are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1029	I've listened to the speeches, and especially the article from the Advancement Party and that alcohol story, and it's kind of like listening to a story about brewing beer in the sunset, where everything is just nice and just fun. One does not at all take into account that this also has a backside for very many people – individuals, families, children and adults. That is why I am pleased that the Norwegian alcohol policy is not based on the alcohol policy of the Progress Party, but is based on health and social policy considerations and that it should continue to be so. It is important that there are are arenas in society where there is no perceived pressure to drink alcohol to participate. In the Granavolden Declaration, the parties to the Government have agreed on the amendments adopted today. The existing sales and gift periods are fixed. It is suggested that the local right of self-determination and alcohol law be continued. And each local government itself has the opportunity to make decisions that best suit its local environment in view of the giving and selling times in its municipality. It is a well-known fact that advertising affects what we think about products and our tendency to buy them. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is upholding the ban on advertising and believes that it is an important part of a society that does not have an unnecessary alcohol pressure. And in the announced alcohol strategy coming to the harvest, there is particularly cooperation with social partners and sports that is important. Being part of a college at work that also provides a social community is important to most of us, and more people feel that not drinking alcohol excludes from these social arenas — and that is something we need to avoid. Increased awareness among all parties about the importance of non-alcoholic arenas is important to achieve this. The same applies to sport, where it is important to have good dialogue in the future, including: with NFF, which has opened for alcohol use on football arenas. I hear that is criticism, especially against the Christian People's Party, because we have been involved in what is called the liberalisation of the alcohol law. These are adjustments, but they are also – I am going to be honest – adjustments that have not been proposed by the Christian People's Party, but that we, in agreement with the government parties, promote for the Stortinget. Opening hours — yes, it is possible that alcohol sales may increase slightly an hour between hours. 15 and 16, but nevertheless Christian People's Party believes this is something you can agree to, not least because we are concerned about ringing the wine monopoly and making sure that the opening hours are also in line with the opening hours where the wine monopoly is established today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1047	The legislative proposal follows up two points in the Granavolden platform. One is to move the opening hours of the Wine Monopoly on Saturdays; the other is to allow municipalities to grant sales and donations to the same premises in relation to the place of manufacture. I want to make it clear that the government's alcohol policy is firm, as it is clarified in the Granavolden platform. The proposal involves only minor adjustments. The monopoly system is an important element of Norwegian alcohol policy and, in order to maintain the system, it must have support and confidence in the population. This means that the monopoly of wine must evolve in line with society's expectations and needs. As a result of changes in consumer behaviour and in order to maintain the monopoly opening, the government proposes to shift the opening time on Saturdays to 10am to 16pm. Today the opening time is 8.30–15.00. It is the wine monopoly that has to decide which and how many sales are to be open until 4 p.m. Today, breweries and other alcoholic beverage producers may be granted a sales and donation permit in relation to the place of manufacture, but both sales and donations are prohibited for the same premises. These shall be kept separately for the purpose of verifying the appropriations by the authorities. For manufacturers with small premises, this requirement may be difficult to meet and there may be a special need for exemptions. The Government has therefore proposed a limited exemption from the sale and donation ban in the same locality. The proposal is limited to the sales authorisation of self-produced goods and goods not covered by the exclusive right of the Vinmonopoly to sell. It will continue to be up to the granting authority in each municipality if they wish to have such a scheme and if they can allow the sale and donation in the same locality for control purposes. There is no obligation for municipalities to allow this. The Committee mentions several aspects of alcohol policy and legislation, in addition to those resulting from the legislative proposal. I would repeat that the government will continue the main lines of today's alcohol policy and that the proposal only involves adjustments within these lines. I can inform you that the government has started working on a national alcohol strategy, and anyone who wants it can make recordings by 15 June. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposal for a legal basis for the licensing authority to obtain the necessary information from the public register. This is, in my view, a necessary addition that is important for the proper implementation of the tasks of the authorising authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1067	I am pleased with the Council's response to the Storting today that work on a national alcohol strategy is in progress. However, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State what is the reason why one has not followed up other decisions taken in this Chamber. I can mention, for example: content labelling, warning marking, decision to reduce a public sample and the social costs of alcohol consumption — or, where appropriate, tax-free allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1072	The fact that one has not implemented any of these decisions does not mean that they have not been followed up. Some of them require more work than others and are related to EU legislation. Then, every year in the state budget, we reciprocate a status for these decisions. As I've said, now we're working on an alcohol strategy, and it's open for recording until June 15th.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1077	Colonial.no has addressed the Health Directorate in order to clarify how to interpret the delivery from the service station. In a letter dated 25 February 2015, the Health Directorate replied that the alcohol law does not have any specific rules on how to deliver alcohol via online shops. The Directorate also stated that they do not see that the delivery of pre-ordered goods from a service station differs significantly from other delivery methods. It is therefore concluded in the letter from the Health Directorate that it is entirely legitimate for online shops to have delivery at kiosks and gas stations, even though the Right in posts does not want to admit it earlier. Then my question to the Minister of Health about the Minister of Health himself has sent out other answers to colonial.no or other online shops in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1084	I have not sent any other answers, but what is valid is that this should be done correctly. One shall have delivery points which are in line with the alcohol law and one shall be subject to age control. There shall not be a system whereby a snufferer sells alcohol at service stations and kiosks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1089	Then I understand to the health minister that it is still fully legal for colonial.no to deliver alcoholic beverages with delivery point at e.g. kiosk and service station, as long as they ensure that the other rules of the alcohol law, such as age control, are implemented. Does the Minister of Health see the logical lack that gas stations can be fully responsible for delivering alcoholic beverages as long as it is ordered from another actor, but is not allowed to deliver it themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1096	That was what I had in mind in my answer. This shall not be, as the representative stands, an attempt to make a logical defect in the alcohol law. Therefore, it should not be such that this is a breakpoint for the sale of alcohol in gas stations and kiosks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1101	But it is legal for colonial.no and other online dealers to deliver alcoholic beverages at a gas station. The Minister of Health answered that in the first question — that is legal. The Health Directorate has given a letter to colonial.no that this is law. To just clarify this line change: Is it lawful, or isn't it allowed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1108	I did not reply as to whether it was lawful or not. The representative's question was whether I had sent out a letter that it was not allowed. That was the representative's question. The representative referred to a letter from the Health Directorate that I am not familiar with, and if the representative wants my interpretation of the letter from the Health Directorate, she must almost ask a written question about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1113	In Norway, alcohol is the drug that has the most negative health consequences and social consequences. In a research article where one had looked at the drinking habits in 200 countries, Norway ended up in second place, only shutting down Denmark. In Norway, we have NOUs on drugs and politics, but when it's about alcohol, it's been a long time since we've had a superior NOU, not as I can think. We don't get a strategy for Stortinget either. For many single cases that go in one direction alone, it is not that worrying, but together, there are several that respond, among other things. in audio recordings for what is happening. Does the Council not see the need to bring an overarching case to the Grand Council on the development of the alcohol policy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1119	First of all, it's not that a NOU necessarily leads to a big message coming to the Stortinget. Secondly, strategies that we've said we're going to make are not usually promoted for the Storting. Then it's probably my opinion that with regard to the social consequences of alcohol and alcohol consumption, they're very well documented. It's kind of not where the main challenges lie. What is important is to continue to have a broad connection with the main lines of alcohol policy, which are based both on the idea that we should have a solidarity policy on alcohol, and to protect those who are particularly vulnerable, but also on an alcohol policy integrated into public health policy, which also looks at the health consequences of the overall consumption of alcohol in the population. It's probably the last bit that's the biggest challenge to get a broad enough acceptance for, that it's necessary to have strict regulation to take care of the whole population in terms of alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1126	There's a problem in my view that in this particular area, when there's a drug that has so much societal implications, they're missing out on the issue in the Storting. It's true that a NOW isn't necessarily the solution to everything, and it won't always be followed up with a big message, but in the last six years we've got more things going on that promise change, but we haven't got a whole thing. Now we don't get a strategy for Stortinget either. Governments have said several times today that it is open for recording until 15 June. Do you want me to send a tape to the Health Directorate as a staging representative? That's pretty special. Doesn't the Council of State see the need to anchor what's going to happen further in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1131	I believe that the policy that the government is pursuing in this area is anchored in the Storting through public health communication in the same way as tobacco policy. One does not have its own big message on tobacco policy, but tobacco is the main explanation of social inequality in Norway. The Communication on Public Health provides leadership both for alcohol policy and for tobacco policy, which we follow up. In addition, of course, we follow up what is the government's platform in this area. So, of course, the Storting always has the opportunity to both make proposals and have different views on alcohol policy, but I perceive that there is very broad political support for the main lines of alcohol policy as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1136	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1143	Today’s alcohol law is full of logical flaws, and now it became clear that the Minister of Health has not been aware of it either. That's interesting. When adults, for example: enter a pub or bar, they are fully aware that alcohol is sold there. Probably that's the very reason they're going there. Behind the bar counter they can see rows and rows of bottles marked with logo and text about what they contain. But if one of the employees wears a fill of brewer's logo, they'll be punished for it. If they wear a T-shirt with alcohol marks, they will be punished for it. A restaurant here in Oslo was even asked to remove a work of art inside the restaurant because empty wine bottles as collector's items were viewed as advertisements. It is unnecessary for the State to lay down rigid rules and detailed rules on where the logo of an alcoholic must stand and not be in a bar. Therefore, we propose to allow the marketing of alcohol/alcoholic marks inside the tipping point. Norway’s largest wine monopoly is located in Sweden. Swedish authorities budget with commercial leakage from Norway. We do not think that is necessary in the Progress Party. It should be in our interest to ensure that food trade takes place in Norway and strengthens Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. In order to avoid unnecessary border trade and smuggling, the Progress Party proposes that taxes on alcohol be reduced to the same level as in our neighbouring country. I need to clarify a little after the line change here with the Health Minister, and then I ask him to look up a letter from the Health Directorate, dated 25 February 2015. I read: Delivery from refuelling stations cannot initially be considered to increase the availability of alcohol compared to other delivery purposes. Therefore, the conclusion is that the alcohol regulation does not prevent the delivery of pre-ordered alcohol from a service station. Although the representative of Sveinung Stensland initially needed to say that our comment related to this was wrong, I believe it is close at least to presenting this letter from the Health Directorate, where it is stated that they believe that the conclusion is exactly as we in the Progress Party have pointed out. It is a logical flaw that colonial.no and other online dealers are today allowed to supply alcohol at gas stations, and that gas stations are allowed to deliver it to the customer, while gas stations are not allowed to sell the goods themselves. It is time to properly review the alcohol law and make sure that it is modernised in view of the society in which Norway lives, i.e. the 2020s and not the 1900s.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1163	In recent times, there has been a review of a puzzle in Norwegian industrial policy, namely the term ‘polkö’, which we have experienced for the first time in never so many years. So you might think that this leads someone to think that we should go back to that time, but to me it illustrates some of the legitimacy of today's alcohol legislation, which is represented by the Vinmonopolet. I am proud of the position of the Vinmonopolet in Norwegian society. I'm proud of internal training, which I haven't seen my husband anywhere. I have to admit that I have bought alcohol abroad – I rarely experience good contact with customers and that knowledge elsewhere in terms of objective information about alcohol. The ban on alcohol advertising builds up under this legitimacy, there can be no doubt about it. So it's important to maintain the legitimacy of the wine monopoly. So the Progress Party gives the impression that this is a question of freedom, that is, that there is freedom to buy alcohol, freedom to get alcohol where you want it. I'd like to problem it and say that freedom is about so much more than freedom to, it's also about freedom from. It's about freedom from disease, it's about freedom from addiction, it's about freedom from being met by alcohol wherever you turn around, whether it's at sports events or around public places. Alcohol is undoubtedly our most dangerous drug. There's no doubt about it. International surveys show this. It's necessary to build up under the strategy that says we're going to have 10 pst by 2025. reducing harmful alcohol consumption. It is important for the Left, and we believe that this amendment to the alcohol law is a good balancing of health and business policies. Then I have to say that I do not understand this mass from the Advance Party in terms of turnover from gas stations. Now it's about to end at gas stations. What is the Progress Party going to talk about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1174	The changes in the alcohol law take care of our system of the wine monopoly. In this case, no one can say that a bourgeois majority challenges this strange scheme. The law includes, inter alia: the intention to adapt the activities of the wine monopoly to the changes in our pattern of action. This is the offset of opening times is about: changing to preserve. I am therefore surprised that SV is the only party in the committee that opposes the proposal that the Vinmonopole should postpone the opening time on Saturdays from 9.00 p.m. 08.30 to 08.30 10 a.m. and postpone the closing time from 10 a.m. 15 to 15 o'clock. 16th@item: inlistbox In addition to being an adjustment, it's half an hour shorter opening time. Then I ask myself whether it is not that SV will keep the population uplifted about the wine monopoly by adapting the opening hours to the life we live today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1179	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1184	This is not just about freedom; it is about simplification to a large extent – it is about being able to raise Norwegian entrepreneurs who produce quality products and get international recognition for it. They must be given the opportunity to tell about, tell about a quality product produced in Norway, with Norwegian labour force and with Norwegian resources. This does not increase alcohol consumption — it leads to better drinking, no more drinking. When Christian People's Party Geir Jørgen Bekkewold talks about how important it is to drink non-alcoholic beer, at least I don't understand why not the Christian People's Party can support that alcohol-free beer can be marketed. Alcohol is a legal product in Norway, at least we have to remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1193	The debate on substance is closed. 6 goes on after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1205	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1–5 on today’s map, then case 12, Unit, before the debate continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1217	During the debate, Heidi Nordby Lunde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1388	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: the second sentence of Section 12 is replaced by the following: The Ministry may prescribe a lower degree of compensation than that resulting from the fifth paragraph of Section 3.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1408	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1418	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I In line with the request decision No. 395 [[2019-2020]] II The government is asking the government to propose a supplement to Section 2 of the temporary law on compensation benefits for self-employed and freelancers who have lost income as a result of an outbreak of covid-19. Personnel income from industry or assignment of more than 0,75 times the basic amount of population benefit in the last 36 months is set as a requirement for minimum income in terms of benefits. [[G]] III The government is asked to ensure that no double curtailment is made for persons who have been granted two living allowances at the same time during the same period of time in the event of simultaneous work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1439	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1458	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, asks how a government staffing pool for industry can be set up and come back to Stortinget with proposals to that effect.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1490	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a ban on the general rental of labour from crew companies, in order to allow renting only in the event of real temporary employment needs or renting between production companies.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1507	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 18 to 5 of the new third paragraph are replaced by the following: In the case of hiring-in by the employee under Sections 14 to 12 and 14 to 12 obligations, the lessee undertakes to draw up written documentation on the firm's assessment of the legality of the lease and that the equal treatment rules under Sections 14 to 12 (a) are fulfilled. [[3]] [[1]] [[2]] The documentation shall be kept prior to the commencement of the lease-in and then kept for three years. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the requirement for documentation, availability and storage.» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1530	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the reintroduction of collective actions against the illegal hiring of labour.’ The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1618	The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-12 and the fifth paragraph of Section 17-1 are added. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1633	Has anyone voted wrong? It's nodding. We're going to vote again. There are still a lot of people who have not registered their voice. Then we have to restart the watering system. We have to have a proper feeding. The meeting took a break at 3:08 p.m. The vote continued at 5 p.m. 15,17.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1645	Then we go on and vote manually. The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-12 and the fifth paragraph of Section 17-1 are added. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1661	The remainder of II and I, III and IV under A shall be counted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1671	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1681	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set: B. I The government is asked to come back with a proposal for a new provision in Section 18-5 of the Working Environment Act to provide written proof of compliance with the legislation on renting and non-discrimination when hiring workers. II The government is asked to draw up a report on the creation of individual enterprises among migrant workers. III The government is asked to set up a register of foreign service providers in Norway according to the model of the Danish RUT register. IV The government is asked to carry out an overall evaluation and monitoring of developments in the deregulation of rentals in Norway. Such an evaluation should address the evolution and extent of different industries, employment, working environment conditions, proportion of own employees versus rent, skills development, recruitment/ apprentices, level of organisation, productivity development, participation, Nav's role as employment services, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1706	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1719	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a public investigation to identify the available workforce in Norway, the long-term labour demand, the development of skills necessary and how the employment service is to be built up for full employment, in cooperation with the social partners.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party has notified subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1956	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1966	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e1978	During the debate, Mr Moflag put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: The Management Board shall be chaired by an Senior Official. The parental representative as a management body shall have Sami linguistic and cultural competence. The Elder Ombudsman shall be appointed by the King of State Council on an annual basis for a period of six years without access to re-nomination.» The Committee had decided to adopt the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2129	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 2 and proposal 1 of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party vote. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2143	It is then votered over the rest of Section 2 and other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2153	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2163	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2245	The cancellation then goes back to the examination of case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2264	I have a line for the Progress Party, for this debate on changing the alcohol laws has been special. In Norway, alcohol is the drug that leads to most negative health consequences and social consequences, but politically the debate today has not been influenced by it. It is also the case that the tobacco strategy was presented to the Public Health Service. An alcohol strategy is not presented to the Storting, and I don't understand why we're going to discriminate these drugs that way. Alcohol is actually the drug that leads to most negative health impacts for society. The party of progress today has a good deal of proposals that I haven't mentioned, because I really don't think they eat it up, but that's just how liberal it is, what's suggested – that we should have taxes as our neighbours, and that there should be freedom of establishment for the Vinmonopolet. Municipalities who don't want to have a monopoly on wine have to have a monopoly on wine, because that's going to be the Progress Party. The fact that a person should allow the marketing of alcohol in the cities, and that a person should sell beer at gas stations, is quite an unlikely suggestion, and I understand that some government parties must be happy that the Progress Party is out of government. I have often criticized the government for having too little energy in alcohol policy, but now I understand why. Once the Progress Party has been in government, this is one thing that has had to debate against internally. The current alcohol law states that the aim is to limit social and individual alcohol damage and to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. When the Progress Party then calls for a more modern alcohol law, the Progress Party must first and foremost remove this objective paragraph, because that is not what their policies provide, i.e. to limit the social and social damage caused by alcohol use. I think it's sad and provocative to listen to such an alcohol policy debate. I'm probably impressed that I had my first doctor's job on a medical watch. I've learned how to sew on full people. I've seen all the misery of alcohol use. I've said I'm more restrictive than the Christian People's Party, and maybe I am, but I think we should have a more worthy debate, because it's about a lot of people bowing down because of alcohol. That's what I thought the Storting should take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2275	I don't think that's the basis for being either sad or depressed about what we've been debating so far. I think it has been a good and quite predictable debate. I have grown up in a place where, of course, there was a ban on advertising, and where there was no access to wine monopoly. But my impression was that there was no shortage of alcohol, then of various quality. The point is, there's a lot of things that have changed. Seeing this in the society we live today, and the way society works today, I think is important, perhaps especially in terms of the ban on advertising. Soften is an island in the municipality of Rødøy. There are eight permanent residents left in what has been a traditional fishing community. What are they doing on the Soft? Well, in order of course, they produce whiskey that has received recognition internationally, but that they are not allowed to tell about. They are not allowed to tell on the websites that it is actually possible to travel to the Soft, as we do to Scotland, and get completely unique whiskey. That's why there's still someone living on the Soft. The ban on advertising, and the way we handle it, is going to be crucial for whether there are going to be people living in the Soft in the future. This is one example of how today's advertising ban places obstacles to opportunities opening up just as we have seen on the Soft. Let there be no doubt that the Progress Party as fully as the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and all the other parties in this Chamber recognize that alcohol has negative adverse effects. But a ban on advertising that affects the Soft as it does today, we believe that we are fully manageable while we also care for good public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2288	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2305	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2312	Six years ago, the Right Party Government introduced the BPA for those under 67 years of age. In this regard, part of the debate was the length of the right, and many pointed out that it was unreasonable to stop at 67 years. I agreed with that discussion, but now we've got a proposition to make sure that those who have been granted BPA before they turn 67 don't lose their rights when they turn 67. It's the whole committee behind it. There has not been a large debate on this matter, and there is a large consensus on the matter. I am pleased that the Committee can stand together to extend this important right to apply even at the age of 67. But I also want to make it clear that you can't get BPA after reaching the age of 67, either with this change. Having said that, I just want to say that the BPA scheme works well in some municipalities and not quite so well in other municipalities. This is a right that all Norwegian users have if they need it, but we still have to realize that not all municipalities are equally good at meeting the needs of individual users. This is something that the government must also follow up on in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2321	The Labour Party supports, as indicated in the vote, the Government's proposal that users who have been entitled to BPA before the age of 67 should be allowed to continue this right after the age of 67. As the Committee stresses together, this is an exceptional rule for persons who have been granted BPA before they were 67. In the setting, the Workers' Party refers to the establishment of a public body to review the BPA scheme as a whole and to proposals for improvements. Today, the differences between municipalities are too large, and an important part of the sample’s work is precisely finding solutions to the local differences. We would also point out that the mandate of the panel should ensure that the issues raised by users and their organisations are thoroughly addressed and addressed. The Labour Party looks forward to the outcome of this work as a basis for a strengthened and more geographically equivalent BPA offer. I think I have to say it this way: finally something happens. The working party has already been promoted in the Innst. 294 L for 20132014 a request to investigate the intention of an upper age limit of 67 years as one of several themes in a BPA escalation plan. As a result, we support the fact that the court is now continuing. As the government writes in the bill, the bill is in line with normal municipal practice in this area, and it will be an important contribution to creating a secure and predictable framework and continuity related to them: people with high and long-term needs for services. This is also important for employees and ensures predictability. As I said, the Labour Party believes it is important to ensure an equivalent BPA throughout the country, but we do not want to be part of the SV's proposal to investigate the transfer of the scheme to popular protection. We want to wait for the NOU and initially view BPA as a municipal offer, but where the local differences need to be taken more fully into account, as I was inside. Anyone who gets a better day-to-day life with BPA must really be guaranteed this opportunity regardless of where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2334	Everyone shall be given the opportunity to participate in society, regardless of the level of function. Therefore, all those who need it should also receive user-driven personal assistance. Everyone deserves to live full lives, and BPA should help those with disabilities or with a high need for assistance to live a normal life. It means help to work, help to take education and help to live as active and independent a life as possible. The BPA scheme has been strengthened while the Progress Party has been placed in the government offices. As of 1 January 2015, the scheme was also entitled. This means that Norwegian municipalities are obliged to provide user-led personal assistance to citizens who need it. For the Progress Party, it is important that disabled people have the opportunity to live normal lives. Now the municipalities have to make sure that the scheme is actually user-driven and follow up the expectations we have set for them, i.e. after you have reached the age of 67. The changes we are making today mean that you will no longer lose the right to user-driven personal assistance even if you pass 67 years. Until now, this has been a limitation that has been there since today's law came into force in 2015. I'm glad we're cleaning up this. It shouldn't be that you lose the opportunity to participate in society as you want, just because you're 67 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2347	We're going to decide on a proposal from the government to extend the right to user-controlled personal assistance, i.e. the users who are over 67 and who have already been granted BPA as a right are allowed to continue it after 67 years. This is consistent with the practice in the field in many municipalities today. It is a good proposal, because it can create more robust frameworks and continuity around the supply that people with large and long-term needs have. The centre party made a concrete proposal on this particular matter when the Stortinge took Prop. 86 L for 2013–2014 concerning the right to BPA. Then we proposed exactly what is now proposed by the government. So I thought it was very nice. I'm not going to welcome you. I thought this was very happy. In 2013, we received clear warnings about what was introduced then. A large number of hearing aids do not support government proposals at the time to exclude users over 67 years from that right. The Health Directorate came from an absolute age-limit scheme, and that's what we listen to at that time. So to the economy, it says in fact that one assumes that this isn't going to be more expensive, because several municipalities have already followed this practice, and have done it by themselves. However, we have received a call from the KS Committee that the top-level funding scheme for resource-required services should be extended accordingly to this change in the age limit for the right to BPA. The reason is that KS disagrees with the fact that this extension for those over 67 years in the long term will not involve a higher cost. They fear that in the long run this can lead to a large increase, a cost for the municipalities. The central party will notify in the debate that this is something we think one should consider, so that the expenditure is fully financed for the municipalities. We don't want to vote for SV's proposal now, but we're waiting for the NOU. Finally, a line to the case spokesman: it's not like you can't get BPA after 67 years if you haven't had it before. What we're talking about now is BPA as a right. Local authorities may offer BPA even if they do not have the right to do so by law. I think it is very important that it is said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2362	SV has worked to remove the age limit for user-controlled personal assistance. Those who need help need help even if they're 80 or 20 years old. SV has fought and refers to proposals from us in 2014 to remove this restriction. We're happy that the system gets a little bit better for those who have it now, but we're not done. BPA has been a means of independent life and self-determination. Me and SV think it's nice that BPA is legalized as a health service. I have a disability and I need some linguistic help. But I'm fine. It should and should be an aid, and SV proposes that it be moved from health to public health. I have friends who need this arrangement. Now there are big differences between municipalities. In one municipality you get an electric wheelchair, while the friend of the neighbouring municipality only gets a manual wheelchair. They have the same problem, but very different offers. SV wants everyone to get the help they need, and different municipalities are not going to decide for themselves to cut the help that people get. We propose that the government should immediately lay down the BPA regime so that everyone can have a good and equivalent offer throughout the country. I address all the proposals from SV, which are all suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2375	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2380	In connection with the government's equivalency reform and work related to it, we get more stuff for the Storting to help people who have some challenges get a simpler life. User-driven personal assistance is just an instrument in which people with disabilities are given much more opportunity to be bosses in their own lives. Today it is those who reach the 67-year limit. It has been a little strange to see that this scheme has lasted up to 67 years, and then, like the disability, has passed by itself. Of course it hasn't been like that. This type of assistance is still needed even after the age of 67. I'm very pleased that the government was speeding up this particular point right here. This was nothing it was necessary to wait for a sample to say anything about, this was one of the things the government could come with before the selection came with its setting. We know that in the case of the BPA, it is quite different from the municipality to the municipality. We have heard examples of young people who do not dare to move to a place of study because the system in the municipality of residence is so good, while moving to the place of study gives you a much worse offer. What they fear most is a life in isolation. We must now ensure that we have a BPA system that ensures the same services, no matter where you live. I look forward very much to this sample being presented with their recommendations. Remember, the starting point for the work now done is that this sample has been given the task of making recommendations that make this scheme better than it is today, and I think that's what I promise. One thing that the Christian People's Party also got through was that this system should go from being a health system to becoming an equality measure and tool. I know that the user organisations have been very happy about that. This sample has now been commissioned to preface it, and I am therefore looking forward to the sample making its recommendations. It promises very well that it is actually a total accumulation that sees the need for this system to be better than it is today. I really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2393	I often talk about creating patients and the health and care services of users, and I think this is precisely why user-driven personal assistance engages so many, and that the system is so important to those who have it. Using user-driven personal assistance, we combine public assistance with individual resources in a way that is meaningful and individualised for the user. We have several times discussed the intention behind user-driven personal assistance in this room. BPA is a great arrangement when it works well, but many people who use today's system experience that it doesn't work after intention. I want BPA to be a real equality tool that helps people to live as active and independent as possible. I have therefore appointed a public body to review the system of user-led personal assistance in its entirety, so that we can get a system that works as well as possible. While we're waiting in suspense for the sample investigation, I already want to present a bill that takes a step closer to a better BPA scheme. With this bill, we propose to extend the right to user-driven personal assistance for people over 67 who are already in the scheme. This proposal will increase the safety of users to maintain the BPA system, which works well, even after the age of 67. The proposal contributes to a more predictable framework and improves the continuity of service provision for people with high and long-term needs, and will provide good use of resources both for individuals and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2408	I have an economic input. As I said from the Chair, we have received a call from the Committee of the KS, which fears the long-term costs, not in the short term, and they indicated that a top-level funding scheme for resource-requiring services should also be amended in the same way, which also now ends at age 67. So I want to listen to the Council of State whether he is concerned about the economy of this scheme in the long term, or whether the Council of State is absolutely certain that this will not lead to extra costs for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2413	I probably belong to those who disagree with the premise that organizing a service that is user-driven personal assistance is more expensive for the municipalities. I was also when I legislated for this scheme, but to follow what was the legislation, we still had a compensation for the municipalities at the time. I think it was $400 million. NOK, and it is very close to the amount of money that the municipalities have spent on the scheme after the right to it was legalised. So if it is that some individual municipalities get a little higher expenses as a result of extending the scheme to them over 67 years, they get to spend some of the money that they have been compensated for for for many years now – overcompensated – after we introduced the right in their time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2418	The figures that were just taken up here now should worry the Council of State, because one of the reasons why this is so is that there are very big differences between municipalities. In one municipality you can get a good offer on user-driven personal assistance, in another you do not get it. There are a lot of different rules. That is why, when the law was passed, SV proposed that it be laid down in order to remove this great discrimination between the different municipalities. We're now proposing it again. Doesn't the council see that it's necessary to get it in place, and not push everything out to a NOU? It will necessarily take several years before a modified law that can eliminate the worst injustices is in place. What is the reason why the Council of State is opposed to laying down clear rules for the scheme in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2423	I believe that the scheme is very clear as a statutory right. Then it's also made a very clear guide to the right that I think is very clear. Nevertheless, we see very different practices in the municipalities. Then I have come to the realization that the main challenge here is not to solve through regulations or more detailed regulation of that system. I believe that one of the main explanations that we get so different practices is the law, namely that it is today anchored in health and care law, and so all the way will be looked up to traditional health thinking when working on this. Therefore, this will require that this mechanism be enshrined in a completely different law, and that is precisely what is also the mandate of the sample. It is unfortunately a time-consuming and great work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2428	SV fully agrees that this should be enshrined in another law, as we have also suggested several times. We believe that this is an aid and should be transferred to the population, so that it is equal throughout the country, and that funding should not depend on local economy. But we know that this is going to take a long time, and I don't think that you have a sample work going on, is some very good explanation for not being able to create a rule that removes the worst differences and unfair treatment between the different municipalities, and as several representatives here have pointed out, people even refuse to move. Is the Council of State just going to leave it like this until a NOU is done, and the government has changed the law relating to this, and is it in the fear of the people or is it in other laws the Council of State thinking that this is anchored?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2433	I would like to remind you that when we legislated this right, it was precisely to strengthen the position of the individual in meeting the municipality. I believe that this has also been done. Then we've made a very clear guide to this, as an equality tool. I have also personally written a letter to all the country's rapporteurs reminding them of the intention of Stortinge with the system. I feel that at the political level in the municipalities there is often a great deal of support for this thinking, but practice is often different in the municipality. This is actually such a big and fundamental problem now that I don't think it would have been solved with a regulation attached to the law that is now. Now there is a need to do the big job that the sample does to fix this. So having a popular-funded municipal system will have other aspects that it's also important to think thoroughly through.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2438	I only record that the Council of State does not have any opinion as to where such a right should be enshrined in law. I also believe that the description now given by the Council of State shows how difficult it is to achieve this. Local politicians often have very little of their fingers in a regulation. It's the administration and the trades that's behind it. That is where the interpretations presented to the politicians for decision are made, that is where the technical basis is. That's why a regulation is so important, so the resistance that the Council of State correctly describes, and that exists in a lot of systems, could at least be taken down a little bit, you could get rid of these great unfair differences. Does the Council not see that such a regulation will come into the level of the municipalities where – to put it that way – one premises how the scheme should be applied locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2443	No, because the regulation cannot go beyond the law. So if you have the same legal anchor as today, a regulation won't change the basic problem. And the basic problem, as I think it is, is that this isn't seen as an equality workshop noise. This means that in the municipal units that provide this service, this is assessed from the same thinking as home care, practical assistance at home, etc. That's because it's anchored in the same law, and a regulation wouldn't lift it. The same holistic approach to these other health and care services would continue to exist. Therefore, I believe that neither the SV's proposal would have addressed the challenge today. Then, unfortunately, there is a greater work that needs to be done, which is about anchoring this in another type of legislation, in order to bring the problem to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2448	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2455	I don't think that line exchange goes any further, sail if there were a couple for good. I guess that shows a little bit of the problem, so you see that there's a lot of discrimination here, but you haven't wanted to do anything about it in seven years. It is not that a regulation should be able to remove the legal provision, but it should be able to elaborate on how the legal provision is to be practised. It is done in other areas, so that it would not be possible to eliminate any of the discrimination currently taking place, by a regulation, is simply wrong. When this law was passed, I rejoiced, because I had been working for it for many years. I want to give praise to the Advancement Party, as I know also struggled for it. But it has unfortunately proved that it has become worse than many after the law was passed. It must be a paradox. One of the reasons is that a prescription was not made, which SV pointed out already during the treatment. The organisation Uloba has examined this. They are among the initiators of the scheme and have shown that there is serious discrimination. It should be corrected. This system should be transferred to another law. Equality tools say many – yes, it has to be, and it is a tool. That's why the only place I've been able to see it would be well placed, is as an aid in popular peace, just like a wheelchair or other things. That's what this is all about -- getting a tool to help you get rid of some of the disability problems. So to the age limit: I record that if I were to lose sight of it tomorrow, I'm too old to have the right to user-driven personal assistance, sail with the changes that are now available, because I've crossed this magical limit of 67 years, where you obviously have to park your life – then you're done. I'm just saying that, because I think there's a lot of people who are my age and maybe older too, who get a disability, and who want a very good use for a personal assistant, just to keep the level of function up, to be able to participate and maybe even be at work. This age limit is quite meaningless. It's okay that you can get it, but you don't have a right, and you should have it, even if you experience it after you've reached the age of 67. This needs to be corrected, and therefore SV has proposed that the top level funding for particularly resource-intensive services should also be extended for those over 67 years of age, because if you have a disability before the age of 67, there is little reason to believe that it will go over later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2477	I am not disappointed when the right parties do not vote for our proposals, but I am a little disappointed when the Labour Party and the Center Party will wait. Why? We have opportunities to help more people now. Those who need help can't wait for the government to send proposals to the Storting, and we don't know when it comes. Those were so good words from all the parties. Then it is very strange that everyone votes against the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2484	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2501	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2508	Thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter, and thank you to the State Council which took up the contact from the industry when they asked for the change in the taxi regulation to be postponed. After 12 March, when Norway experienced the greatest restrictions in peacetime due to the corona virus and covid-19, there was a fall in the taxi market up to 90 pst. The outbreak of the virus also led to a delay in the preparation of the county councils for legislative and regulatory changes and a high risk of industrial bankruptcy has been reported. The Committee has noted that all municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo made recordings when requested by the Ministry. The feedback from most municipalities is that they want the introduction of new legislation to be postponed by half a year or an entire year. The Committee also notes that the Norwegian Taxi Association, Oslo Taxi, Bytaxi and LO are in favour of deferral and indicates that the suspension should be of 12 months or more, while Abelia and Uber do not wish to be suspended in the law on amendments to professional transport laws. So far the consensus reached in the committee, and now I'm going to go to the central party's point of view on this matter. We believe that a postponement of only four months is incomprehensible and without real effect. Then the government's suspension will not be a real help to a pressed taxi industry. It will only be an aid to the established operators of the industry. Their investments and income base are wasted to a much greater extent than is the case for new actors, and it is clear that consideration for the new actors is what has weighed the most heavily on the government parties. The new actors rely on investments as a basis for the rapid implementation of the law, but it is uncertain what these investments are, since all risks lie with leased-in new creditors who cannot be compared with today’s rightholders, because the requirement for competence is severely impaired. No one can say when society is back to normal, but the Central Party has been clear that the law change it refers to in Prop. 106 L for 2019-2020, should never have been adopted. Now we're just as clear about putting in a release so fast is equally irresponsible. The postponement should certainly have been at least one year, it would have had a real impact on the taxi industry. I refer to the proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2523	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2528	As stated in the comments, the Labour Party has as its primary position that the legislative changes currently proposed should never have been adopted. We therefore support the proposal that the matter be postponed for at least one year. A argument was used in the debate on the proposal, which was discussed about a year ago, that the taxi industry is so well equipped to meet the competition from the companies that will establish themselves under the new law, that the government parties were not anxious for them to be out of competition. Now, when we see what the state of the industry is in, and when we see that the situation with covid-19 is likely to last longer than this year out, we in the Labour Party wonder what lies behind the very short suspension period. They will now have major challenges in meeting this competition, even bigger than it looked in June last year. And when we see that large international companies, with a human resources policy that we do not accept in Norway, are ready to establish themselves in Norway, when we hear that companies with EU capital in their backs will establish themselves in Norway, and when we hear that companies like Uber and Bolt are facing billions of deficits for, among other things. to compete the Norwegian operators in the industry, then it is time to call the alarm again. So to other big questions, about unemployment, about app-based companies where drivers don't have employment, but run in leisure, and who only run when there's a lot to do: when duty ends for the privilege holders, who's going to set up standby in quiet periods, like Sundays and holidays, when there's holidays, and when the elderly and the disabled need to be kissed? So over to those who are going to issue permits, the county councils: in the hearing, many of them have said that they have problems getting in touch with that task, and many of them are asking for a longer postponement to be able to judge for it. To be honest, I think they should have. That is why we are promoting proposals together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which we had hoped would have a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2539	The Ministry proposes to change the date of implementation of the legislative changes in the Professional Transport Act from 1 July 2020 to 1 November 2020. The background for the suspension is that the taxi industry is within a period of 90 pst. the customer base is lost as a result of the covid-19 virus. Reduced capacity in the counties to implement the new arrangements necessary to implement the amendments to the Professional Transport Act has also been taken into account. Many counties report that it is difficult to implement the necessary adaptations to the new law as a result of the pandemic and ask for a one-and-a-half-year deferral. However, it is worth noting that other hearing bodies report back that the implementation of amendments is of little or limited importance on or after 1 July. This applies, inter alia, to: health enterprises, which are key players in the taxi market with their purchases of services. Some actors are already in the process of making changes possible and are demonstrating that a postponement is a problem. On the basis of an overall assessment and taking into account all relevant actors, the majority of the Committee considers that a postponement from 1 July to 1 November 2020 will be most appropriate. A four-month delay will allow established actors to enter into a more normal situation so that they can continue to contribute to a good taxi offer, while providing the county and state road services with sufficient time for necessary preparation. The purpose of the taxi reform is to facilitate a well-functioning taxi market to contribute to a good offer to travellers throughout the country. Prop. Therefore, 106 L for 2019-2020 does not provide for a rematch on the reform. The main points of the legislation adopted and the amendment are that the need to test permissions and the related duty to drive is lost. Furthermore, there is a possibility for county municipalities to grant exclusive rights to operate taxi services in municipalities with less than 20 000 inhabitants and a population density of less than 80 inhabitants per square kilometre. The Ministry has followed up the legislative amendment by laying down the necessary rules. In connection with the taxi reform, it has also been suggested that taximeters, which are currently installed in the taxis, are replaced by a more modern system. A report has therefore been prepared from a broad and complex sample that has looked at the regulatory framework for the transition from taximeters to the app solution. This report presents an assessment of how to regulate mobile applications that can be used as an alternative to taximeters. As a basis for the assessment, it is assumed that a control equipment must be supported in a well-functioning taxi market, a serious taxi industry, customer rights and safety for passengers and drivers. These are important principles for a future-oriented taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2550	Now we have another matter and a new debate on taxi. I want to say that today's debate can quickly evolve into, or perhaps experience, an attempt at rematch. Most of the arguments have been made in this case many times – including from this pulpit. As a result, I feel a little uncertain as to whether there is any need to repeat all these arguments today. But there is one new argument since the last time we debated the matter, and it is a substantial new argument that has led to a major change in the case. It is simply the coronary apathy and the crisis in which Norway and the Norwegian economy are now in the midst of it. The fact that Norway has been and to a large extent continues to be shut down, that bars, hotels and restaurants have been closed and are still largely partially closed, and that there are no tourists, and that air travelers do not come out and out of the country at our airports, has caused major problems and costs to the Norwegian people and the Norwegian economy. The taxi industry is and has been standing in the middle of all these problems, where customers and the market were lost almost overnight. The size has adopted a crisis package after a crisis package. We've spent billions of billions trying to save jobs and secure people's lives. It is also important to take care of the taxi industry in these times of crisis. The Government and the Advance Party believe that most of the changes that will be made are necessary for the industry and not least for the customers, i.e. consumers. But although we think the changes are sensible, it is not reasonable to implement all these changes right now as both the taxi industry and the whole of Norway are struggling because of the corona, and the market, i.e. the customers, simply are and have been gone. That is why we have decided to postpone liberalisation and deregulation of the taxi industry. There's no fasit around how long you're going to postpone. Someone wants us to postpone indefinitely, while others want no postponement at all. We have concluded that a postponement until 1 November is sufficient. We then take into account existing and new players, who, after all, have invested, relocated and planned for the liberalisation that they know will come. In addition, the Christmas season starts, which should mean that the customer base for the industry is good, and that the performance should be good. It was also important for us in the Progress Party to meet the industry with a postponement in order to avoid unnecessary and further problems due to the coronary crisis, but it is also important not to delay the changes too long. Because there will be a lot of exciting solutions in the future – environmentally friendly, innovative and good solutions that we know will come from both existing actors and new players, solutions in the taxi industry that will contribute to a better supply for the consumer. It is important not to be exposed, but to be implemented as planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2565	Koronacrisa has given the taxi industry tens of millions of people in market failures – it is known. It's been a serious break in the last three months. The turnover figures obtained by the Taxi Federation from some centres show a decrease of between 60 and 70 pst. for the period from 13 March to the end of April. The two state schemes that the taxi owners have been able to apply for have not been particularly helpful. They've been helping lately with the last steps. In another case, SV proposes to remove the minimum deduction altogether and to drop some fees for industry in 2020. But at the top of this, the drop-off in the taxi industry comes, the changes in the Transport Act. The industry has not at all had the opportunity to deal with these major changes in that law while at the same time being in a position to compete with the major international players who are just building up during the release. Those who are ready for full liberalisation in what we can call a layman's society are waiting around us, over us, under us – with names almost as rules we learned in German grammar: door, fore, counter, over, etc. The party of progress will pay tribute to the fact that these are ready. It seems that the Progress Party is most concerned with exactly them. What about the taxi industry that exists here in the country? The combination of the law change and the corona outbreak will result in a taxi industry that we do not know about. The drag of the taxis should never have been carried out in our opinion. The market economy is an important part of Norwegian transport and should be considered as part of the public service offer through regulation of rights and strict quality, safety and environmental requirements. What I am still amazed at, however, is that the government does not seem to have learned anything from the liberalisations, privatisations and the bidding hysteria that has ridden the West like a bad one in its years. Why does the government not ask itself whether liberalisation that has taken place in a country near us has worked as intended? I've wondered that many times. Does the mantra actually lead to more competition for the customer to get lower prices, for pay and work conditions of course become miserable for drivers? We in SV say no, it has become more expensive to use taxis in the countries that have tested this out. I think it's a strange procedure that it hasn't been evaluated and commented from our neighboring country. I have to say that if the government had listened to a hard-pressed industry and many county councils, this release would have been postponed for at least one year, as we suggest. It is good that it is postponed until 1 November, but that is not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2580	The left has a strong understanding that the taxi industry wants some postponement to implement a new law from 1 July. In that case, we should not make this decision today by giving four more months, so that the starting line is somewhat similar when it comes to a larger competitive situation, if new players are involved, and not least in terms of adaptations to the current market situation in the taxi industry. Because we have to admit that the industry does not work well, especially in the large municipalities, and perhaps in particular not in the largest municipality, Oslo. That the taxi industry works well here, I won't say is the case. I had hoped that there would be a discussion about these four months, but I hear that both the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party are now using the rematch to which they are adding, to say that this should never have been introduced. Then we are in a completely different discussion, and I had hoped that it was finished last fall, as we actually decided to add up to a new law for this industry. That's why I'm disappointed that these three games just angle it this way and don't come with so many new moments to whether it's going to be four months, whether it's going to be six months, or whether it's going to be a year that we're postponing it. So I'm a little disappointed that you're actually not talking about what's really going on here, and trying to adjust the state, so that you're equal when the new market opens. I don't think we can expect so many new players, but an innovative taxi market will benefit everyone, not least users.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2589	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a quick and good job. As case spokesman Siv Mossleth said, there is a joint committee that agrees that there should be a postponement, but one disagrees on how long that postponement should be. In June 2019, the size decided on changes in the professional transport law which entailed a re-regulation of the taxi industry. As a result of the outbreak of covid-19, after 12 March 2020, there has been a significant decline in demand for taxi services – actually up to 90 pst. The outbreak of disease has also led to the delay of county authorities with the necessary preparations for changes in the regulation of taxis, including the assessment of the need for one-off rights. High risk of bankruptcy in industry has been reported in the short term. To counteract the negative consequences of the covid-19 outbreak for the taxi industry, the government has a government in Prop. 106 L for 2019-2020 submitted proposals to postpone the implementation of the changes in the taxi regulation from 1 July 2020 to 1 November 2020. I would like to stress that I am concerned with implementing the changes in the law that the Storting decided in the taxi regulation, as soon as possible. The situation in the industry is as a result of the covid-19 outbreak, I don't think I want to achieve the intention of the law changes in a satisfactory way with an implementation from 1 July. The proposal to postpone the implementation of the changes in the taxi regulation should help to reduce the impact of the covid-19 outbreak on the taxi market and prevent the drier or confusion of the taxi supply. The proposal shall also contribute to ensuring the long-term continuity of taxi services and facilitate the improvement of the transition to a new regulatory framework by county municipalities. The government has made a thorough assessment of the need to postpone the implementation of the changes in the taxi regulation as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. In this assessment, we have taken into account input from different actors in the industry and feedback from municipalities, health professionals and other institutions. It is important to help ensure that the taxi supply is not weighed down as a result of the covid-19 outbreak, and that it is also a good taxi offer in the whole country in the long term. The changes in taxi regulation are a necessary reform of the industry also in a normal situation. Implementing the changes in the uncertain situation we face with covid-19 can contribute to a poorer taxi offer in the short and slightly longer term. That's why it's right to postpone 1 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2610	We're in special times. After we decided in March to shut down a lot of the business in the country because of covid-19, this has shut down the economy in many industries, as well as in the taxi industry. Several tens of millions of people are reported in business failures. Many perpetrators surrender permits, others sit at home and wait for better times, while expenses run. Still others are waiting for Nav payments. In addition, the government's social welfare schemes to the business community have not taken this industry. Now, when the government is proposing to postpone the amendment for just four months, how does the government see that an industry with its back is going to be able to rise to meet new competition in such a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2617	I share that description of the challenges facing the industry, and that's the basis for us coming to the Storting and asking for a postponement. When the Storting makes a decision on implementation, it is usually the government's job to deliver on it immediately and in line with the dates set by Stortingen. That's why it's especially that we come back and ask for a postponement, and that's because we have an extraordinary situation. So it's an assessment, how long should such a postponement be, and we think we've found a reasonable understanding. There have been several actors who have asked us to stand firm on 1 July, while others have pointed to a longer postponement. I think we have found a good balance, and then I also believe we should know that this conversion will be demanding for some actors whenever it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2624	I thank you for that answer and am glad that the Council of State says that it will be demanding anyway, because we have pointed that out at regular intervals. In the hearing of the Ministry in connection with this case, it was also found that many of the county municipalities are not ready to start granting permits within the agreed time limit. Although someone had seen fit to meet the original deadline, until 1 July, the county councils were also affected by the covid-19 problem. Nor will the new proposed deadline hold too many of them. How does the Council of State view the granting of rights when the grantor is not ready to carry out the task? Or more correctly, is it possible at all to meet the expectations of the companies that are now seeking rights under the new law?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2631	That's right. We continue to demand taxi licenses. We also point to the possibilities for granting one-rights, and it will be the county that does the work. It is also true that most municipalities pointed on 1 January, and some pointed on 1 July in a year. But I have received good assurances that with a deadline of 1 November, there will be good possibilities for the county councils to do this work. There are many people who experience extraordinary situations. We find that by granting the county councils a four-month postponement they have relatively good time to implement the administrative additions that are necessary. It will require an extra effort from the county councils, but it all indicates that they will have power.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2640	The Government Parties and the Advance Party consider that the deregulation should not be postponed for more than four months. We're in a hurry to get out of here. At the same time, the government provides the following travel information to people who enter Sweden, i.e. outside the Korona era: ‘The taxi market in Sweden is deregulated, which means that prices may vary greatly. In particular, many people in Stockholm feel that prices may vary by several hundred percent. Therefore, good advice is to use large and well-known companies such as Taxi Stockholm. [[...]] What will it mean for people if we get Stockholm states in Oslo in four months, when well-known Norwegian companies have broken back?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2650	The government is very concerned that we should have a well-functioning taxi market throughout the country. This reform I think will give us a better taxi market, right across the country. I also think it should be clear that not everything has worked well with this industry today. I believe both innovation and competition can be even better. It is also important that we state that we can use a better technology, that we can have a development. This applies to the taxi industry. Another area for which we are also responsible is the post office. The entry also has to be through changes in line with evolution, and I think it's the same for this industry. By suggesting that we continue the right and the possibility of a single right, I believe this should work well. But, yes – it will always be demanding to be in a change, and it will also be for the taxi industry when that change comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2659	The central party has realized that the government believes it is urgent to liberalise the taxi market. The center party wanted to improve it with a big message, but that train is now gone. However, since these changes are urgent, can the Council of State mention three countries where deregulation has provided lower prices, better customer experiences and safer working conditions? And he can't do three, so maybe one.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2664	I think that's a good example where we just see that competition is healthy. Now, this is an industry that also has competition today, and that has quite strong competition today, but we're letting up on some of the leads that are for the industry. We should be aware that many of the actors point out that this is positive. Had this been an industry where everything had worked well today, it would have been different, but there are many actors who point to the very challenges of the industry. I also want to say that there are several people who have pointed out that they have not wanted a postponement, precisely because they are eager to get this started. So here we've done a good assessment, and of course I think the Storting is very concerned that we're going to carry out the changes the Storing is doing. Of course, we should, but we need four months to make it work even better, in line with the Stortinget's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2673	The Consumer Council is among those who have wanted the introduction quickly, and they say that there are difficult to see concrete reasons for postponing changes in the taxi regulation. In this case, however, I think the Consumer Council has greatly disappointed in the matter. For example, they say that six out of ten nationally have had little pleasant experiences in the taxi. That is, if I once thought of a hundred taxi trips that the taxi took an unnecessary detour, I would be one of the six out of ten that was dissatisfied, although this was one of the hundred trips. So this six out of ten is an investigation that is very difficult to deal with. But to put this a little bit more into place: how many complaints has the Consumer Council received in the taxi industry last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2680	It is right, as the representative Mossleth says, that the Consumer Council has our clear advice. But it's not just those who have been clear, health professionals have been the same, and Abelia has been. So there's a lot of actors asking for this. It is therefore important for me to say that I will of course follow up the decision to raise this issue. But we think it is right to postpone four months so that the intentions of the reform adopted in this Chamber will work as well as possible. I think we should be aware that this is an industry that has had its challenges, but with the model we've found, we're just passing on the permissions, but the content of the permission requirement is slightly reduced, and we're going to have the possibility of one-off rights. There will still be demands for taximeters. Here we also look at possibilities to simplify that requirement, but then we have to have good alternatives before we can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2689	It is difficult to see that the implementation of this reform in a very short time does not have an ideological character. We see very few professional arguments. We rarely see that the government refers to experience from other countries that underpin this reform. At the top of it all, we have a coronary epidemic that makes it difficult to carry out such a major reform in such a short time. I notice that the Council of State cannot come with any countries with good experience in this liberalisation of competition, but what I want to ask the Council of State is firstly about the system of exclusive rights, that it is not entirely in place, that the county councils are not entirely in control of it yet, and also about the development of these apps that will work, with regard to the possibility of controlling black work, for example. Wouldn't you have needed a little longer time than until November 1st?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2697	After all, there is ideology behind the political thinking. There is reason to believe that competition and innovation in an industry can be positive. But I think the government shows very clearly that when we come with a postponement, it's because we think it's right to follow up the intentions of what the Storing has decided. So I'm very sure that the county councils with this postponement will be able to deal with the situation. They have our orders that it could be 1 July. They have sent feedback to us that it can be scarce. I think that just another four months could make it work. I think it is important that the county councils are ready for this, because I think the one-rights model is important to ensure that we get a good taxi offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2706	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2713	As a result of the outbreak of covid-19, there has been a decline in demand for taxi services of more than 90 p.m. since 12 March 2020. The outbreak of the disease has led to a delay in the administrative preparations necessary for the legislative and regulatory changes of the county municipalities. The proposal we are discussing today is intended to reduce the impact of the covid-19 outbreak on the taxi market and to prevent the taxi offer from getting worse or wettering. Several operators in the taxi industry have addressed the ministry and have shown that the corona outbreak has a significant impact on industry. The Government has now proposed to postpone the liberalisation of the taxi market from 1 July to 1 November. We're happy about that. There is a need to postpone the release. This is now about something more than postponing the introduction of a new law. This is about saving a diet, which we've discussed many times in the hall in the last few days. Several municipalities express concerns about whether there will at all be players left in the market to perform taxi services and the important taxi services: contract driving, school kissing, patient transportation — all that is vital. Is there anyone else in the industry who can do this? In the short term, this can simply be gone. This is a major challenge in the districts in particular. I have mentioned the exclusive model many times before here from the pulpit in Stortinget. The law is not at all designed for the public contract segment, as I mentioned earlier: patients, school pillows, municipal transport, order transport, the TT system and special kisses. This law is designed for what is called the “prayer market” or the “holdings place market”. It was mentioned from this pulpit that the Christmas table is about to start, and that then the taxi industry is given a new assignment. I'm not worried about that. I'm worried about what's absolutely crucial in the small places where there isn't a single alternative. We have proposed a big message – and I believe this is even more topical today – that takes the whole perspective on itself. Now it's probably four months off, and then the Council of State should take good advantage, because I'm absolutely sure that this matter of taxi we're going to discuss more – just like we're going to do with planes, trains and all the other public transport at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2726	I guess it's obvious that the Center Party believes that a postponement of only four months is too small. The taxi industry we have today will be on the minus side when the release comes. Most of the county councils to which reference has been made today by both the state councils and others want a longer suspension than the government parties and the Progress Party. It also does the Blind Alliance, the Disabled Association, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, the Pensioners' Association and the LO. The central party does not understand why the government parties and the Progress Parties are listening to these voices and also to foreign companies with EU capital in their backs and the driver’s model. The centre party will not have this unemployee society, social dumping and poor control of income and taxes. The county councils were mentioned, and I would like to mention that both Nordland, Inland, Troms and Finnmark and Viken believe that the introduction of new rules should be postponed for at least one year. Agder, Vestland, Trøndelag and Rogaland believe that the introduction of new legislation should be implemented not earlier than 1 January 2021. So it's not right that most people just want four months. The representative Igstad explains the situation for the taxi industry very well, but he concludes that four months is enough. After showing so much understanding of the situation, it is strange that he concludes with four months. The representative Johnsen believes that the Koronacrisa is a new element in the cause. That's right, and it makes it extra difficult to understand that the Progress Party can conclude that the four-month postponement is enough. The representative, Gunnes, has a great understanding of the taxi industry, and it is nice that he does not at the same time understand what the taxi industry wants, namely, a one - year delay. I want to clarify what is the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV's proposal in this matter: we will also postpone the changes to the Professional Transport Act, but we will postpone it for at least one year to take seriously the serious situation that the taxi industry has shown us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2743	I respect the fact that you can have different views on this matter, but I have felt that this debate has been a bit of a bit of a gap in what it really is about, namely whether you should postpone or not. It's all right, and then I can keep going. Then I want to remind you of someone who said that you can choose the color you want, just the color is black. That's what Henry Ford said. That's a little bit like that with SV. You can do things, just do nothing other than the way we've always done it. I actually mean that it makes sense by and to look forward and do things in a slightly different way. I feel a little bit like the Center Party is there too: you're against everything that's about change. I'm also glad that there's been a lot of competition, that someone dared to think a little bit differently, that we got cars that weren't just black, that Henry Ford wanted it to be. It has also been in the food industry. We have received competition, we have received lower prices for the customers, and that has been good. We've had telemonopoly, which was gone. We stood for many months and waited to get a phone into our house. There was a change, something happened, and something positive happened. I have a lot of understanding for the industry and those who are established, that they want to keep on having what you've had. I think the Consumer Council may be a little disappointed with the Senter Party in this debate, because the Senter Party has totally forgotten that they are consumers. There's a reason we have the debate about what to do in the taxi industry. There are major challenges, especially in this city. Many are dissatisfied with the offer that is there today. The second largest player who operates there today, Norwaystaxi, wants this. They're actually a little dissatisfied with the fact that you didn't get started by 1 July. I also think that is a perspective you should have, that there are people in the industry today who are also concerned that you should actually go further. I feel that there is also a little bit of Ludwig here in this room. There are people who just close their eyes and hope that it goes over and says like Ludvig that it’s a failure, that’. The industry that we have today – many of them are serious, good actors – is going to do this in a good way. So, of course, there will be some people who are dissatisfied, and there will be new ones who think innovative, who think differently, and who will now get it into place. So it's the Center Party – yes, I'm worried about the districts, but I actually think it's also taken inwards, precisely because you've opened up a monopoly model for municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. That's a pretty high number. There are quite large municipalities in the Norwegian context. That is why I also agree that we have gone in to postpone something, precisely because we now have an industry that has been in a very rough time. Most people have known that this change would come from July 1st, but now I feel that the opposition here, the red-green parties, is doing a pure rematch. That's the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2760	I can understand the right parties, which are talking about competition. It's their ideology, costing what it's going to cost. But the question we never get answers to is which countries and which places such liberalisation has given lower prices. We'll never hear about it – never. It may well be that this is a field where competition does not work. We have some cities, including: Oslo, where there has been partial release. We know that. Have prices fallen significantly in Oslo? No, I hear the exact opposite: I hear there's something of the background to make it even freer. It's a strange logic. That's the kind of question we have to ask ourselves. TØI submitted a report on the organisation of the taxi industry in spring 2019, i.e. last spring. They concluded that the second worst for users in the street and maintenance markets is the current system. It was the second worst. It was just one thing that was worse, and it's the next arrangement: the one that's suggested. So I think we have to look at the facts here and not just idealism and liberalisation and competition at all costs. I had some questions to the Council of State that I, of course, would not be able to ask. I wanted to ask the Council of State what changes to the new regulation could lead to a better quality taxi service for customers. That is what is still being referred to. Is there better quality of cars, higher skills of drivers in driving vulnerable groups, local knowledge, language? Is that customer service? Is there more stringent standard of good conduct, better accessibility for disabled people, e.g. wheelchair users – just to mention something? Does the Council of State believe that wheelchair users will have an offer as good as before with the new regulation, even if all disability organisations feel that the offer after the deregulation is getting worse? That's the kind of question I'm burning up with. If the Council of State feels anxious about it and has time for it, he would like to answer some of these questions I'm sneaking out. A lot of people are asking these questions. Something else is whether competition works in the taxi market. If, for example: The council believes that partial release in Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim has worked, so I would like to hear about the documentation on it. And if the answer is no, if it hasn't worked out, wouldn't he be able to figure out a code a little bit further before it gets started, i.e. a longer postponement? I guess that's all I can do, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2773	This debate has mainly concerned the postponement that is on the case map today, although some of the representatives have tried, for example, to stamp the centre party inappropriately and claimed that we are trying to rematch. This debate has really shown differences in the view of liberalisation into which the taxi industry is now moving. Despite the fact that the debate has slipped a little that way, no one from the government parties or the Progress Party has shown that this liberalisation has really given low prices and very good offers to people in any country. When I went up to this pulpit, there were no other representatives who had signed up, so I want to thank for the debate today, and I think maybe the last words have not been said yet in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2782	But that is what this debate is about, because others have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2788	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 9 and 10 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2815	No one has asked to speak on the matter. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2832	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2839	Together with a broad majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party shares the security policy analysis in the Ministry of Defence's proposal for a long-term plan. The plan provides a thorough review of our vulnerability, how major activisation and the increased scepticism of the major powers to commit international cooperation are a disadvantage to Norway. We will not contribute to increased tension in our neighbourhoods. We're going to act predictable. But, of course, we need to enforce our sovereignty in Norwegian regions. We're totally dependent on NATO if there's going to be a big attack, but we contribute to low voltage when we ourselves guard our areas in the daily and do not depend on our allies. It is not the security policy analysis that makes us want a new proposal for a defence plan for the autumn. The weakness of the government's proposal is that this plan differs significantly from the long-term plans submitted to the Stortinget in the last 20 years. The proposal is consistently non-binding, hardly any time and number fixing. It's more like a staging message than a proposition. In fact, there is no relevant proposal for a decision here. The Minister of Defence has without prior consultation presented what he refers to as an 8-year plan, although several points in the document refer to the 2021–2025 planning period. The long-term plans have always had a 20-year perspective with an operational part of 4 years. The reasons for the majority’s retransmission and mandate for a new proposition are summarised in a few brief points. These include: that we are disappointed that we see a long-term plan in which the Minister of Defence does not have the power to present a vessel structure to the Maritime Defence. It is the kind of decisions we have long-term plans for. We've known for years that today's ship will be old at the same time, and that's been a year and a half since the frigate wreck. Nevertheless, we have an incomplete plan for treatment, and unfortunately it reminds us of the government's postponement of the Army and Homeland Protection in the previous long-term plan. Now we realize that a full investigation of ship structure is not possible in a few short summer months, but we need at least sufficient clarity to enable the Storting to take informed decisions on the possible speeding up of some acquisitions in the Maritime Defense. The government owes the defense to be honest – at least more concrete – about where in the Defense Government believes it is possible to streamline 2 billion. kr. This will then come to the top of the so-called red tape and efficiency improvement. We must have concrete proposals for this. In addition, the economic consequences of the coronary apathy must be taken into account, inter alia. in the case of changes in the exchange rate. The defence's currency exposure is already high and will grow in the years ahead. Responsible financial management requires these calculations to be re-implemented and, if necessary, adjusted. I think it is still possible to find a broad majority in the United Kingdom on defence policy. We all have a responsibility to act responsibly and seek agreement whenever possible. But then the Stortinget must be invited to make real decisions, not to join a loop message that transfers all responsibility for follow-up to the government itself. Wide agreement on an non-binding plan in which we really don't decide anything has very little value. In the 1990s, we had less concrete long-term plans. They were so concrete on Stortinget that some unwise decisions were made. I have such great confidence in the Ministry of Defence that I believe a concreteisation of purchases and investments is best done through investigation in the Department. I look forward to a new review to the autumn. The Ministry of Defence doesn't have to rewrite everything. The vast majority agree on the analysis of security policy. It is a strength for a country like Norway. With regard to the timetable, we get exactly the same schedule as the government provided four years ago under former Minister of Defence Ine Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2856	Even before the bleaching was dry in this long-term plan, the Senter party pulled out and said the plan would be sent back. The problem is that there is no consistency between the criticisms made by the opposition against this plan in its opinion and the comments made by the opposition in the pen during the committee reading. It uses the term ‘cleared’, ‘tall fastening’ and ‘concrete’. These are matters which could have been clarified through a normal procedure between the committee and the ministry, as in all other cases. But in this case, there was no willingness to work that way. The plan was supposed to be sent back. We are faced with a very demanding security policy situation: major retrievalisation in our neighbourhoods, Russia, which has modernised its conventional weapons and nuclear weapons in a great way, and hybrid threats, cyberwar and political warfare against the West. This is also the case in Norway. Now is the time to stick together – there is no time to split the long lines of Norwegian security policy and defence policy. This plan should certainly have been dealt with now in ours. There is a criticism that the first period in the plan goes over eight years. That's a good reason to see the first period over eight years. Planning, implementation and implementation of large acquisitions take a long time, from the time it is decided, until it is implemented and it is seen to be manifest in increased operational capacity. Take, for example, submarines: an acquisition of 44 billion. kr, four new submarines, where the disbursement starts as early as 2021, and the acquisitions will not be completed until the beginning of the 2030s. Decisions taken for one period provide operational effects for the periods 2 and 3 afterwards, and liquidity for the same period. Thus, there are sound liquidity and operational reasons for looking at a plan over a period of four years. So I think there are some facts in this plan, or at least in the answers that have come from the department, that may have passed the opposition house. For the period 2020-2028 tangible investment is to be made for 190 billion. kr, and the investments for 45 pst. of the 190 billion kr is already in the first four-year period. This provides operational capability. The decision has been made in the last period, but now the payout comes, and now comes increased fighting power. That's why it's very pointless just to isolate the defence planning for the next four years. Then I notice that the opposition agrees to send the plan back, but they do not agree on the security policy analysis. Here SV goes its own way, so far not unexpectedly when you know what SV has been for historically in Norwegian security and defence policy. But how can we agree on how this defence should be dimensioned when we do not agree on the design threat? This also indicates that the opposition is now at risk of more games than reality. Finally, what is interesting is that very many of the structural measures recommended by the Defence Manager during the first four-year period are actually implemented during the first four-year period through the long-term plan submitted, for example: the acquisition of new helicopters for the special forces, a new combat quadron and the commencement of the acquisition of tanks. Of course, this plan isn't perfect, as no plan is, but it's a very good basis for putting together and improving the plan. It was the Right Ready, and the Right is ready to enter into a broad Defence Policy compromise when that time comes. The problem is that we have lost three to four months completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2873	It might have been interesting to run a new polemic with the Harek Rivers here, but ‘everlasting and faith to the Dovre falls’. Now Dovre has fallen, and now you have to do a new job, so instead of starting with what it was like a few months ago. "For all we have. And everything we are." is a brilliant slogan that we should reflect on. One thing is to defend the material, something quite another is to defend and understand the value of what we are – the punctuation of community, trust, cohesion, disagreement within the framework of democracy. The proposed long-term plan has drowned in the fight against the coronary virus. Storing and government has decided to spend two to three billion dollars to fight an invisible enemy. At the same time, there has been no ability to use a few extra billion to secure the country from potentially most visible enemies. That's the priority of the moment. That's not what the defense is about. The defence needs long-termity, predictability and a framework allowing defence capability to be provided. In the last three months, the government has launched a number of extremely expensive measures to compensate businesses and employees for not being able to maintain their operations. Employees have been paid not to create values. The long-term plan provided a unique opportunity to re-establish growth in Norwegian business. Technological development could have been strengthened in large leading defence companies. Then, as a consequence, more than 200 subcontractors would have been promoted back to work and, at the same time, the defence would have been considerably strengthened, and not least given to the head of defence the authority and respect he deserves. The Chief of Defence presented in the FMR what is necessary to maintain a credible defence. Then it seems very amusing and partly discouraging that the government puts the head of defense in the escrow and defines its own defence needs without scouring to the head of defence's work. Providing for the security of the state and its citizens is the prime task of the state. The starting point for any government budget should be that the defense of the country gets the material and the crew it needs to do the job. Norway shall be a credible ally in NATO, and Norway shall be able to meet at the Brussels ministerial meeting with a raised head and know that we are delivering on what we have committed ourselves to. This must be made clear in everything we do in defence policy. The defence shall be credible and effective in relation to the threat picture in force at all times. Apart from the numerous references to the rapid climate downturn of the Earth, the long-term plan is based on credible safety policy assessments, but the inadequacy of these measures is becoming more evident. Of course, those who have different interests in defence will be skeptical of any long-term plan, but this time the reaction was stronger than ever before. This is because decisions are pushed forward in time for a future government to take on the consequences and costs. It is certainly wise to establish a vessel structure, but it is too easy to push strategically important vessel decisions to 2024. These include, for example, corvettes, operational compensation for the loss of KNM Helge Ingstad and the launch of the Vanguard multi- role project. The army must be strengthened in the north, and there is a need for more crews in the structure of both Troms and Finnmark. Cyber defence needs to be strengthened. This is an area where the challenges are growing, and it will be important to be in front of the threats. It is important to look at emergency storage facilities and build them up, and to see them in a total defence context. Interrelation with the social security message will be natural. Such a long-term plan was presented, it would be natural for the Storting to receive a maritime investigation against the long-term plan, so that there is a common plan and strategy behind the development of defence, including the Maritime Defence. There is little doubt that it was unfortunate to treat the country power separately on its own matter, as it had done in connection with the previous long-term plan. The size also needs to be presented with a concrete financial commitment and plan, which will enable the Storting to monitor the follow-up of decisions. It is strange that the Council of State is not more precise in terms of economics and activity description for the next four years, especially because it is highlighted that the activity and economy were adopted in the previous long-term plan. It should then be very easy to refer to the plans already established and adopted internally by the Ministry of Defence and Defence. I have to add: I hope the Storting and all the parties here now can sit down and get a defense that we can all be proud of and believe in in the future, which was also Annien Huitfeldt was in. If you keep taking this fight one more time, we're not going anywhere. I hope that's the goal. We all see that this is going to be very, very expensive, not least the dollar rate is very high. There's a lot of uncertainty in the United States, and a lot of factors go into four years in the future, which probably also goes eight years ahead, but it's important that we now understand the seriousness, that we stop pointing at each other, and that we go together to create the best defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2896	We are witnessing today an act that is very rare in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and in this Chamber. The size sends a deposit in return to the government – about-to-leks. Why? Has the government not understood the security policy situation in our country? There is no problem. In the first part of the long-term defence plan, the government points to a very negative development in the security policy situation in the world and in our neighbourhood. They refer to a marked deterioration compared to 2016, when the previous long-term plan was presented. Increased major activisation, pressure on the rule-based world order, a more complex threat image and rapid technological development are factors that affect Norway's security in negative terms. It's a thorough and sober presentation that we put behind us. The problem with the long-term plan presented is that this mystery, with the challenges he creates, has no response in the long-term plan of government for the Norwegian defence, especially what one intends to make concrete for the first four years, which is the obligatory part of the plan. The government is pushing almost everything out of cost, choice and structure. The longterm plan has been a longterm plan, but with concrete decisions for four years at a time, similar to the national transport plan. It is certain that sitting governments, who have gone to the elections on that plan, are responsible for ensuring their security. It has been committed and – at least to a certain extent – has led to a failure to push all the necessary investments and costs out in time. The government is now adding up to an eight-year cycle, where almost all capacity increases come after four years. Another risk is that the next long-term plan, presented in 2024, will follow the same style, and this will be a recipe for pushing a completely necessary upgrade of the defense over the years. The relationship between today’s security situation and the measures taken to meet it will be unbalanced for many years if one is to continue to put in place measures that will be left behind for eight years. The representative of the Harek Rivers started his post with a broad side towards the Center Party. I can assure you that in the Centerpartiet we read the plan very carefully before we came to the conclusion that this plan was not something the Stortinget could decide as long as we do not know what we are adopting. If we had agreed to this plan, we wouldn't have known anything about what was actually going to happen to the first four years. It is not possible. We have asked over 80 questions to the department, and answers could have been given out in a small pamphlet. It might actually be pretty interesting to study for those who want to see how you can answer without answering questions. The representative of the Harek Rivers might have been a little bit more audacious. It could have been in place, because the Stortinge sends a long-term plan for the defense to the government is actually a stomach job. Then maybe this is not the day to be too much in the attack position if you want to get to something later. In answer to one of the questions asked by Stortinget, we got a table. The question arose as to what level would be on the defence budget in 2024 and 2028. For 2024 there was an empty column, with the exception of 1.9 billion. kr i efficiencies. And then the representative Harek Elvenes says that we have received a good answer, and that here one could only ask questions. Jammen has asked me questions, but no if I have received an answer. The centre party took, and takes, the worsening security situation seriously when we decided to send the plan back to the government. We believe it is important that we put in place concrete reinforcements and real investments over the next four years. We can't afford to postpon the reinforcement of the Defense after 2024. We need to know where the defence is going to be more effective, we need to know what consequences the corona epidemic can have, we need to know – much faster than the government has planned – how to strengthen the maritime defence, and we need to know that we are getting more personnel into the defense – not after 2024, but actually now, when it is so much needed. This is not a decision The Storing does in the blind. This is after careful consideration, and we hope that we will get a more specific answer when we get the plan back to the cottage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2917	The treatment of the long-term defence sector by the Storting is an important issue. The defence must defend peace, its independence and our freedom. It's one of the central tasks of the state. Defence is not built over a four-year period and the security policy situation may change. That's what we saw in the treatment of the current long-term plan four years ago, and we've been confirming that since. The projection's description of the challenges arising from changes in the security situation and technology development is good. All except SV is based on it. However, the opposition parties in the Committee, from SV to the Advance Party, have met on eight points which they wish to be clarified. Although these parties may have a different view of the development of the defence, they agree in the vote on a proposal to send the proposition back to the government and ask for a new proposition to be transmitted to the Stortinget as soon as and no later than 15 October of this year. On the part of the Christian People's Party, whether we are in government or not, we believe that it is important that the Storting should be given sufficient information and a sound basis for decision, but this time we have already received, for the most part, detailed information from the Ministry of Defence on all the questions that have been sent to the Committee. In our view, a rapid treatment of the long-term plan for the defence sector is necessary, so that the plan can be implemented as foreseen, from 2021. Both the government and the defence need clarification in order to be able to plan the business during the first years of the new four-year period and to be proposed in the State budget for 2021. I have also noted the importance of avoiding undue delay in the case of the defence chief, who is taking office in August, in the Defence Forum. In our view, this can be done well in a rapid supplementary proposal, so that the Storting and the Committee can quickly get on track, negotiate a position which hopefully will be widely accepted, and make the necessary decisions on the new long-term plan for the defence sector. When I hear the arguments for what is being requested, I am sure that there are relevant things that could come out in a debate, so that we could agree and keep the timetable. Two of the eight points on which more information is sought relate to the coronary apathy and its economic consequences, among others. for the exchange rates and other consequences it will have for the Defence itself and for the Defence’s assistance to other civil protection. These are important issues that have come to light in recent months, and which the Ministry of Defence has already highlighted in its responses to the Stortinget. It is quite natural that they are thoroughly treated by the Stortinget. The opposition parties assume a great deal of responsibility by postponing the long-term plan. We also look forward to the government's planned communication on social security being addressed. It should have been presented in the spring, but due to the corona epidemic, the Ministry of Justice has been delayed for understandable reasons. State security and social security are increasingly slipping into each other, and we need to see the overall picture in order to safeguard our security. Building and maintaining a credible modern defense is a long-term task. That is why we are pleased by the Christian People's Party that through the implementation of the current long-term plan, we have strengthened the Defence for the last four years. That strengthening must continue over the next four years. The long-term plan for the next four years will therefore be marked by record material investments. It's necessary, and that's good. We need to ensure the right balance in terms of operational means and staffing. The highest level of defence is achieved only by a good balance between defence tasks, structure and economics, and it is believed that the Christian People's Party we have received sufficient information about, and further negotiations instead of a postponement would have been possible. The Christian People's Party believes that a postponement of the long-term plan is undesirable and does not serve the case – nor can it see that it serves the defense, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2936	On 17 April the Government presented a new long-term plan for the defence sector for the Grand Duchy: Willing to be prepared – ability to defend. It describes a serious challenge picture for Norway, and the necessary reinforcement should have been debated in the spring session. Instead, the Stortinget in the position we are debating today has asked for a new plan in October. I have replied to 133 written questions in two rounds. There has been a hearing, where I have explained further and detailed the content of the plan, and where both I and the head of defence have answered further questions. Nevertheless, the Storting chose to do what they call sending the plan back. That's not what the country needs now at all. We need real negotiations on priorities, real negotiations on policies – it is our job as politicians. The number of actors affecting Norwegian security has increased. The resources available to threaten and target Norway have also increased. State and non-state actors use more complex methods. The riskiness of those who want to hit us is higher. Our vulnerability has increased, and the distinction between state and social security is becoming less and less apparent. We must live by planning for uncertainty and unrest for a long time to come. Koronacrisa is a frightening and good example of unforeseeable events that strike wider and with greater consequences for our security than most of us have ever experienced. This is not the time to postpone decisions. If we do not show that we take defence and security seriously, we risk not only the loss of security policy influence but also a restricted space of action in other policy areas. This recognition weighs heavily with the government when, in a pressurised time for the Norwegian economy, we continue to prioritize the defense. Therefore, we invest in capacities and platforms that strengthen our ability to establish situational understanding, follow and understand the security situation in our neighbourhoods. That is why we are continuing a broad-based defence that has relevant and powerful capabilities for action in all domains — on land, on the sea, in the air and in the digital space. The defence shall be sufficiently prepared to meet the daily challenges, to deal with crises, and when war is required. The development of the defence sector is balanced to tackle tasks nationally and internationally – in peace, crisis and war. Our security and well-being depend on more than ourselves, and the defence of Norway depends on more than the defence – on the overall efforts of the entire society. We cannot construct artificial choices between home and outdoors, solve tasks nationally or in an allied framework, or focus one scenario ahead of another. A more complex threat picture reinforces the need for close civil-military cooperation. This long-term proposal has taken this very seriously. There is close cooperation with civil partners in the work on the forthcoming social security message. It is based on clear boundaries of roles and responsibilities between civil and military actors. We have to be in the forefront of a much more complex threat picture for, among other things. improving the capability of defence in cyber, strategic communication and situational understanding. The measures contained in this plan are the right starting point. The adoption of social security is primarily a civil responsibility, while defence is an important aid resource. For the defence, it has been a high priority to maintain the operational capability during the coronary crisis. Defence has also helped the police and health services with significant contributions, including: for border inspection and several infrastructure measures in hospitals. We have started an evaluation of how the coronary crisis has been managed in the defence sector. The evaluation work will be seen in the context of the review of all aspects of the crisis for society as a whole. The new long-term plan, such as previous long-term plans, describes and will lead the defence sector in the short, medium and long term. The fact that the government in this plan is clearer about the investment and the financial planning framework until 2028 is not an expression of a desire to push decisions into the future – no, rather the opposite. The defence sector is a sector which requires the greatest possible predictability within the unforeseeable. The development of the structure and acquisition of both material and infrastructure requires time, planning, implementation and implementation. That is why the defence structure we have today is the result of important decisions taken in previous long-term plans. A further reinforced defence framework is absolutely essential given the changes we see in the security situation. The new long-term plan provides for a gradual escalation to use 16.5 billion. NOK more on the Defence in 2028 than today. Let me list what we propose for the first four years: the government will start work on selecting a new vessel structure soon. It is about large investments for capacities coming around 2030, and about assessing which new technologies will provide the best possible operational capability in the future. The basis for this solid foundation work shall be completed. We're upgrading Skjold class corvettes. We're prolonging Ula class submarines. We have a new response quadron for the Special Forces. We start work replacing Bell 412 with new capacity. We increase staffing with several specialists and crews, and the majority of posts are given priority over operational capacity. The list is not complementary, but it's until this opposition says, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2969	Now the Minister of Defense says that the opposition is at the limit of the irresponsible. That's an interesting starting point when you're in a minority government and you're going to try to create broad consensus in the Storting for your plan. But what the majority of the Stortinget is now doing is adding up to the exact same timetable as former Secretary of Defense Ine Eriksen Soreide did. She posted it in the autumn of 2016, and it was adopted. When Stortinget does the same thing as former Minister of Defence, does today's Minister of Defence think that former Minister of Defence was on the line of the irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2974	It is the third year that I stand here as Minister of Defence, and I have had to accept criticism from the opposition almost all the time in order for the land authority proposal to be postponed, so that the Stortinget did not have the opportunity to make a good decision. Two things: it was exposed, and the other thing was that you didn't see things in context. Then I register that the Storting makes a similar decision now. I think turning this long-term plan is on the edge of the irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2980	Now I think the Minister of Defense has misunderstood something fundamental, because we adopted the long-term plan for Defence in the autumn of 2016, and it was presented together with the State budget. The debate on land-use planning, the choice to push the Army out in time, is another discussion. The strange thing is that the Minister of Defense is doing the same thing to the Naval Defense here. He says here in a loud and clear manner that he will conduct an investigation, but the point must be to see these matters in the context. However, as far as the long-term plan is concerned, it is exactly the same timetable that the former Minister of Defence provided. The question remains: when the Stortinge adds to the same timetable as former Minister of Defence Ine Eriksen Soreide, does the Minister of Defence think that the way she presented and was treated for the long term in Stortinge was at the limit of the irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2985	In the setting, we get seven, or maybe eight, elements on which a long-term plan should be based. There are elements we have answered, part of them in the long-term plan, part of the annual handling of matters from the Ministry of Defence to the Stortinget. Yes, with the basis in the setting here, I actually believe that it is irresponsible to send the plan back. It would have been quite possible to have negotiations on this plan and got a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2990	From one irresponsible representative to the other. The Minister of Defence considers it irresponsible that the guttering representatives will know what they are involved in adopting. I really think it's proof that we're responsible, and that we actually want to see the department and the council a little bit in the cards, want to see if they can deliver what they're going to deliver later. Right now I almost don't know what's in this long-term plan anymore. So it's nothing for the future, it's nothing that's concrete, it's nothing we can try out – because everything comes in the future. My question is going to go to F-35 and the enormously increasing cost of the 52 aircraft we're going to acquire. The progress party is for these planes, just to underline it, but now the exchange rate is 30 pst. It's more expensive for U.S. dollars, and it's about 13 B.C.E. kr from 2012. Does the ministry have full control of this, and has it ‘closed’, so that it has been ensured in terms of the dollar rate and the dollar rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e2999	That's a very good question that we've also discussed quite many times in this room. Currency reporting from the Department of the Grand Duchy is carried out each year in the State budget. As far as the fighter aircraft program is concerned, we know that efficiency has been saved between 7 and 8 billion. kr because the program delivers better than the starting point was in the forecasts. So we know that the currency cost is on a So here's a difference of about 8 billion. kr with the forecasts currently in place. We report every year in the state budget on what the situation is. Yes – in the currency control system adopted when it was decided to buy the aircraft, there is a mechanism to follow it up on a continuous basis. We've also had a review of that mechanism, whether it's good enough, and we've concluded that in retrospect. So yes, the ministry has control over the currency situation, even if it's challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3006	Turkey has now been thrown out of the F-35 program, and they would probably have 120 or 130 planes, if I remember correctly. It has consequences for the totality of the number of aeroplanes to be produced. I would assume that the Norwegian defence industry also delivers components to the entire program, so that the components that were to be delivered to Turkey cannot be delivered, and then there will also be more expensive unit prices for what is produced around. Can the Minister of Defense tell me what will be the consequence of Turkey being out of the programme now? Now I'm not talking politically, now I'm talking purely operationally and not least materially.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3013	That's two things. With regard to the number of aircraft, it's also a goal to sell aircraft to other nations, so you can imagine in the fighter aircraft program that this is going to be possible to cover up. But it's a challenging situation with Turkey, which also has a large defence industry that delivers parts. Now you're looking for solutions, if any other nations can take part of this, and then Lockheed Martin takes responsibility for some of these things. For the time being, there are no forecasts that indicate that the price will be so high, but it may be a long way off if we have to find other manufacturers of parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3020	There are a lot of questions one should have asked and could have asked. Now we have time to do it in the future, but I want to attach some questions to the defense personnel. There's no doubt, no matter who you're talking to, that personnel may be the biggest challenge, whether it's for the Army and the Home Guard, the Air Force or the Maritime Defense. Only on the new plane base on Evenes shall a crew of up to 550 personnel. 14 January this year it was 27, and the planned increase in the current year was approx. 70. The base should be fully operational if not for too long, but in the long-term plan provided, of the 2,500 with which one would increase the staff, only 500 before 2024. Then the question is, is the Council of State concerned about how to mannify in the Defence when there are no more new options than that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3027	Evens shall be manned with personnel coming from Bodø and some staff from Ørland. The MPA has personnel from Andeans, and then you have to fill in with extra staff after that. There are a lot of keys for the defense personnel management. We have just implemented a personnel reform in which we have received a specialist corps. This means that we have easier access to personnel, that's ambition. It also makes you expect to have longer standing time for staff. We have also implemented a education reform that will enable us to cooperate more closely with civil institutions for education, so that we can have easier access to personnel. Then I record that there is a debate, including in the defence, whether the increase we have included in the long-term plan is sufficient. Calculations have been made to ensure that this is possible. Then it's driving a defense dynamically, where you have to make adjustments along the way. You've always had to do that. That's why we report in every state budget the rank of defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3034	With respect to reporting – there is no great disunity in the defense, no matter what defence branch you are in contact with. Nor did the hearings that were here with the defense organizations, there was any doubt that it was quite critical. It is also difficult to obtain personnel, because they simply do not exist. There are not enough technical personnel. Not enough of those to fly in the Air Force, and it takes a long time to train them. I'm surprised that the Council of State is no longer concerned. However, I will follow up with another question related to what the leader of the committee raised, about postponement. A year's worth of land was spent, but now you're going to spend almost four years in the defense of the Sea. A lot of basic material lies there, in the Chief of Defense's professional military council and in other distributions. Why does a four-year plan on how to protect the marine environment in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3041	I'm aware that many people say it's challenging to get hold of people in the defense. That's one of the reasons why we've done the reforms we've done, the personnel reform, the education reform. So the organizations say one thing, but I hear something else from the leaders. Even if they say it's challenging, you think you should do it. The land authority was important to investigate. Among other things, it did: that we concluded that the concept of a tank you were in would not give us the protection and the firepower that the personnel needed in those tanks. Instead, we had to decide to buy new ones to have good enough tools. When it comes to Naval Defense and vessel structure, it may well be possible to investigate more quickly. I'm not the one who put that part. I am registering that the Chief Maritime Defense believes you should be able to deliver a concept within nine to twelve months, could describe how it should be. Well, then it will be possible to continue working on it. It is not such that no one is allowed to say vessel structure in the Naval Defense until 2024. Then you read the defense plan you're in, wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3050	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3058	An increased commitment to the Defence is absolutely necessary. The Defence Manager used a ‘nowhere’ defence structure in his professional-military advice given to the present long-term plan. In the media, this was referred to as a minimum defence. Today, the reality is that the minimum defence that was then described is no longer a minimum, it is too small for the defence to be able to meet its obligations nationally and internationally over time. So it's bloody serious. A council must give visions and describe the long lines in the area for which he is responsible. Of course, this also applies to the Defence. It is necessary to ensure that the money we give in this room is used for concrete purposes that provide a good operational capacity. Then the head of defence will have to plan, implement and control, and I think the new head of defence will be very good at that. After the government change in 2013, major re-priorities were made, so that money allocated to investments was used for operations and other purposes. So the army, which I know best, lost 50 pst. of the investment capital during that period. The long-term plan meets well at one point, and that is that the threat picture is significantly more serious and different from that of the previous plan. A plan over eight years, with the actual projects coming in the last period, reverses a long-term strategy. This is where crucial investments will come long after 2022. We don't do the most important things first, and it must be that the first parts of the plans are obliging to get a real priority debate here in Stortinget. The manoeuvring concept in the Army without modern tanks and helicopters with appropriate supporting structure is like the Maritime Defense without frigates and the Air Force without F-35. It is a simple logic: the defence must be able to combat a threat and manoeuvres at long distances with maximum protection for its own personnel and be able to move the forces quickly. That's the basis of any maneuver concept. Investments in combative forces are prerequisites for setting up, training and rehearsing the rest of the structure. When doubts were raised about when and in the ultimate sense of the kind of critical fighting force Norway should have, this could lead to improper use of money at all levels. I think it is absolutely right to send the plan back and give the Minister of Defense an opportunity to get rid of the questions before the debate starts in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3075	I have to say I am a little surprised and amazed that the chairman of the committee does not actually choose to sit in the hall and follow the debate until the matter is finished. I also see that it is difficult for myself to read what the opposition really means. They agree on one thing, and that is that some chapters should be sent back, and that some chapters are absolutely excellent. But there ends the consensus. I don't know what you want to achieve either. I also hear that one of the colleagues in the committee is saying that it is to put the head of defence in the scandalous hook not to follow the chief of defence's professional military advice. But it is not that the trade-military council gives 'carte blanche' and that one abdicates politically. I also hear representatives say that the Minister for Defence must have misunderstood the security policy situation, despite the fact that it is precisely the security policy situation that is well described. I also think that your memory can be short. I hear the Central Party, at the representative of Navarsete, says that we don't know what's going to happen in the next four years. It is possible that people's memory is short, and that mine is even shorter, but that's all reason to remember that the government routinely informs the Storting about matters related to the defence sector several times a year, matters that are mentioned and planned through the current long-term plan. It is done through the investment forecast and revised national budgets in spring and through the budget proposal with new ageing in the autumn. And then you don't know anything about what's going to happen in the next four years! So the most comprehensive reporting is done here, through the budget proposal, which does not just contain plans for the coming year. That's not just information, but actually decisions that we're making. Every year we get a status of developments in the defence sector during the current planning period. It also provides a forecast for the current year and a detailed description of the implementation and achievement of the last completed year. In addition, there is an overview of investments that provide an up-to-date status for all large investment projects, both for material, EBA projects — including projects that have been completed — and future projects. The investment proposal in spring presents new projects from the long-term plans for approval. At the same time, the Government submits to the Stortinget the need for any changes to previously approved investment projects. So you don't know anything about what's going to happen in the next four years! Think about it! Here we get one proposition after another with the ability to debate, change, adjust and decide. In the year of implementation, information ondisposals by all other sectors is also presented through the revised national budget and new age.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3094	Yes, humility is demanding. I also think it is a bit demanding for the representative of Navarsete, who has been with and dealt with two long-term plans for the defense, and has performed to pronounce: ‘I myself contributed to the handling of the two previous long-term defence messages. Everything looked very good. We didn't think it was necessary to focus so much on the defence." It's forgotten. It's a little bit back in time, but what's even more interesting is that the Center Party and the representative Navarsete have also forgotten this phonograph record that they've been playing in the last three years, about several helicopters and more tanks. It doesn't sound like it anymore. I'm pretty sure when we're going to sit down and negotiate this plan for the autumn, this is going to be a theme, and it might as well have been a theme in ours now, because I guess the Center Party is still busy. Some of the problem is that the Center Party reads this long-term plan as the hell reads the Bible – you choose to read and hear what you want to hear and read. No matter how many times there will be repeated reading from the proposition about what is actually being strengthened in this four-year period, it seems to go by their house. So I noticed the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts. It was an outline of what needs to be strengthened, the cyber defence must be strengthened. Yes, the cyber defence must be strengthened, and the cyber defence must be strengthened. The Chief Cyber Defense Officer has been very clear that this long-term plan is a significant strengthening of the cyber defence. Then the representative says Tybring-Gjedde that the army must be strengthened in the north. And the army shall be strengthened in the north, and the army shall be strengthened in the north. Has the representative of Tybring-Gjedde passed the idea that the Army will be given a new artillery, a new fighter company in the garrison of South Varanger, that the Northern Norway Brigade will have four mechanized battalions and new tanks? There is a matter of new tanks for Stortinget in 2021. The acquisition comes quickly against us. Then the representative Tybring-Gjedde is busy with more personnel. Yes, the long-term plan is also occupied by more staff. There has been an increase in the first four years of 550 more annual works and 700 compulsory workers. It should have been more, it could have been negotiated, and I'm pretty sure it's going to be a negotiating theme when we meet in negotiations for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3112	One can always discuss whether to run polemics with the representative Harek Elvenes – it's a bit polite, then. Both he and the representative before trying to make a point that a person has neither read nor understood the message. This is a rather unlikely claim, to that extent. However, the long-term plan is a comprehensive review of the security policy situation and a comprehensive review of what will happen. A person shall not need to search through different budgets and propositions and investmentprops and you name it. One should actually get an overview, one should know what a decision is, and it should respond to the security policy challenge that the country has at any time. The country’s security policy situation is quite different today from that of both 2009 and 2013 — quite different. The only one who doesn't recognize that we've actually had a completely different situation is the representative of Harek Elvenes. He repeated a very strange quote, which he has found somewhere, by me. We adopted long-term plans that respond to the challenges of time security policy. What we are about to adopt is to respond to today’s security policy challenges – not those in 2025 or 2029 or 2031, but today’s security policy challenges, which are very well described by the government in this proposition. It's very well described, but whether you're here in the Storting in opposition or if you're traveling around in the Defense, you tell me that there's a terrible answer – a terrible answer. Yes, we're going to want more tanks. Yeah, we're going to want more soldiers, we're going to have more helicopters, and we're going to think for sure about both the Naval Defense, the Air Force, the Army, the Homeland Protection and the Cyber Defense, and how it's going to work in a cooperative, how to get funds and enough people to make it work, so Norway has a strong defense. It wasn't like that, when one postponed the land power for a year to make a new deal, that one didn't know that one was going to have tanks. One could get the impression when one heard the answer from the Minister of Defense instead, to my question in the lines. NATO made the exact same claim in 2017, that Norway should have a mechanized brigade. That the government doesn't answer that, it'll be a little bit the same as now. One does not respond to the security policy situation. Yes, one answers that brigade, and that's very good. Had everything else been in style, we would certainly have discussed the long-term plan instead of discussing details of how and why we sent him back to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3123	In conclusion, there are some things that should be mentioned, some elements that can be mentioned: When the chief of defense presented his professional military advice, he had a 20-year time perspective. So when he had fully filled up, we wrote 2040. There are not very many initial investments in the Chief of Defense's professional military council, simply because what he sees room to do in the first four years, not only financially but also in relation to the development of personnel and the procurement of capacities, has been adopted in the plan we have from 2017 to 2020. So this isn't so much mismatch. He describes an increased need for personnel, and he might think of having air protection drawn closer. That's the two things. But he is also very clear in his comment on the long-term plan that we need to remember the balance between the economy, personnel and capacities. We've done that all too often. Therefore, it has been important for us to present a balanced plan. That's why it's important for us to leave it to the head of defense to explain how he's going to implement what we're adopting in the plan, simply because it's dynamic. Defence is a dynamic environment that, by educating people, training people, shopping new capacities and equipping personnel correctly, will improve their defences in the future. But the balance between the economy, personnel and capacity is important. That's what we've been saying. It is also one of the most important wishes of the head of defence that we take care of this. What we've delivered, it's doing the wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3134	I want to remind the Council of State that there is no majority in this Chamber – it does not help to insist that the Council of State has delivered everything that is right and everything is fine and nice and nothing is wrong. There are eight clear requirements contained in the majority observations here, on which the Council of State and the Ministry are to deliver. Although they believe that they have delivered on it, they should actually do so. I would like to make sure that the Council of State is aware of this and will deliver it – not that you have delivered it, because then it will be sent back again. We have asked for this, and it must therefore be delivered regardless of whether the Council of State then claims that it has actually been delivered. And then back to the case where the Council of State is still saying that the head of defense is talking about 40 years. He doesn't. He talks about four years, eight years, twelve years – and so on in time. But he uses most of his report in four and eight years. Yeah, he's also talking about far ahead of time, because you have to do that, because it takes ten years to deliver defense material, maybe 15 years. But what the council does is not to conclude a single contract for the next four years and talk about what he's going to do in four years. When the Council of State is no longer the Council of State and this government is not sitting, then the next government will take responsibility. It's not control. It's handing over the control to someone else. It doesn't help to say that you've made a lot of decisions in the last period, in the period we're in now, and you're not going to do anything in the next, but you might have to do a lot in the future. It won't last. I would like to make sure that the Council of State has received the message clearly, and that he can assure Stortinget that he will deliver on what he has been asked to deliver, and not the same report again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3143	I expected that I was so open and clear in my first post when I said we would deliver on it. I said it was also a relatively simple question, which I don't have to go into and spend so much time on. But it's actually a point of using the reader's guide, because the defense chief's professional-military council extends until 2040. And that's also a good argument to see things in an eight-year perspective. Because if you read the long-term plan we're in now, plus the first four years of the long-term plan we've delivered, you'll see the context. Then you see when the decisions are made and what you build. This is not how the representative Tybring-Gjedde claims that nothing happens in the first four years. There's a lot going on in the first four years. But of course, we're going to take these eight questions with us and answer them as best we can. Then I expect that we will agree with the Storting on the autumn once.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-02.ana.ud552e3153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Case No. 12, Unit, was treated during voting earlier in today's meeting. So we're done with today's map. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
