ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e93	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e98	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Bjørna Moxnes, Nicholas Wilkinson, Ingvild Kjerkol and myself, make a proposal for a national hearing plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The agenda for today's meeting has not been outside the regulatory 24 hours set out in the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 33 of the Rules of Procedure, but the President will nevertheless propose its approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will draw attention to the fact that cases No. 1–4, 7 and 8 on the current map have not been out of the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President will state that today's meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e141	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be an opportunity to reply to comments from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e148	Today, we are dealing with the tax matters that belong to both the revised national budget and the government's proposals for Phase 3 to create more and include more. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. Since 2013, the four non-socialist parties have had 14 budget units, with different government configurations. Through these agreements, the transport budget has increased by over 80 p.m., the defence and the police have been given a strong boost, and taxes and taxes have been cut by about 25 billion. kr. If there's one thing that's certain, it's that the policy that's created from a community between these four parties is very different from what a cooperation between the left-hand five parties would have looked like. No parties agree in all matters, but the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have jointly set out a course for the country that works. We have been in continuous crisis management for the last few months, both in the government and here at Stortinget. In particular, the Financial Committee has been in many major, costly and difficult cases since 16 March. Although society is now gradually opening up again, we are still in a state of crisis. The economic projections for Norway show negative developments in GDP. The world economy, on which Norway is very dependent, swings violently, and the uncertainty that is there because other countries are now in a very difficult situation with the handling of covid-19, demands that the state use its economic muscles to speed up the economy and allow the necessary conversion. There has rarely been a more important time for Norway to halt our international relations, both in Europe through the EEA Agreement and further through the UN, NATO, WHO and climate agreements. For small countries like us, it is crucial that this works, especially in times of crisis. When we see increasing major activization, this is really not the time to cut ties with the outside world or challenge the international agreements we're part of. I can't get to stress the following strongly enough: I'm always going to strongly disagree with those who say that a lonely nation state is the way out of this and future crises. International crises must have international solutions. It will be a hollow argument only to highlight the nation state as the best means of meeting this crisis, when we know that the economic muscles we own in the state pension fund abroad are as connected to a healthy world economy as against exports of oil and gas. It becomes even more hollow when the Norwegian economy is then exposed to the demands of the outside world, and although national wealth consists mainly of the labour force in this country, it is the sale of the goods that this workforce produces, we live on. Then we have to have customers, then we have to have a market – a market larger than Norway. In the matters we are dealing with today, the government proposes more grips. Let me briefly mention some of them: We are in favour of increasing the depreciation discount on the property tax on working capital, which is important for maintaining Norwegian ownership and giving Norwegian owners a hand bill at a time when the profits they often need to pay for property tax are no longer present. We improve the tax incentives for start-up companies and the purchase of shares in our own company. If there's something we're going to depend on in the future, it's that wise and risky people in this country take the chance and create new jobs. Following agreement with the Progress Party, the maximum property tax for dwellings and recreational dwellings is reduced to four per cent from next year and the majority have reached an agreement on the Maritime Fund which is being dealt with on Friday. Furthermore, the government is following up several measures adopted by the Stortinget. This applies, inter alia, to: reduced VAT, employer’s tax and increased depreciation rates for machinery in the first year. Finally, it has been a very hectic six months, and I believe we still have a lot of work to do in the handling of the covid-19 outbreak. In the autumn, I assume that we will see a government budget that is still marked by the crisis we are now facing, and the accelerated conversion of the Norwegian economy. It is easy to adopt increased use of the country’s resources for the necessary emergency measures. It's going to be a little bit worse to reverse these back to normal. But normally must be the goal, even after this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e181	There's a marked line of division in tax matters, where the government, with the support of the Progress Party, thinks that in times of crisis, we have to fit those with the greatest wealth, and then those who have little in the past get even a little less. This with the property tax comes at a time when we have 320,000 without a job. The thousands of lay-offs don't get the money they're entitled to, while those who have big assets on the stock exchange are going to be glad to pay a little less in taxes. I can't imagine a worse match between needs and actions. For the Labour Party, work is for all first priority, and cuts in wealth taxes do not create jobs. The wealth tax, on the other hand, ensures that even the wealthiest contributors to the community, and helps to reduce the differences. He's not perfect, but ensures that those who have the least, in general, can pay less taxes, while those who have the most, pay something more. It also ensures fewer zero-tax providers, and without being able to document the effects of wealth tax cuts on growth and employment. For 2015, the government was honest enough to acknowledge this in clear terms and wrote itself in the budget: ‘There is no basis for budgeting with dynamic effects in 2015 of the proposals for tax change.’ Furthermore, they wrote: ‘Since the capital markets in Norway are largely functioning well, the wealth tax will probably primarily affect saving.’ The economic differences have already increased under the prevailing government, and the corona pandemic frames them with the least income and weaknesses associated with working life the hardest. It increases the economic differences, and then measures are needed to prevent the crisis from shifting the balance of power further – in favour of the owners of the capital. At the same time, we have with us that the government's proposal in the first crisis package was to let the workers pay to reduce their payroll. Of course, this wouldn't talk about anything, but it's a fact that if the opposition hadn't put the foot down, one could have had a situation where the workers had only been paid two days' full pay on leave and then got reduced payment to about 66 pst. of wages and salaries. We made sure that this was 20 days pay, and that one then held 80 pst. of wages and salaries — because it was legitimate and fair. The same is true of the government's reluctance to exchange restrictions when the community presents itself with loan guarantees, cash support and, for example, changes in the oil tax. Here, the EU is aware of the limitations of the exchange tax, and it is difficult to understand that exchange restrictions are impossible in Norway. The Labour Party would rather give less tax to the employees who are trade-unioned, and we are demanding exchange limits, rents and bonuses. What the government is doing is increasing the differences in Norway. The tax base has been imposed on significant extra tasks as a result of the decisions taken by Stortinget because of covid-19. It is therefore very incomprehensible that the government party will not agree to defer the transfer of tax offices from the municipalities to the state, both to ensure continuity in the work of tax collectors, to free up capacity and to reduce uncertainty and consequences for their additions. Property tax is the only municipal tax that the municipalities themselves decide on, and the Labour Party believes it is an important principle to keep the room for action locally within today's legislation. It makes it easier to secure a social profile where bottom deductions and different rates can be used to ensure that they are the most valuable. In local design, it is also possible to have schemes for exemptions, geographical differentiation and other measures to ensure a good, needy profile. The government's lack of transfers to municipalities to ensure health, the elderly and the school have caused record municipalities to introduce property taxes to maintain good welfare, schooling, health and the elderly. I'm taking up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e202	The representative Ingrid Heggø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e207	This spring, Stortinget has taken many important decisions on tax deferrals and reliefs. The Progress Party would have liked us to use several fiscal instruments to help businesses and individuals through a very demanding and difficult time. I record that some parties believe that the majority in this room are most concerned about helping the business owners and the so-called rich, while most people have to take the bill. Since Nav up until now has paid out 13.4 billion. kr to 360 000 jobseekers, there is no reason to doubt the majority's desire to contribute to the protection of the income of the out-of-work and the unemployed in combination with other necessary business crisis aid. The party to the progress has had an impact on reducing the maximum property tax rate for housing and recreational housing to 4 per million from 2021, and not from 2022 as proposed by the government. That's because the property tax is very unsocial. It affects families with children in the establishment phase as well as pensioners, regardless of income and credit. Then we have to admit that too many Workers' Party and Center Party-led municipalities are going to deprive the inhabitants of this throughput to the Advance Party because they are changing the local calculation models for property taxes. But let me warn you about this, even though we know that it happens, because it really undermines the Storting's decision to reduce property taxes. The progress party will go against the change in government forecasts of a reduced valuation discount on housing values above 15 million. kr. This change is likely to give a marginal income, but the main objection is that we fear that there is only the beginning of increased taxes on housing, and for us a dwelling is a home and not a tax item. The Progress Party is engaged in non-discrimination and local Norwegian ownership of Norwegian workplaces. It's a little surprising that the Center Party isn't busy with the same thing, but in the Inner East. 362 L goes against the Central Party to attack an important measure to strengthen Norwegian ownership in a demanding economic situation, i.e. the increased depreciation discount on ownership interests in Norwegian jobs. The result of this attitude is that it is more profitable for non-residents, who do not pay taxes on wealth, to own Norwegian enterprises than it would have been for the Nordics to own the same companies. This weakens Norwegian ownership and affects Norwegian communities and corner stone holdings throughout the country. Improvements in the option tax for employees, which the Progress Party has previously proposed, and better tax incentives for start-up enterprises are important measures in a situation where we need private ownership and investment in new businesses. This year, many of us are going to vacation in Norway, and Norway is a fantastic holiday country with great nature and many opportunities for experiences for small and large. The party of progress has repeatedly taken action that simplifies Norway's holiday for most people, and so do we this year. We have removed the boat engine fee for the boat people. We have removed the inheritance fee, so that most people finally got the opportunity to inherit the old family cabin without having to borrow to pay the inheritance fee. Now it's the camper people's turn. There's a lot of them, and there could be even more of them. The progress party has been made to simplify and amend the legislation on motor caravans and to notify the conversion of the one-off charge for the same cars shall be non-profit-making. It is a contribution to even more can enjoy Sommer-Norway in the future. Finally, let me point out that the settings we are dealing with here today show that there is a clear and clear distinction between the parties on Stortinget. The Progress Party has taken the Corona situation seriously, and the Progress Party believes that today’s economic situation means that the most important thing now is to facilitate growth, development and Norwegian-led jobs. I think we're contributing to that. Let me also thank the parties we have collaborated with and jointly found good solutions with – solutions with which the Stortinget is now invited to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e226	I noticed that case-rapporteur Wang Soleim from the Right took us on a journey of nearly seven years with blue-blue policy, but he forgot the main summary of tax policy to the sitting majority, namely that there have been huge tax cuts for those who have the most from before, while there have been strong tax increases that have hit both the people and business throughout Norway. I have noticed that the Progress Party in the Opposition is now conducting a hard fight to try to reverse some of the deeply unsocial and anti-business tax increases that they themselves were at the forefront of implementing when they were in government and sat with the Minister of Finance for over six years. However, taxes still exist in Norway at more than 5 billion. kr higher than when the Senterpartie sat in government. I record that the representative Limi is concerned with the property tax and the device on it. Well, if the Progress Party was concerned about targeting the small and medium-sized enterprises around Norway, it is a little special that, for example, in the proposal for Act No 14-2 paragraph 3 of Section 14-2 paragraph 3 of the Act, a concrete statement is that the stock discount should be increased when investing in foreign companies. It is not a specifically targeted measure to take care of Norwegian businesses around Norway. What would be a targeted measure, on the other hand, is the proposal of the Centre, by reducing the valuation of operating resources, but by ensuring that the existing discount on shares – which may as well lead to investment in other countries without any ring-fence in Norway and the crisis we are facing. In this room, we have previously implemented important measures through a number of crisis packages, which we have been broadly integrated in the Stortinget. We also expect that there will be a targeted follow-up to the decisions taken there. One of the tax decisions that were taken was that one should provide a relief that led to new investments in ships. I record that the government – and that is so understandable – has been demanding to design a new temporary balancing group for parts of today's balancing group e, i.e. for ships engaged in short sea shipping primarily. But instead of cancelling and pushing action, one should rather make sure that the measures are strengthened by improving the write-off arrangements in balancing groups e, i.e. making it more favourable in today's situation, which is particularly demanding for both shipyards and shipping companies, to invest in both ships and rigs. As part of the crisis packages, we have also supported the temporary reduction of the employer’s fee in Norway by 4 pst. over two months. At the same time, one said that one would give a compensation to Finnmark of 250 million. kr. The excess – when you have given a compensation of 4 pst. in that area – 83 million. kr, I note that the majority believe that a state fund should be involved, instead of implementing further measures in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, a vulnerable part of Norway, which is severely affected by the crisis. We believe that a boat needs to reintroduce the special Appendix in Nord-Troms and Finnmark and implement other measures in that area. In conclusion, there is a reference to the rule of circumvention in this case. It is a very important principle we have through the exemption model that one can reinvest funds through its own businesses. But when a person withdraws the funds, they are to be taxed on dividends. What one has seen are more examples, and actually more recent examples, is that one organizes away from paying taxes. It is unwise and, therefore, a few amendments and clarifications need to be made in line with this regulation. I'll bring this up with the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e243	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e248	Prior to the meeting of the corona pandemic in Norway, Norway was in a situation where economic differences increased. We saw that the rich withdrew, while they were left with the least. We know that the differences in society are increasing in the wake of an economic crisis. We had not yet returned to normal, as the representative Wang Soleim spoke about, after the financial crisis occurred in 2008. Those who earn least had not experienced a real wage growth of ten years. While the wages of cleaners, shop workers and health professionals stagnate, there are people living in a completely different world. Those with the greatest assets have really had good years. They have, with the good help of the tax cuts from this government, deducted. In Norway, we have greater inequalities in wealth than countries such as France, Spain or Italy. It is with this hindrance that SV has entered into the negotiations and concluded the settlement of this spring, in order to secure the jobs of people, get a more social day-care scheme and more social provision of money for those who are already out of work, because we know that it is those who are hardest hit in the crisis we are facing. It is, as many have pointed out in this debate so far, in fiscal policy that we really see the difference between the right and the left. It looks like the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party think it's those who have the greatest assets, or those who have so much money left over that they can invest a little in start-up companies, say, that need the help now. To put it that way: Right-wing policies are and become right-wing policies – they do. Instead of giving targeted tax cuts to the richest – and we have repeatedly asked the government if it is possible to prove that it can create jobs, and it cannot – one could have spent this money on tax cuts for the low-paid, or spent money on targeted investments to create work. It's almost parochial that after a spring when we've already postponed payments in taxes on wealth, even though we know that it's a little targeted measure, we're now notifying new taxes on wealth after the taxes on wealth have been reduced since 2013, we're seeing how those with the biggest assets are going to take advantage of this situation just to ask for more. The NHO then called for the tax on wealth and other taxes to be reduced by no less than 100 billion. NOK in by 2030. I think this room should notice that after a spring when a united political Norway has gone in order to give both tax cuts and large tax packages in the billions of years to business, the answer from business is to ask for tax cuts in that order, while the country is in the greatest economic crisis since World War II and people are both out of work and have not received a daily allowance and have to go to the Salvation Army to get food. I honestly think that is shameful. So I notice that there are some points of light in what has been presented by the government here. One point of light is that the majority will increase the valuation of primary dwellings in property taxes. Interestingly, the argument is that business is more likely to invest in jobs rather than in property. This is something that SV has pointed out for many years, in line exchanges here in the Chamber with representatives from, among other things. Right. I can only see that the message has begun to sink in. We need the money to be invested in productive jobs and not to be hunted down into housing. I look forward to seeing the policy followed up when the government presents its government budget in the autumn. Then we need a policy to create and secure jobs, and we need a policy to reduce the differences in Norway. With this I address the proposal that SV has.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e265	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e270	I would also like to, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to assume that we have now had civil budgetary cooperation since 2013. So I'm not going to say that in all those years this has been just as simple, but we've come up with good results, not just now with the coronary apathy. Even in the climate crisis we are facing, cooperation has made it possible to reverse the trend of emissions in Norway. Emissions are now falling – they are falling for the fourth year in a row in 2019. I also fully agree with the rapporteur that it is important for an open economy such as Norway to strengthen international cooperation, both in Europe and in the rest of the world. We need an open economy even when we're going to get out of the crisis we're in, and we need it even stronger to achieve the climate goals that both we and the world need to meet. This year we have had many crisis packages during the spring. Major decisions have been made in the Grand Duchy and also with large increases in expenditure. I think it's important that we now, when we get into a situation where we're going to look at how we're going to get out of this crisis -- which we don't know how long is going to last -- not just think we're going to do the same thing this time as what we did after the financial crisis in 2009 -- to increase, unilaterally, public expenditure. It is absolutely necessary that we also free private capital, so that people can make their investments, and that they have private ones that become a driving force into the evolution of the economy that we need. This matter is linked to the entire revised budget – and the green package of measures, a matter that comes on Friday – but today we are making some tax changes that free private capital to make their investments. Among other things, taxes on working capital are reduced. I think this is right, it will help to invest in existing and new jobs. It is an extension for personal investors of deductions from equity deposits in small start-ups, thus raising the amount limit. On the left, we are particularly pleased to extend the option tax system for small start-up companies, and that the condition that people must have been added to the company after 1 January 2018 is lifted. That was a requirement earlier. The scheme is extended to companies with 25 employees and 25 million. kr in revenue and balance sheet total. This provides a significantly better opportunity for small start-up companies. Of other proposals that lie there, it is important to take into account that we extend the VAT exemption for depth journalism. This is something you've been waiting for a long time, but now it's going to work. Finally, we will rather live with the disagreement we still have with the Progress Party that the valuation discount on primary housing with high value is proposed to be reduced from 2021. This is one of the disagreements that we've had many of these years since 2013, and I'm absolutely sure we can handle this as well. But it is important that we not just focus on increasing public expenditure. They'll be hard to download again. Having tax havens that free capital is right because you have private people who are involved and become a driving force to get out of the crisis we are in, and also because there are changes that are easier to recover when you go into a normal situation, and it's a desire to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e290	The changes we are discussing now come as a new chapter in a rather long search for a demanding spring for our country and a demanding situation for the whole world. It is still the case that we have many temporary measures that need to be temporary in order to take the current situation to ensure that we have targeted measures for the right type of activity in our country, and to speed up both business and society otherwise. When you look at the number of people who are on leave, who are still sky-high, we know that the large majority are in private business, and that one of these spring is trying to get targeted measures, whether it's the compensation schemes against businesses, or maybe even more important, the matter we're going to discuss afterwards, the pay bill. The subordination of the trend here still remains there – that we also have a demanding international situation in which the market for many of these enterprises goes down. This means that many Norwegian companies that are dependent on exporting are in a demanding situation, and that many of the grips that are now being taken are important, but must be temporary — it is all the more important to go under. In such a situation, our tax system is an important factor, because it is an important tool that we from the National Assembly can use to create a system where more is created, where we can make it possible for one to own more locally instead and also to strengthen local ownership and contribute to close links between those who create jobs and those who want them and who want to do the job there. In RNB 2020, many new changes in tax law are being made as a response to the corona outbreak. One of the many big grips we've been doing this spring has been reducing the employer's fee. It's a grip that, of course, has meant a large amount of proceeds for the state, but that has been targeted at the companies where we want people to be at work and keep the wheels going. In addition, there is a temporary start-up letter on balancing group d, on the machines, which also provides a certain proceeds but ensures that capital is available in the enterprises. One of the more targeted measures for smaller companies is when an extension of the option tax regime for small start-up companies. It's a good grip that I'm happy that we're now getting in place. In addition, the fact that the low rate of VAT remains until the end of October is also a good measure, but it is also important to be temporary. The big grip that has become most remarkable in the debate before me is the tax change in which one has reduced the depreciation discount on working capital in the wealth tax, and one has warned that one will increase this something for the most expensive dwellings. That's what I and the Christian People's Party mean. It's about using our tax system and making it possible for us to own more of our businesses locally, but also those with the largest assets to contribute well to the community. So there's a tax treatment that I'm sure we're also going to have to discuss more in this room in the future. But I mean the grips that are in the proposition and that are also in this setting that we're now discussing are good. The case spokesperson had a good post and should have thanked him for it. He reminds us of two very important perspectives. First of all, in the current situation, in our country and internationally, Norway and Norwegian companies are dependent on international cooperation in order for us to be able to move forward and to be able to get out of this crisis. Secondly, the measures we have now are temporary. And coming back to a normal situation is going to be demanding. There will be a debate in this room when several of the measures now giving large profits to operators, whether in business or elsewhere, need to be cut off. But they have to, because we're going back to a normal situation. And with the targeted measures for which the Storting goes in during the day today, I think we'll take long steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e309	This spring, the Stortinget has launched and allocated billions of dollars to a wide range of action packages to prevent the consequences of the coronary apathy. We have made significant improvements in day-to-day pay legislation and have set up several new schemes to provide income protection for more people. In addition, the Stortinget has adopted a number of business aid packages, and Red has supported the need to put in place schemes to compensate serious enterprises with a large loss of income in order to prevent the bankruptcy of particularly small enterprises with the right to life. At the same time, we have called for and made proposals to ensure that, when these schemes were set up, they should already have much stricter rules and requirements in order to prevent abuse and reduce the possibility of private enrichment in terms of dividends, bonuses and the like when the community provides huge amounts of billions available to businesses. It cannot, in our view, be voluntary for the wealthy to participate in social service. But what we've seen this spring is that the majority in this room have been content to express vague expectations to the country's economic elite about showing moderation and restraint. On 25 March, the FSA recommended that the Ministry of Finance should lay down a regulation requiring banks and insurance undertakings not to pay dividends until 2019 to their shareholders – this because the banks needed these funds to secure themselves against losses. It rejected the Minister of Finance on the contrary, to the surprise of many. Last week, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority repeated the warning that many Norwegian banks are at risk of having major problems in the future. Then it is a pity that banks in the meantime, so far this year, have paid out 5.6 billion. kr in dividends to its shareholders. Then, later, will show whether the government's emergency to the banks this spring has adverse consequences for the stability of the Norwegian economy in the future. At least there has been an increase in inequality between people and has led rich shareholders not to wait for their money – in clear contrast to hundreds of thousands of workers who have gone monthly without getting one penny into the account, and who face an uncertain summer, unless the Storting takes hold of this week, as Red has now suggested. The government chooses to increase the valuation discount for shares and operating assets from 25 p.p. to 35 pst. and thus reduce the tax to some of the richest people in the country by 1.3 billion. kr, at a time when hundreds of thousands of workers have lost much of their income due to the crisis. I hope that the 1,700 people with the largest assets in our country send some warm thoughts to their friends in the government for the over 300,000 kroner in the annual tax cuts that they each get, as a small and exclusive summer gift at the dump of the landfill session. All the rest of us just get to register the unfair thing that this is what the government says, that everyone should contribute to the hard work, when the bill from the coronary crisis is now settled. Of course, red deeply disagrees with the need to cut taxes on wealth. Rather, we want to increase the tax on corona yields, so that those who already have the most must also contribute to the effort in which we have all been asked to participate. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e322	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e327	The economic situation in the world is in the wake of the virus outbreak, lacking parallel in the post-war period. In order to limit the adverse effects on the Norwegian economy, enterprises and jobs, extensive measures have been put in place. In the revised national budget and in what we have called the ‘Phase 3 proposal’, Norway’s way out of the crisis, the government promotes a number of measures to facilitate the aftermath of Norway’s virtually shut down and proposals to contribute to activity, jobs and green migration. In the revised national budget 2020 and in Prop. 107 LS for 2019-2020 encouraged the government to propose several temporary changes to the tax rules. Entities which have liquidity problems as a result of the outbreak of the virus and the measures to protect infection shall be able to continue to defer the payment of taxes and charges. This case has already been decided by the Stortinget, so that it could apply to the VAT payment that was due on 10 June. In May and June, in addition to compensation for employers in Zone V, Nord-Troms and Finnmark, the size of the request decision for a temporary reduction in the employer’s fee in a semester was proposed. In addition, the follow-up to the Storting’s request decision on temporary increases in industry depreciation and some other adjustments. I would also like to draw up the proposal for improvements to the option regime. A good option regime is important for start-up companies to be able to recruit and retain key competences. It is especially important in uncertain times, as we are now inside. The Government is therefore following up the Grand Duchy's request decision by extending the option tax regime for small start-up companies. We propose two important steps: firstly, we are expanding the current system to include those who were hired before 1 January 2018. Secondly, the scheme is extended so that several companies can make use of it. I have noticed that a joint committee has joined most of the proposals under consideration at the Innst. 360 S. Proposition on Norway’s way out of the crisis also addresses proposals requiring changes in tax legislation. Here the government has proposed several changes to strengthen Norwegian private ownership and stimulate investment in Norwegian jobs. The government has, among other things: proposed reliefs in the taxes on wealth on working capital, where the discount on shares and operating resources was proposed to be increased by 10 percentage points, from 25 to 35. We need strong private Norwegian ownership even after the crisis. Many Norwegian owners and their businesses have been hit hard by the Korona crisis, and we need to better facilitate increased investment and more jobs. Therefore, tax relief on working capital is a necessary measure in the situation we are in. In order to facilitate the access to capital of small and newly created companies, the Government proposes to extend the deduction scheme for investments in start-up companies. The amount limit for deductions is proposed to be increased from 0,5 million. NOK 1 million. kr per investor and the share premium limit in the enterprises from SEK 1,5 million. NOK 5 million. kr per company. In addition, we have proposed that the plan be extended to include employees. The government will also make it easier for employees to become co-owners in their own company. If the employees are bought shares with a discount in the company they work for, the discount is taxed according to the general rule as remuneration. In companies that have a general arrangement for employee shares, part of such a discount may be granted as a tax-free advantage. The Government has proposed that the tax-free rebate be increased to NOK 5000 per year of income. I am pleased that the majority of the Grand Duchy supports the proposals made by the Government and also the agreement reached with the Progress Party in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e360	The economic differences have increased under the sitting government. The Coronapandemic has the least income-intensive frames, and those who have weak social ties. In fact, measures are needed to prevent the balance of power in society from going further in favour of the owners of capital. Does the government have a goal that we should get out of this crisis with reduced differences between people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e365	Yes, we have to avoid the differences increasing. For this reason, both in the revised national budget and in the exit strategy for Norway, a number of proposals have been put forward to contribute to the inclusion in the labour market of those with the weakest links with the labour market. That's one of the most important jobs we're doing now. This is why we put so much emphasis on inclusion and integration to avoid more people being pushed out of the labour market permanently. One of the things that the Holden Committee has pointed to as the most important approach to avoid increasing differences is to make sure that those who have now been licensed can return to work more quickly. That is why we are promoting proposals for a wage support scheme. The second Holden committee points to the importance of creating new jobs, and that is why we are also promoting proposals. I am aware that the representative is thinking about the wealth tax, but there are many other measures that are much more important to ensure a society with trust, cohesion and small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e372	Does the government see that when they take the most money away, the differences increase? Even if one says what one has as a goal, obviously the measures are not strong enough. Does the Council have any new measures to bring about a reduction in differences in Norway? Can the Council of State really point that out?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e377	When the representative travels in his own county and visits small family-run businesses, where many of them may have felt that the whole work of life has fallen into ruins this spring, does the representative feel that their message is that they are leaving? That's not the result after this spring. Many have paid a very high price for the outbreak and the coronary crisis — workers, families, communities, business leaders — including those who have invested their own money in Norwegian jobs. It's not that the result of this crisis is that someone runs away, but we have a common responsibility to make sure that people don't run out of work. That is why we are placing so much emphasis on integration, inclusion and also on an educational commitment that we have now proposed, which is to ensure that more people are able to complete high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e382	When I travel in my own county, I encounter people with despair because the compensation arrangements don't work for them. They are too small, they do not come under the support schemes. That's what they're experiencing as the main challenge in the future, not the wealth tax. I can invite the Council of State on a trip in my own country so that he can experience it, but why are they so opposed to making the arrangements wider that the most possible can come in? For example, the requirement for outdoor activity, where does it come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e387	Now the representative raises questions about a matter that we are not currently discussing, namely the compensation mechanism. So far, if we look at February and March, almost 42 000 Norwegian companies have been supported by that scheme. While the Danes still have problems with theirs, we quickly got it in place. I was clear from the very beginning that that arrangement is not ideal. We had to bet on acting fast over millimeters of justice. Yes, someone has certainly got more than they should. Others have got less than they should. That is why we have also supplemented this scheme with a number of other schemes. We have now put in place a system for seasonal businesses that will be from May – when it opens in a few days. We have also announced in the agreement with the Progress Party that we will come back to look at travel and hotels in particular, where we know that there are some specific challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e393	An important principle of taxation in Norway is that when a reinvestor pays profits in its own businesses, no dividend tax shall be paid. However, when the funds are withdrawn for predominantly private purposes from the business sector, a dividend tax is payable. If one then gives the money to art, or if one gets a monument after it, one would have to do it, but there should be no alternative to paying taxes to Norway and thus contribute to the Norwegian community. Do the Councils agree with those principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e398	I understand what lies below this question that relates to a very concrete tax case. There the tax haven has given a preliminary opinion, and it is not natural for me to comment on it. Otherwise, I fully agree with the basic principle, namely that when money is reinvested in the company, it does not come under taxation, but when the money is taken out in dividends for its own private purpose, it is also something that you pay taxes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e405	I asked the question on a general basis, because it is the legislator who is responsible for the clarity of those principles, and it is the government who in the follow-up to it must ensure that those principles are followed. Therefore, it is essential that one cannot organise away from paying taxes, either through foundations or by other means. The Council of State sees the need for changes, such as: by regulation, in order to clarify precisely the principles that when a dividend is collected, primarily for private purposes, it is taxed by dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e412	It's quite right, as the representative says, that there is a legislator who decides what is the law in Norway. It's determined here in the Storting, and that means that it's the Storing that determines what is going to be the tax code in the future. Then, in the context of each budget, we assess the tax rules, and we also continuously assess whether the practice of the tax rules is in accordance with the rules laid down, and whether there is a need for adjustments to them. This is done in relation to the individual budgets, and of course we will do so this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e417	The finance minister says he wants to have small differences, but the reality is that the government does not have a policy for it. The cut in the wealth tax is targeted tax cuts to the richest, targeted economic gifts to the richest, if you will. One thing is that it comes after seven years of cuts in property taxes, but it also comes after a spring when the political majority here has given large state support packages to just business and business owners. It has been quite correct, but does the Minister of Finance have a paradox that, while people now experience that the support schemes put in place for them when the Korona crisis hit, as a more social day-to-day money regime, are now coming to an end, even though the crisis is very close and many are still out of work, does the government make the support to business – as the government calls them with the big assets – permanent?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e424	The question is based on the fundamental disagreement that relates to what creates a society of small differences. I am convinced that many measures, other than the taxes on wealth, are essential here. It's about children going to kindergarten, it's about young people completing high school, it's about those who are applying for apprenticeship getting it, it's about avoiding those who are weakly linked to the world of work being pushed out permanently. There is at the heart of some of the differences in our society: those who are in the labour market and those who are outside. But then we also think that we're dependent on someone creating jobs, and if you're going to create jobs, you also need capital. And we don't want a society where there's only state capital, we want a combination of state and private capital, we want to strengthen the Norwegian private ownership. That is why we are also proposing a reduced tax on working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e431	Also, the answer to the Minister of Finance reveals a fundamental disagreement in the understanding of what the taxes on wealth are, because the tax on wealth is not a corporate tax, it is a personal tax, a tax on large assets. Following numerous questions now, and insofar as calls from the opposition in recent years, the government has still not been able to demonstrate in any way that the tax cuts already carried out in the wealth tax have contributed to jobs. And I could not record that I actually got an answer to my question, because the question is whether the Minister of Finance sees the paradox that the support schemes that the majority of the population have put in place this spring, for most people, who are out of work, and who feel that they are not really getting to meet and have to go to the Salvation Army to get food – that their arrangements are being taken away now beyond the harvest, even though they are still in crisis, while the business community is receiving permanent support from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e438	A reduction in taxes on wealth is not a permanent aid, which means that you pay something less into taxes on wealth. And it's not like the small plumbing company or yard in the West has a big money bag you can just go and get money from. You pay taxes on the machines, on the building, on the goods that are in stock, and many have to take dividends from the company to pay this tax. Therefore, we believe that we strengthen Norwegian private ownership by reducing taxes on working capital. So it is that some arrangements in Nav have taken too much time, and it is not due to unwillingness or reluctance. They work day and night in Nav to get this done, and they try different arrangements to help those who labor the most. I believe that magnification and government together have produced powerful instruments for safe Norwegian jobs this spring, both for employees and for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e445	The cord shift is with the change. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e464	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, there will be an opportunity to reply to comments from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e471	Thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation. This is a matter that we've had less time than usual to deal with, but we still think that we've got a position that makes things right for the different parties' positions and for the policy that the multiple here wants to go in for. In general, there is a broad majority, a collective committee, which is behind most of the grips that are raised in the proposition, but there are some exceptions, which I'll do for later. The purpose of the laws that are now being adopted is a system in which employers are supported by the right to return to work on their own. By doing so, you want to reduce the number of persons permitted due to the virus outbreak. It is a proposal based on recordings from LO, NHO and an expert group led by Steinar Holden, as well as the experience of the general business compensation scheme. Over time, it is not viable for the public to subsidise the wages of employees with normal productivity. It is also important to stress that this is a temporary arrangement. Funding can be given to individuals as well as to companies, and it will also be opened up so that foundations, associations or organisations which do not have commercial activity as their object and which will be subject to the tax laws of § 2-32 can receive funding. The latter group will, among other things: be sports associations, humanitarian organisations, trust societies, non-profit organisations or others engaged in charitable work. Such associations may apply for support regardless of whether or not they conduct taxable activities. The scheme shall apply to employers who withdraw their own allowances, which were issued on 28 May 2020, before the scheme was advertised at the end of the working day. There is no support for permitting that has been implemented since launch, because the scheme should not give enterprises an incentive to implement new permits. It is a similar factor that has been in the general system of compensation, which here forms the basis for the size of the premium. There will be fixed rates for individuals and for those who are not subject to the tax laws § 2-32, and there will also be a flat rate for apprentices because he has to be adjusted for apprentices in general to have lower wages than others. As I was inside, there are some different places in the committee. Paragraphs 5 to 4 apply, which refer to the time when the additions should not be under cancellation, where the majority will have 1 October and the minority on 1 January. In addition, there are some appeal decisions that are similar to debates we have had on other compensation schemes, and where the majority oppose their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e488	When I'm going to use most of my post to say what we're dissatisfied with in the government's proposal, it's okay to start by saying that the Workers' Party is pleased that there is now a pay subsidy scheme, and that we are turning the measures from emergency aid to activity promotion. Like previous crisis measures, the Workers' Party proposes restrictions on dividends, bonuses, management fees and board fees in this case. The Norwegian economy is in an exceptional situation, and there has been cross-political support for most measures. Nevertheless, we know that the crisis is going to come to an end. For while the Storting has granted huge sums of emergency aid to businesses, tens of thousands are sitting at home waiting for money from Nav. Young, low pay with short or no education is hit hardest. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes that enterprises receiving wage subsidies should not be able to make dividends, bonuses to executives or increase management salaries in 2020 and 2021. Community support shall be aimed at saving jobs, not dividends and bonuses. The Government also proposes, with the support of the majority of the Stortinget, that aided enterprises should not be able to cancel or permit employees for whom they are receiving grants by 1 October 2020. The Workers' Party believes that the companies must undertake to retain employees for more than one month longer than they receive grants, to which the Government's proposal refers. Our proposal is that companies that receive wage subsidies should not go to redundancies of employees in 2020. We have seen in previous crises that unprofessional actors have strengthened their position on the labour market at the expense of serious enterprises with apprentices and Norwegian pay and working conditions. The Labour Party therefore promotes two proposals that will strengthen working life with full and permanent jobs and law-abiding employers. We are asking the government to ensure that all beneficiaries of wage subsidies do not have a judgment against themselves relating to labour crime, social dumping, tax evasion or non-residential offences, and we suggest that grants are not paid when the employee is to be hired, with the exception of renting between production companies. Crisis policy must be both accurate and fair. The Labour Party believes that wage subsidies are necessary at present, but it believes that the government is constantly setting up new support schemes for businesses and businesses, without requiring them. Presently, dividend peaks for firms receiving emergency aid are once again being voted down in this room. The majority will also adopt large tax cuts for those with large assets. This makes both unfair and less accurate in terms of the overall crisis policy. With that, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Labour Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e503	The representative Eigil Knutsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e508	I would also like to thank the Committee for its cooperation. Now it's important to get the wheels back on, a little after a while, and to prevent workers who are on the team who are on the perm, from standing there more than absolutely necessary. It's important for people to get back their everyday lives. The purpose of the scheme is to reduce the number of persons who have been permitted as a result of the outbreak of the virus in order to counteract the risk of a high level of unemployment. More lay-backs in jobs will also help to mitigate income inequalities that may arise as a result of the virus outbreak. The proposed scheme provides support for enterprises to take their own leave back to work. The aid shall be granted to enterprises with a fall in turnover, compared to the same month of the previous year, as a lump sum per monthly work for persons on leave who are taken back to work at least at the same rate of employment as before the leave. The aid is also granted to NPISHs, associations and foundations without acquisition for purposes, which withdraw their own rights. The scheme also includes trainees on leave. The scheme applies to July and August. Since the intention of the scheme is that the permit holders should return to work more quickly, restrictions are proposed on the employer’s opportunity to cancel or re-permit the employee and to leave and cancel other employees. Among other things, it is added. until the employee must be in employment for at least two months before the employee may be re-married. The design of the scheme focuses on its simplicity and practicality in a short time. The importance of feasibility and administrative burden in performing establishments is crucial. The pay support scheme is based on the proposals of the LO, NHO and the expert group led by Professor Holden, as well as the experience so far with the business compensation scheme. It is important that the scheme is short-term and limited. Over time, it is not sustainable for public subsidies to subsidise the wages of workers with normal productivity. Expectations must not be created that cause enterprises to adapt to the permeability behaviour of the next economic downturn. As with the previous packages of measures, it is proposed to widen the scope of the scheme and no demarcations are proposed against specific industries or industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e527	In the exceptional situation now facing Norway, the Centre Party supports the temporary compensation scheme in order to help some more lay-offs return to work. For those businesses that are now in a position where they see the possibility of increased jobs and increased activity, it is clear that it would be very beneficial to be able to get NOK 15 000 per month over two months to take back the employees who have been licensed and who are ready to do a job for the business again. At the same time, such a scheme has clear limitations, and there are also challenges in how it affects different types of activities. Although we now have a case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party in this matter, the scheme will not result in the managers around Norway going on the water. Is it — whether because of restrictions on entry, because of measures to protect infection or because of failure in the international market — that there is now no job for people, that one does not get them back to work now. Yes, we're going to have a payroll scheme, based on those that were licensed at the end of May, but we think it's important that one makes it flexible, so that companies that, in a later period of this year, see an opportunity to take back employees, will also be included in the scheme, still with a limited duration of two months per business. But the most important thing is to contribute to increased activity — make sure that there are jobs, so that people can get back to work, have something meaningful in the work, and that businesses can increase their value creation. Therefore, more vigorous action is needed than the government parties and the Progress Party have so far put on the table. There is also a need to better take better care of those companies that have really taken responsibility through the crisis and have made sure not to permit, but to have their people in work – among others. by a better mechanism to cover key costs for key personnel and minimum staff in the compensation scheme. In conclusion, other measures will also be very important, both to get people back to work and to ensure that people do not go from being out of work to becoming unemployed. Therefore, it is particularly important to extend the period of leave to 52 weeks and also to ensure reinforced measures for whom wage subsidies are actually intended: those who have reduced their working capacity and who may at present have got an even longer way into working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e542	Would the representative, Mr Gielsvik, like to take up the proposal of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e547	That's what Görlsvik will do. Thank you so much for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e552	Then the representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, has definitely taken up the proposal of the Central Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e557	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the job that has been done with this setting, and I would also like to stress that SV is pleased that such a pay subsidy scheme is now in place. In the past, we have called for more measures to get people back to work. But then there are some moments in this proposal that are worth discussing, especially when we have seen that the compensation scheme has not taken as well as we had hoped. We have e.g. received very clear messages from the hotel and travel industry that this scheme will not hit them at all. They're in a situation where they have a lot of projected and very weak prospects for more activity in the third and fourth quarters of this year. These industries are clear that what they need most is that the period of leave is extended to 52 weeks, and SV will also promote that proposal in another case. At the same time, I would encourage the government to assess other and further measures beyond the harvest, targeting those sectors that will then still be hard hit. In conclusion, I would like to join in what the representative Knutsen said about demanding those who receive support from the state – a requirement to limit dividends and bonuses. I would also like to add that we note that in this case, there is a requirement for the beneficiaries not to carry out new permits or to cancel employees during the period they receive support. This should also have been part of the compensation scheme as a requirement to secure people's jobs, and we in SV believe that there is a need to review and reconsider elements of the compensation scheme, which incorporate elements linked to wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e569	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that there is so much support that we are now getting a salary subsidy in place to get a permit back to work. It's almost unreal when we look at the numbers since the infective measures were launched in March. From an economic development that was stable and actually good economic development, we have been up to 420,000 unemployed or partially out of work. Fortunately, in April and May, those numbers went down. But there are still very high numbers for both the unemployed and the outsourced. Therefore, it is important to get this payroll subsidy scheme in place. It's important to bring down the number of lay-offs. Returning quickly to work is, of course, essential for the individual, and for the Norwegian economy. The proposal is based on the proposals of the LO, NHO and the expert group chaired by Professor Steinar Holden. The scheme is temporary and shall last for a period of two months. It is also important that it includes sports associations, humanitarian organisations, religious communities and non-profit institutions serving households, so that they too can get their leave to work. It is important, as a limitation, not to be able to implement new permits, cancel or reduce the working time of other employees in comparable positions from the start of the scheme on 28 May. So, of course, it's quite right, as it's been pointed out, that this in itself won't do enough to get back to work. It's a contribution. It's important, and it's important now. But this must be linked to all the other measures that have been implemented, both with the crisis packages in ours, what we are going to adopt on Friday – in the revised budget and the phase 3 decision to be taken there with a green conversion package – and the decisions that we made in the Stortinget with the tax arrangements for the petroleum industry last Friday. So there are many measures that lead to increased activity – both the decisions we make today, the ones we've made and the ones we're going to do in the future. But wage support for getting a permit back to work is one important measure, and it is good that there is so much consensus about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e584	The Progress Party supports the proposal made by the Government, and we are in favour of adopting that system. I record that it is part of those who have had the word before me, who also sucks into the general compensation scheme. We don't have just one compensation scheme. We have more, which are adapted to different industries and industries. What was a clear premise when we had this for treatment in Stortinget earlier, was just that we had no time to lose. We had no time to lose. We just had to put in place arrangements that hit quite wide, and that wouldn't be 100 pst. Fair at first – at least it would not experience that way. For that very reason, the government was given quite extensive powers to make changes along the way, and I record that many adjustments have been made in the compensation schemes adopted by the Stortinget, and improvements to make the right decision. This was absolutely necessary because the crisis was acute. We believe that what is proposed here with a grant scheme is well adapted to the other arrangements we have. It is clear that there is always reason to discuss the duration of this type of scheme. Our challenge is that we don't know the future 100 pst. per day. We've been through a pretty acute situation. We might see that we're about to move – not into a normal situation, but we're beginning to stretch for a new normal, and we're totally dependent on getting activity going. We have to get people back to work, and we have to get activity in our businesses and in different industries. But there are many who also report that they are most uncertain in the autumn, and they may not have noticed the most acute in the situation we are up in now, but fear that it may come later. So we have to be on guard and forward. I believe this scheme and also the other compensation schemes show how important it is not just to focus on grant schemes, because they are in any case temporary – and they must be. Therefore, it is important that we also take decisions that contribute to getting profitable businesses and profitable jobs in the long term, for example. by making improvements and changes to the tax system. One doesn't push the other. It's a combination, but something's short-sighted. What is important to return to a new normal is the long-term decisions we have taken and will make several of them – both today and Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e593	The outbreak of the virus has led to a very special and difficult situation that is lacking in parallel in the post-war period. When Norway closed down in mid-March, emergency aid was needed. Now we're in a new phase, where we need to support work, activity and necessary conversion. We have to avoid that the time off breaks down and helps more people who are on leave to get back to work. The government therefore proposes a scheme in which employers receive support for taking their own leave back to work. Although the registered unemployment rate has decreased during April, May and June, the unemployment rate is high and the number of outpatients is still very high. Long-term unemployment can have major consequences, for individuals and for society. The government’s proposals will speed up the return to work, thus reducing the risk of high levels of unemployment in Norway. Employers who withdraw their own employees may apply for wage support for July and August. Enterprises must have had a fall in turnover in order to be entitled to support. Non-profit institutions and foundations which do not have acquisitions for their purposes may also apply for support. The aid is granted as a lump sum per monthly work for persons who are retired from work and graduated according to their turnover, job breaks and permit fractions. Restrictions are placed on the employer’s access to new leave and dismissals. The scheme is a once-in-a-lifetime measure in the face of an exceptional situation. It must be short-lived and limited, because it has weaknesses and can provide unfortunate incentives for later. The scheme will come at the same time as the extension and reduction of the ordinary business compensation scheme. But state support will twist to provide more to businesses that take employees back to work. The system shall be simple and practicable to implement in a short time. The tax rate will manage the scheme and it will be added to automated procedures. Let me finally say that I am pleased that several parties have also underlined that we cannot make the companies permanent depending on such support. These aid schemes are necessary in the event of an acute crisis. They may be necessary in a transition, but then it's important that we facilitate good activity in the future. And it's also true that more representatives have pointed out that we don't know exactly what the harvest will bring. At the same time, we must not continue to resolve the crisis that was, we must go into a discussion about what could happen. That's why I've invited the social partners and business organisations to discuss and input, both to analyse the challenges we're going to face, and also to get the impression of new, effective actions that can create activity and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e617	The Labour Party has asked the Ministry how it is possible to exempt the manning industry from this pay subsidy scheme, and we received a response that it was technically demanding, and that there are industry categories that are unclear and out of date, under which it is registered. My first thought is that maybe you should update those industry categories, as a first thing to do. But my question to the Council of State in the first place is whether the department and political management considered excluding the manning industry in the design of the scheme. Or was there something you thought about first when you got a question from Stortinget about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e622	We have considered a lot of questions, and we have been particularly concerned that the system should not be misused, we must at least reduce the risk of abuse. And we also have to make it workable. That's really the core of the question here. Because, just as Nav has had a difficult situation this spring, there is no doubt that the tax rate of these schemes has also had to shift critical competence from core tasks to deal with compensation schemes. I have been briefed in a letter to the Financial Committee on the challenges that are also in the tax haven. And then we evaluate a lot of questions. Exactly exactly what is being assessed, the representative knows well that there are no questions that we're going to deal with. But the answer given by the Ministry of Finance makes it clear that there is a challenge here, and then we'll see if there are any questions we can work with beyond the harvest, and we can also look at these industry categories.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e629	I thank you for the answer, and I want to go further on what we are about. The Council of State mentioned incentives in the order in its speeches from the pulpit, and it is very important that we look at incentives in the order. For whom is it to be affected by the incentives of this scheme? Well, it's corporate managers who are going to try to increase the activity of their businesses, accelerate projects, etc., so that they can take back employees and get the activity up. So we can do a hypothetical exercise: if you're a manager of a large agency, how can you answer the incentives this system gives? Yes, you can lower the price of the labour you rent out. This is why the Labour Party fears that hired labour will strengthen its position on the labour market as a result of this scheme, and that is why we want to exempt it. Does the Council have similar concerns that hire labour can strengthen its position on the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e636	This arrangement obviously has weaknesses – I think we just have to be completely open and honest about that. I think all such arrangements do. But when we've decided to do that, it's because we're now in an extraordinary situation with such a large number of lay-offs that we want to give a strong incentive to companies to take more lay-offs back to work. That's our main purpose. Then I fully agree that there are weaknesses in that, but it is also limited by the fact that this arrangement should be temporary. It only has to last two months. For two months, they can get this powerful incentive to take the lay-off back to work, and I think it's going to work. Then we must live with the fact that there are also weaknesses in it. I see that the Labour Party is promoting a number of other proposals that go to serious work, which I agree with. This is why it is proposed to check against publicly available information that legal activity is being carried out, and also against the a-krim registers. We're going to reduce the risk of abuse, and we're going to promote serious work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e643	The ability of companies to take people back to work depends a lot on decisions taken in this room, among other things. restrictions resulting from measures to protect infection, such as: the government introduces. One of the things that both the Centre Party and the Right have been behind is the temporary amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act, such as: facilitates the return of employees to work by a number of suppliers’ industries. That's good. Some of them will also be able to benefit from this scheme. At the same time, there are a number of other establishments which, because of the measures in place, are not able to take people back now, for example. in travel and large parts of aviation. Does the Council see that there could have been a point of having a more flexible two-month period when enterprises could withdraw employees with wage subsidies, in order to ensure a greater level of non-discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e648	The representative is quite right that there are many enterprises and more industries that will face challenges beyond the harvest. That is why I have also announced that we will now have a dialogue, with the social partners, with business organisations and, of course, also with professional environments, in order to understand and assess what challenges are coming, and what will be the appropriate instruments. But for this system we believe it is important and right that it is limited in time and that it is temporary. It is also important that the tax rate can gradually begin to focus on what is at the heart of the task. The arrangements we have now had have been adapted to repair a situation that lies behind us. Now we have to start discussing how to deal with the challenges ahead of us. That is why we have also pointed specifically to travel and some hotels that we know can also wear out in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e660	Of course, this arrangement is particularly favourable to those enterprises that are in a cyclical situation, where one now sees the possibility of taking back employees, where one can take back fully employed employees with a government wage subsidy. There is, of course, a counter-performance back — that one also imposes some conditions relating to the enterprises, that they should invest in their employees, that they should contribute to increased activity, and that they should not contribute to the payment of extraordinary bonuses, management salaries in addition to normal wage increases, nor extraordinary dividends. Why do not the Government Parties and the Council of States wish to participate in such measures related to this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e665	We all agree that in the current situation, it is important that everyone shows moderation. This applies in particular to managers, and therefore moderation should be demonstrated in terms of dividends, bonuses and management salaries. But I have limited faith in the kind of detail regulation that the left-hand side adds up to. You could say that you're not allowed to make dividends now, but the result of this could just be that the dividends shift for a year or two. Owners may need to make a profit simply in order to pay taxes and taxes. Owners may take dividends to invest in new Norwegian jobs and activities. I understand the goodwill, and I understand the desire to regulate, but we also have to look at the practical effects of this, and I have limited faith that the type of instruments to which the left-hand side refers will work as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e670	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e689	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e696	As we know, the corona pandemic led to many businesses having to stop their operations with immediate effect, while others were indirectly affected by the loss of demand for goods and services. Workers were at risk of losing their jobs and it was absolutely necessary to find solutions to avoid redundancies. This is why, among other things, the employer’s obligation to pay at the beginning of a leave temporarily reduced from 15 to 2 days. This happened at a time when we knew little about how the situation was going to develop, and in order to contribute to a little predictability, the change was decided to apply until further notice. At the same time, a total increase decided to compensate the State for the loss of the employer's pay obligation to the persons on full pay up to 6G and also extended the pay period. This was correct and important for the many thousands of workers who were permitted and went into great uncertainty. The Committee stresses that compensation schemes and measures should be temporary and could be reversed when the situation so permits. I'm now explaining to the majority in the vote. The majority of the Committee points to the fact that many of the infectious diseases measures have now been lifted or are being phased out and that more and more people are coming back to work. Nav reports that of the 431,000 registered jobseekers at Nav after 12 March, more than 215 000 have now left Nav's unemployment statistics. When the activity and labour demand rise, it is suggested that the employer period can be extended again. It should not be almost free of charge for employers to perminate when the economy comes to an end. It can contribute to more permissiveness than is necessary, as both the expert group to consider the consequences of the disease control measures and the researchers at the Freshhouse suggest. In the previous debate in this Chamber, we discussed strong measures to get employers to take workers back to work through wage subsidies. It is important that the instruments we adopt do not work against each other. To this end, the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to increase the number of days of compulsory pay from two to ten days from 1 September. Since this is probably the last debate we as the committee have in the Chamber before the summer, I also take the opportunity to thank for good cooperation this year which has gone and wants the committee to have a good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e709	As the rapporteur mentioned, extensive disease protection measures were put in place in March. Many companies were required to close down, and others were indirectly affected. The result was a large number of lay-offs. It was therefore important to reduce the costs of permitting because many jobs were at risk and companies lost income by the day. But we in the Workers' Party reacted strongly to the government's solution. By reducing the employer’s period from 15 to 2 days, the burden was shifted to the employees, who were paid much less. It was therefore absolutely necessary that the Storting set up the full pay scheme for 20 days to correct the bias. Now it looks like it's coming into place, but we also see that more people are still waiting for payment. The government now proposes that the employer’s period at the beginning of a new leave be increased to 10 days from 1 September. The Labour Party supports this, but we believe it is absolutely necessary to maintain a social profile of the measures. Many experience uncertainty about work and income, and this must be reflected in measures and policies. As of 1 November, the Government will liquidate the provisional amendments to the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't want the Workers' Party. We will continue the increased rates out of the year, precisely because we are in such an uncertain time and many experience uncertainty for work and income. In this case, Red has put forward a so-called'solved' proposal in the Chamber. The Labour Party will not vote in favour of that proposal, precisely because the Red's proposals help to reduce the cost to employers. We believe it is time for employers to take part in the bill. By increasing to ten days, we think it's completely legitimate, and by keeping the higher rates at the same time, we agree to give a boost to those who need it most in this crisis. Both LO and several other social partners have been aware that we need to extend the period of leave just to ensure important environments of competence and that jobs are not lost. The government gives a wretched answer back and says that they might have to come back during the fall, but most probably not. It's a shame the government doesn't come up with stronger measures when we're in such an uncertain time. I feel that several of the measures are now being relaxed, but the map is not in line with the terrain. We need to continue the measures that protect people and secure them work and income.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e724	When we dealt with crisis package 1, which was unanimously adopted on 20 March, there was peace and tolerance in this room. Now it is no longer unanimous. The essence of today's debate is a matter of law. There is a permanent change in the law in Section 3 of the Permitting Wage Act by reducing the employer’s period I from the permanent scheme, 15 days, to 10 days. For employers, the costs of permitting are reduced in relation to the general one. For the employee there will be 62.4 pst. daily allowance from the 11th day. So it's a worse system than the one before the coronary crisis, because the employee had a full salary for 15 days, while there is now a full salary for 10 days. On March 20, we received §3b of the Permitting Wage Act, where the employer's period I was reduced to two days. It is now proposed to be lifted and the full pay obligation of the employer is increased by new leave from 1 September by eight days to 10 days. At the same time, between 1 September and 1 November 80 p.p. daily allowance up to 3G, 62.4 pst. daily allowance from 3 to 6G, and 0 above that for the period from 1 September to 1. November. And after November 1 it's 62.4 pst. up to 6G for everyone – that's how I understand it. The consequence for the State of the 20th March Decision is that: The state will release 100 pst. compensation of employees from day three to day ten, i.e. eight days, while the employer has to pay the employee the usual full salary during the 10 days The state will release 100 pst. compensation of employees from days 11 to 20 in the period from 1 September to 1. November The state will release 80 pst. the daily income allowance up to 3G after 1 November. Consequence: one imposes a heavy burden on the employer, but above all, a significant burden is placed on the employee. Thus, the impact on the employee is extensive. The proposal of the centre party is that the employer’s period I is increased to five days – I address the proposal – from 1 September. We're going in for 100 pst, so far. pay compensation from day 6 to day 20, to continue the additional daily allowance of 80 pst. from 0 to 3G in addition to 1 November, to maintain the minimum income requirement of 0,75G, to continue with 40 pst. reduced working time and the rest is shown in the adjustment. We will then introduce, finally, a new five-day period II if one goes beyond 26 weeks, i.e. from 26 to 52 weeks of daily pay, which is our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e751	Then the representative Per Olaf Lundteg mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e756	Covid-19 has had a major and negative impact on the Norwegian economy and had a significant impact on Norwegian working life. Many have been given leave, leave without a job and are at risk of loss of income. One of the most important things we did at Stortinget was to adopt action packages and take care of the people's interests as well as they could. From 10 March to 19 May, about 415,000 people registered as jobseekers. It shows how badly the business and employees were hit during the coronary crisis. On 16 March the government asked for a number of financial measures to be taken as a result of the covid-19 crisis, among others. ensuring a full salary of up to 6G for the first 20 days and that the employer would cover only two days. However, several measures for the protection of infectious diseases have now been lifted and Norway is on its way back to normal. Several go back to work, and more arrows point in the right direction. As a result, it is also necessary to amend some of the provisional laws adopted. Several experts and trade unions point to the same problem of the lay-off schemes. In the long term, it should not be nearly free to permit as the economy recovers. The promotion party does not want to return to the scheme before covid-19 for that reason, but supports extending the employer’s period from two to ten days from September 2020 – not today, not tomorrow, but almost three months in time. We believe that it makes sense, and we are pleased that almost an overall committee can agree on such a matter. I would like to point out that we have also agreed in previous debates where we have adopted action packages and crisis packages, and that it is one of the strengths of Norwegian policy that we can stand together on sensible measures when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e765	The permitting scheme that we have in Norway is an ingenious system. Tens of thousands of jobs have been threatened by this permitting scheme over the years. The fact that the system is pulsating and changed in line with the economic situation is common and good. Thus, in SV we support the extension of the employer period from two to ten days a few months in advance. But what is the greatest need now is clearly that the arrangements are extended to cover 52 weeks. There have been times of crisis in the past, and the social partners are crying out for this now. The situation is very critical for many industries, for example: hotel food. Almost the entire conference season in the fall has been cancelled, and many added have three months' notice period. It is quite obvious that these employers need a care for 52 weeks of length of leave now before the summer. It is simply not enough to wait until after the summer, as the government tells them to do. I'm afraid we're going to have far more settlements this summer than would have been necessary if the government had flexibility in the length of the permit period, which has been common in previous times of crisis. Here I think the government has to do a U-turn in time before we get a load of cancellations during the summer holidays, which could easily be avoided. There's no shame in turning around. When I look at the merged setting, SV is in a comment that can be interpreted more negatively when it applies to the permitting scheme than SV does. Of course, we in SV don't think it's negative that the lay-off arrangement has led to more lay-offs in Norway than in comparable countries, simply because it's one of the things that makes us likely to get better through this crisis than if we hadn't had this scheme and made the changes that were made. After all, they don't have as good permancy arrangements as we do in Norway, in other countries. We are, however, in the comment to show the positive fact that there are several people who are being outsourced in Norway. We are voting in favour of the government's proposal, and we are insisting that the system of leave be extended to 52 weeks before the summer, just so that people get a good summer with the permissiveness requested by the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e776	The Covid-19 pandemic has seen us and the whole world under test. Fortunately, with cooperation, knowledge and intelligence, the frequency of infection decreases in most countries. In this country, as we know, restrictive measures were in place to prevent the spread of infection, measures that have been too much and very extensive. Actions have cost, and they have works. It means that there is little infection again, the schools and the workshops are turning again, and the situation for the country is getting better day by day. Everyone has been loyal to the public regulations we have received, including Ola and Kari Nordmann, Prime Minister and King. And thanks go to everyone. From 10 March to 19 May 2020, more than 400,000 people registered as jobseekers, nearly 85 pst. has given a permit as a reason. The starting point for the reduction in the employer’s period was that he should be temporary and should be reversed when the exceptional situation related to the covid-19 pandemic decreased. When many of the infectious diseases measures have now been lifted or are being phased out, it is expected that the activity and demand for labour will be absorbed. This means that the employer’s period will be extended again. Businesses that were hard hit by the crisis are likely to already have completed the permits they are going to, and are therefore less affected by a change in the employer’s payroll now. As of 20 April this year, the government has gradually taken the lead in the fight against infectious diseases, and many initiatives have started up again. As a result, there is less need for permitting and the basis for a very limited wage obligation is gradually being reduced. Uncertainty about future developments still means that the temporary scheme returns to a 15-day payroll period is not fully reversed at present. From this point of view, the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's plural recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e789	The Korona crisis is intensifying class divisions in Norway. Those who have lost the job have gone for several months without getting the money they have right on, while on the other hand you see records in both the boat and cabin markets, which we read about in the media. We want to secure the income of workers who are being or are losing their jobs, but the government parties are proposing instead to cut back on the Great Britain's improvements to the unemployment schemes. The problem here is not the legislative proposal that employers pay more to avoid more lay-offs, but that the government wants the government to run from its part of the bill. The government signaled that the pay compensation scheme would be in place during the first half of June – now we have the phase. In the first half of June, only half of the persons on leave had received compensation for pay. As we've realized, it's likely that up to 20 pst. by those who are licensed are not covered by this scheme until the summer. Then the council announces a new arrangement next week, that is, where the employer has not applied for it on behalf of the state. But there will still be a great risk that not everyone will get payments, that they will have to be handled manually. Nav will not be up-to-date with its treatment of daily allowance applications until July. There has been a sale for urgent payment to the unemployed who have not received the money they are entitled to, and who may have to go into the public holiday without money. In any case, I would like to ask the Council of State to answer two specific questions. First, how many will not be caught by the pay compensation scheme that is now in place? Secondly, can the Council of State guarantee that everyone on leave wants to have money on the account before the summer? The government first proposed to cut the income for the lay-off, which ordered the Storting up to. So it went three months before we got a plan in place. Before it came and was open to application, the government proposed to wind it up again. We believe that to be profoundly provocative. We do not want to push the bill for the crisis into the labour force. We want to extend the full compensation scheme for the first 20 days, i.e. the March decision of the Storting. Then the bill will be shared fairly, 10 days to the employer and 10 days from the government. This does not mean, as the Labour Party said, that our proposal involves reducing the costs of the employer, on the contrary, is what we are proposing. Today the employer pays for two of these days. Our income protection proposal will be good not only for those involved, but also for the entire social economy. We need a crisis programme for work, income and well-being for everyone. That is the background to the Red's proposal, which I am therefore addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e804	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e810	When the outbreak of the virus in March stopped Norwegian economy, it was necessary to relax the legislation on permitting in order to secure businesses and prevent them from going beyond the end, and that unemployment was acute and abruptly high. At the same time, the legislation on permitting can also counteract activity. It is therefore necessary to phase out the interim measures where circumstances so warrant, in order to facilitate work and conversion, which in turn facilitate safer and safer jobs in the long term. The degree of permeability is decreasing sharply. Since the end of April to Tuesday last week, 88 000 fewer persons have been registered on full leave. That's more than a half of the number. In the same period, there has been an increase in the number of partial lay-offs, but in the last two weeks, the figure has also decreased. The number of new permits has also fallen. Among new jobseekers in May, 15 600 people gave leave as a reason, a decrease from 57 000 in April. We're still expecting a reduction in the amount of permits in the future. The development of leavencies, the phasing out of many of the infectious diseases control measures and the recovery of economic activity make it reasonable to change the pay obligation period from two to ten days from 1 September. The employer’s period must be seen in the context of compensation for the posted workers. When the pay obligation period is extended, we also propose to wind up the temporary scheme with 18 days of compensation of pay. The changes proposed here must be seen in the context of other measures and proposals contained in the revised national budget and in Prop. 127 S for 2019-2020, which Stortinget will be considering on Friday. In order to contribute to greater predictability and fewer redundancies, it is proposed that the exemption from pay be extended to 31 October. Furthermore, the government announces that we will come back with an assessment of whether there is a need to further extend the period of exemption from pay. The Government maintains that the temporary amendments to the daily allowance scheme are liquidated as of 1 November. At the same time, we are aware that the uncertainty about the development of the Norwegian economy is high in the future, and therefore we also write clearly that we will return to Stortinget after the summer with a new assessment of the phase-out of the temporary changes in the day-to-day money legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e828	We've started to get a lot of figures on who's been hit hardest by the crisis, and we know that it's those who have the least savings, those who can have the toughest fixation on the labour market in the first place, who are hit hardest. When we have facts on the table, that it is those who have the least to go with from before, that have been hit hardest, I wonder: What assessments has the government made when it ends up in an employer's ten-day period, but at the same time cuts in the higher rates and will not extend the period of leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e833	Firstly, I agree with the premise, and that is the fact that economic crises are affecting the social fabric. Those who are hit hardest are those who are on leave, lose the job, in the worst case, have to wait for money and have no savings to live on. This is why it has been important, for example. to put in place an advance plan for daily allowances, because the payment is very late for some. We must come back to the harvest with a more detailed description of the temporary measures adopted by the Storting. But it is worth noting that the Storting adopted this as temporary measures. That is, if there is an overall argument of justice that is to be put in here, these would be arrangements that you should have had before. It is not, it was adopted as temporary income hedges because the coronary crisis was and is an extreme situation, where exceptional measures were required.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e840	I think we all agree that this is an extreme situation, but precisely because the Korona crisis cannot be compared to any other crises, we believe that there is no basis for already taking down the reinforced safety net that is in place through the Storting. Now we heard at the latest on the NRK radio in the morning today that a clear LO and a clear NHO announced that they wanted to extend the period of leave, precisely in order to avoid redundancies during the summer, and to preserve important environments of competence. Then I wonder: does the Council of State share the reflections of the head of Tekna, who believes that this contributes to lock-in, or will the Council of State rather send people into a labour market where it is almost impossible to get a job in some industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e849	The reason why the scheme is extended is that right now there is really no labour market to send people out into. And then both Tekna, LO and NHO are right, because both of them are actually right at the same time: we have the permitting mechanism, and an important argument to extend it is that we believe we should maintain environments of competence that will come back after a short-term crisis. On the other hand, if the law of permacy is extended and we don't get these environments of competence in industries that don't come back at the same level, we've actually only been exposed to the fact that people can and will seek a new job. In the worst case, there are other parts of Norwegian working life that need the labour force and that can also provide pay and permanent work instead of leave. It is the balance that lies in any discussion of the law on permitting, and that is why the government has also said that we need to look at developments a little more, including in the world economy, and come back to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e856	The law we are dealing with now applies to two legal paragraphs. We will cut out Section 3(b) of the Permitment Act, which is for a temporary period, and so, and the most important thing: One should amend Section 3 of the Permitment Act, which is a general scheme, for all future, where the employer period I is reduced from 15 to 10 days. That also means that the employee gets 62.4 pst. up to 6G, not from 15 days, which is the general rule, but from 10 days forward. My question is, is there a balanced distribution of burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e863	The representative Lundtigen is right, except in one thing, and that's when he says "for all future". For the law on permitting which is primarily contractual between the parties, but which today's case also shows a political, legal and admissibility side, we use flexibly based on the situation there and there. Then it is quite right that we do not propose a temporary change of ten days for employers, we suggest that it becomes the new normal – that is, that it is passed into law. But it was increased to fifteen days on 1 January 2019. So it's not like that it's been fifteen days in infinite times, and it's now suddenly ten days. This is actually a piece we use to take into account both employees and employers. It must also be mentioned that, in the government's proposal, there were also significant issues for workers, including: removal of the withdrawal dates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e872	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e879	It is true, as the Council of State says, that the government uses this as a knit, and the knit is now the hardest for the workers by changing the law so that the employer's period I is permanently reduced from 15 days to 10 days. And from 1 November, the employee's benefits on the basis of the government's proposal are not 80 pst. for the first 3G, but 62.4 pst. from 0 to 6G. It is quite strong that the government is running as tough in a situation as the one we now have. With the enormous unemployment that we have, and the huge package of measures we have in the oil and other industries, you choose to be so brutal at this point. I think there are a few people who have taken over what is here the government's proposal. Most people have seen an increase in the employer’s period I from two days to ten days, but there is really a small case in comparison with a reduction from 15 days to 10 days and with a low benefit. The centre party wants to have a burden-sharing that's fair. We want to have good general arrangements, so that one thus gets less need for complicated supplementary schemes that have great weaknesses. Therefore, we promote the proposals we have, and we are hard pressed that we have to increase the daily allowance period from 26 to 52 weeks, but if an employer extends the daily allowance period from 26 to 52 weeks, a new employer’s five-day period, which the employer has to pay, is set at an employer’s cost. It is said here that the current system is too favourable for the employer. I think the employers are happy that someone got a general rule, so that you could avoid the problems that would otherwise arise. I believe that all employers and employees are aware that any statutory leave actually involves a cost both for the company and for the employee, because the employee does not have the close relationship with the company, which is crucial. The centre party is in favour of a balanced solution, and that is our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e890	I can first say that Red of course supports the requirement to extend the maximum length of leave to 52 weeks in order to maintain competence and provide workers with security, which both LO and NHO require. It proposed Red already in March and last Friday in Stortinget, but it has been voted down so far. I hope we can get a majority in the Chamber today to actually get an impact on a claim that is important both for businesses and for employees. With regard to our proposal to ensure an urgent payment to those who have not received the money that they are entitled to, Røres Nordby Lunde has called it Reinspicka populism. I'll call it common sense. It is common sense that those who are entitled to money from the community, who have been waiting for it for three months, who have a lot of savings, who have lived on relatives and friends, went to the Salvation Army to get food, now they get the money they need, before the summer. That's common sense in our vision. Then we know that Nav is doing well, finally, and that's important, and that many people now get the money they've been waiting for for for months and that they're entitled to, but we also know that there will be a lot of people where the employer doesn't report, and that it can take a long time with individual treatment before they get the money they're actually entitled to. That's why Red suggests that those who don't get this money before the summer – that could be anything from 2 pst. until 20 pst. of those who are entitled to the money – to have a flat amount paid before the summer, which after the summer can be offset against what they should have received. It will be an unbureaucratic system. It will not require a new application-based scheme. It would be to pay out money to those who can't get processed before the summer comes, and who may have to leave the farm and land before the summer comes if they don't get anything to go with. I just want to repeat the questions I asked the Council of State in the main article: Can you say how many people don't want to be caught by the pay compensation scheme that's in place? And can the Council of State guarantee that everyone on leave wants money on the account before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e902	I'll say a little bit about it. First, a day’s money: If a day’s money is paid, Nav says that because it is 460,000 – one hundred times in a few weeks, compared to normal – they will be up-to-date by the end of July. As a result, an advance plan for daily allowances was established. It has been treated approx. 269 600 applications and paid out approx. 3.8 B.C.E. kr. The scheme will continue. This means that anyone who has the right to a daily allowance, even if the application for a daily allowance has not been dealt with, can apply for an advance and will have it paid. So to pay compensation: for most people – and I understand that people are impatient, so am I – it's a refund of a salary they should have had in the past. The scheme was ready on 9 June. The last time I checked it was about 180,000 payments, but this changes from hour to hour. It's important to remember that this is a different group than those who are entitled to a daily allowance. For example, a student who has a permit will not be entitled to a daily allowance, but will be entitled to compensation for salary. So Moxne's question is, do we know who's not being caught? No, we don't know that exactly now. Employers are currently sending in for tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of workers. We do not know which employers do not want to submit, but we hope and believe that as much as possible will do so, and then the money comes into the account after two to three days. As a safety valve, we must also have the opportunity to apply individually, if you do not have a hopeless employer or for some reason you do not submit. It alerts Nav that they aim to have ready in the next week. There is the equivalent: it is not manual processing – this needs to be automated because it needs to reach as many people as possible. Then the answer is that what I can say is that the money is coming. If you're entitled to a daily allowance, you're entitled to an advance. If you are entitled to a daily allowance, you will receive the full daily allowance when the application is processed. If you are entitled to compensation for pay, you will receive your money on an individual application if the employer does not send in. But hour by hour, there are thousands of people who have waited, who get the money paid out. Then it's a practical problem, and that's that we don't know who won't get them paid out. We do not know which employers may not send in – if any. This means that not only will an automatic advance plan fail for those who are partially outsourced, who are at risk of being left with a bill they have to pay to Nav, but you also risk delaying the payment of the wage compensation itself by setting up an advance plan, both because you have to work with it and use technical skills to get it done. If you want to meet it accurately and do not risk the payment of compensation before the advance, you have to make sure that it is coordinated, which in turn can lead to additional delays – unfortunately – although I understand the good intention behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e913	There has been reference to the fact that the changes we are adopting today are permanent changes in the law. That's right. But this law has also been amended several times in recent years — up and down with the economic cycle. And that's a little bit of the law. Just because it deals with leavencies, it needs to be changed in line with economic trends in the labour market and in the labour market. For this reason, the Labour Party has not taken a decision as to whether it is 10 days for the employer period I, which is the rule for all time. Most likely that won't be right. We have to have movement in this law, in line with the economic cycle. So we believe that this is the right solution now, because the situation we're in here and now, but we have to constantly come back to what it's going to look like when the labour market changes. It may be true that we go back to an employer's period of 15 days. So again, the government is leaning heavily on the Holden Committee, which has evaluated the measures. This sample also points to the fact that in the case of a high number of leavers beyond the harvest, it is absolutely necessary to extend the period of leave. But then I wonder: When this sample also says that this may be necessary when there are a high number of lay-offs – how long should employers and employees sit on the tweezers and wait for answers on whether there will be an extension? Unfortunately, the result I suspect may be more cancellations, because you do not dare to wait. The working party will extend the period of leave out of the year. Then, in the state budget, we have to come back to whether it is necessary to extend further. The same applies to the height of the bets. We simply have to look at the situation in the labour market then. But here and now you need an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e922	First to the urgent payment of compensation of pay: No, I don't think it's really common sense now to oblige Nav to implement another scheme that will delay the payments when they're about to get up to date. The government put in place an advance scheme – when we saw Nav struggling with the payments – that many have not applied for. I would strongly encourage them to do that before you possibly go to Matsentralen to get what you need. I remember that Stortinget was well aware that the changes made to the income insurance schemes would lead to delays, and I show, among other things, that. to a question from the Labour Party on 13 March 2020 in connection with the treatment of Prop. 52 S for 2019-2020. Where the Ministry clearly stated that the establishment of any new income insurance schemes would not be possible in the short term, i.e. it could take several months to put in place new systems. I understand very well those who are angry and cursed because they have not received their money, but we who are sitting in this room must at least take some responsibility for the decisions we make. I would also like to remind you that the permit law has been amended many times – in terms of both the number of days of compulsory pay for the employer and the number of weeks of entitlement to daily pay. During the financial crisis, the red-green period of pay reduced to five days without full compensation of pay. So in a red-green language suit, the Working Party, the Center Party and the Swedish bill sent to the people who were on leave. That is to say, there are three days' difference between what the Workers' Party itself is doing, and what they are reacting strongly to in this room – as well as what the Center Party at that time thought was reasonable, and what they are now characterizing as being brutal. In this round, there was an overall increase – also with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party – that helped to extend the government's immediate measures and provided full compensation for the perms. It was, as I said in the main post, important and right to do it. I fully agree with the SV that the permitting scheme is ingenious. Yes, I think it both ensures jobs and can maintain skills environments, but it can also be misused and should be a last choice, not a first choice, which I hope today's decisions will contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e939	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e944	When the Centre Party enters to have five days in the employer's period I into Section 3 of the Permitting Wage Act, it is based on the tradition that Section 3 of the Permitting Wage Act has been amended according to the business cycle, and that's what we say. We have that proposal combined with the higher rates, so far, in the situation we're in. Both rates and employer periods I and II are re-assessed at the end of the crisis. With regard to the Red's proposal, the Senter Party will vote against it. The justification is very simple, because we have an employer's period I of five days, which means that we go for full compensation of pay up to 6G from the sixth to the twentieth day. That's the logical consequence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e951	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e956	There are some practical objections from the Council of State that it is entirely possible to resolve. What is not solved is if Stortinget takes a summer vacation without ensuring that the unemployed get money. In March, the government would deprive those who are being permitted of 10 to 13 days of full income. They also warned against providing compensation for salaries initially, and before a krona was paid, they also proposed to wind up the scheme. That is why it is quite natural and logical for the Council of States to warn against Red's proposals, but in order to ensure that they are legitimized, the proposal is, in our view, absolutely necessary. So the cut that's been paid so far is $20,900 in compensation for pay. Very few will get too much with the proposal we are making. If they get too little, it can easily be solved afterwards after the summer. Now the job is to get the money out before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e965	I understand the intention, what Red wants with his proposal. I would also like to say, as I have said before, that if we had thought about and imagined a situation of 460,000 lay-offs and lay-offs in such a short time, we should have thought differently from both government and big business about how to get money out quickly, instead of creating completely new systems. The problem with Moxnes' reasoning when he says that the average is NOK 20 000 – that's probably the right number – is just that everyone is not 100 pst. Permitted. It's just one example of a practical problem that's pretty real. Very many are now licensed between 100 pst. and down to 40 pst. position. This means that if you are partially on leave, you should not have compensation for your entire salary. It's just one example of a practical problem. Besides that it's very hard to figure out who's not being reached right now, because it changes hour by hour, you risk paying out too much. You might say it's okay, but for a full-time student with a part-time job, who suddenly gets NOK 20 000 in the account and three weeks later gets a bill from Nav with a message to pay back, it might not be perceived as so well in the length. Another challenge is that even though Nav has done something that I think is wise, that they have built their own digital environment and do a lot of 'in-house', as it's called in the fine language, it's not that completely different people can work with these kinds of solutions than those who work with individual wage compensation solutions. This means that if they get another new task, even if the intention is good, the danger is quite great that the compensation payments will also be delayed. If there is one thing we have experience of during this crisis, it is also that practical issues become real issues in everyday life to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e976	Several have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e993	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1010	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, there will be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1017	Measures such as quarantine and isolation after close contact with a person confirmed as covid-19 have until now been regulated in the covid-19 regulation. This regulatory home allows for time-limited measures. A unanimous committee agrees that the measures should be remedied if they are to last for a longer period of time and the entire committee is behind the recommendation. The Committee will have a shorter working time for the new temporary basis adopted here. The majority halve the working time until June 2021 and request that a new legislative draft be sent to the hearing in good time. Emergency legislation should be amended as far as possible when we are in the middle of a pandemic. We can't now know how the situation will develop. Therefore, we also open up different approaches in different parts of the country to the measures in § 4-3a, which can be adopted for the whole country, or for parts of the country. A unanimous committee considers that isolation of infected persons should be one of the measures that may be needed in the future, even after society becomes more normalised. The essential requirements for the disease protection measures laid down in the Directive require that the measure be repealed as soon as this is no longer necessary. Furthermore, it is assumed that a medical/professional assessment has been carried out which suggests that the measure will be an effective instrument to prevent the spread of covid-19 and provides a framework for the type of regulations that can be adopted under the new legal framework. The obligations that can be imposed on individuals in the regulation will be privacy and freedom of movement. These are fundamental rights and rights under the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. In order to be able to interfere with the rights under the Basic Law §§ 102 and 106 and the EMK Article 8 paragraph. 2 and Additional Protocol 4 No. 2 requires a specific assessment which must now form the basis of the regulations. There has been a proposal from the Central Party on the Anti-Septic Stop App, and I will refer you to the Director of the Institute for Public Health, who points out that one has already benefited from the app. It is only temporarily closed, and it is closed in order to have a dialogue with the Data Protection Authority on the circumstances they have addressed in their letter. The part that the Centre Party is proposing to remove is the part of the solution that the Institute has already benefited from. It has given new knowledge of people's movements and close contact, which is an important knowledge base for our preparedness. FHI is already working to assess whether it is possible to share the function, but it should leave it up to the individual to choose whether they will be involved in both or just infection tracking. The proposal will lead to a loss of the entire knowledge part, and the FHI is very clearly useful. I have an alternative proposal that I now intend to make. It reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to change the Contagion Stop application and to ensure that those who download the app are given the opportunity to share their consent. One for the detection of infection and one for the acquisition of knowledge.’ I think it makes more sense, because the second proposal will stop the app, and that makes us not have it available. The size falls apart on Friday, and it will stop an important part of our preparedness for covid-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1043	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1048	The infectious arrest app was supposed to revolutionize the way we carry out infection tracking in Norway, a national agency where each of us was to state privacy in order to save lives. But this app hasn't saved a single life, it can't even be used for infection tracking. People who have downloaded it have been tricked. The app has been a pure surveillance, so a state does not have to operate with it. I am therefore pleased that the Data Protection Authority has put the foot down, that the app has been deactivated, and that all the information collected has been deleted. The technology is simply miserable, the effect has been lacking, and it has challenged privacy across new borders. The conclusion of Amnesty International states that Norway’s infectious arrest app is among the three worst in the world on privacy. There is a violation of human rights, there is a serious overrun of privacy, and there is very extensive surveillance, which goes far beyond what is proper in stopping coronary infection. Proposals have been made in this case to amend the Discontinuance app in order to use it only for the detection of infection, which also preserves privacy. I think the technology is unable to use an app for infection tracking, the position data is too unprecise. It's an aberration of up to 13 meters. That means that people walking around a public building can alert hundreds of people that they have been exposed to a risk of infection that they have actually not been exposed to. This is because an app can never take account of the actual position data, nor can it take account of different barriers, such as: a wall. The Director of the Public Health Institute and the Minister of Health have also been honest that the Sickness Stop app cannot replace manual infection detection, but ok: The Progress Party will support the proposal of the Centre Party and provide the Public Health Institute with an opportunity to change the app so that it can assist both in the detection of infection and, if possible, in the warning of persons who have been in a situation of real risk of infection — if possible. It must then be done in such a way that it effectively respects each individual’s fundamental right to privacy. I hereby inform you that we support the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1057	This bill sent the government to listen for less than 48 hours, proposing that the promise should be for two years. The most interventional measures have been removed. The law shall apply only to covid-19, and not to general communicable diseases. However, several hearing bodies, such as the infectious diseases and the Public Health Institute, have pointed out that the current law provides an adequate basis for action. Many hearing authorities also respond to the fact that the right to provide regulations is beyond what is necessary and that decision-making procedures relating to the relevant measures for the protection of infectious diseases have been poorly described, so that legal certainty does not seem to be adequately ensured. In its input to the Committee, the Association of Advocates states that the proposal clearly allows for very intrusive individual obligations, but does not, at all, reflect the design of the proposal. Equally, the proposal provides a stricter penal framework and, in a comitology note, the legal secret has been sought to insure a better framework. The centre party believes that this comment must be understood in such a way that the amendment to the law is to be adopted does not authorise the introduction of any more invasive disease protection measures than that introduced by the covid-19 regulation. This applies to penalties, quarantine and isolation destinations. All objections contradict the promise of a long working time. The centre party cannot accept a temporary law that lasts longer than until 1 November. In the meantime, a normal hearing process needs to be ensured. I would like to inform you that we will vote against the proposition if the proposal for a reduced working time falls. We can't accept a working time of one year, as the majority suggest. The centre party has made a loose proposal to ask the government to change the Contagion Stop application and to ensure that the application is used for the detection of infection and that the data protection legislation is enforced. Today, the news was that the Norwegian Smittenstop app is being considered among the worst in the world on privacy. According to Amnesty, Norway is making a serious overrun of privacy with very interventional surveillance, which goes far beyond what is justified in stopping coronary infection. At the request of the Data Protection Authority, the Public Health Institute has deleted all data from the app and has currently stopped data collection. The Data Protection Authority believes that the collection is an excessive interference in privacy and is particularly critical that the Public Health Institute has chosen to use GPS in the infection tracking section. This is contrary to what both the Verda Health Organisation and the European Data Protection Council call for, since it is such an interference with the privacy of people. Most other European countries have opted for a solution where the information is stored on the phone and not centrally. So there are other ways to do this that are not so intrusive to privacy. That is why we are pleased to make a proposal in the Stortinget today, and I take up the proposal of the Central Party No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I also take up proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1070	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1075	We need a law of infection with good authority. It is important and right that a person who is infected can be quarantined when it can help to minimise the infection. But this proposal had consultation for less than 48 hours. We should have a thorough and open process, but we didn't get it. The law has become a little better thanks to organisations and professionals working fast and effectively to change the first draft of the government. In the first draft, the rules were to apply to all common infectious diseases, not only covid-19, and persons who did not have consent were also to be quarantined. It has been changed due to professional advice outside the government. That's good. Yet we are asking for a better process. This law has so radical measures that people should have better time to ensure a good process. We need a bigger and better consultation with all parties. That is why we propose that the law should have a deadline of 1 November 2020. It gives the government sufficient time to ensure a good process before an extension is introduced. SV believes that the government's proposal provides for too wide powers of punishment. It is difficult to understand why the government parties will not support a remark to lie down at the same level as in the covid-19 regulation. SV would strongly encourage government parties to support a shorter working time. SV will, however, vote in favour of the law even if this proposal falls, because we believe that this law will, after all, affect the restrictions better than the very well-known §7-12 of the IPD Act will allow.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1086	It's been a strange spring. I think we all agree on that. After the Korona Act ended on 27 May, the expectation of Stortinget is that we will set up the best possible processes for the changes in the mandate and the provisions of the government. That is why the Labour Party is behind the criticism of the minority in the vote, and we are also behind the proposal to which the representatives Wilkinson and Toppe referred. We also want to vote in favour of the law when those proposals fall, but we therefore believe that we must continue to strive for the most ordinary processes possible in order to ensure that the hearing is conducted in the best possible way. So I'll say something about the solutions that have been promoted. The infectious detection app has had many warnings from the day it was launched. The Data Protection Authority has now announced that they will oppose it because, in their view, their privacy concerns are not protected by the law. For us in the Working Party, there are some controversies about how to retrieve data from this app. What we have the biggest challenges with is the link between providing data to protect ourselves by using the app and at the same time providing data to the authorities so that the authorities can develop knowledge, monitor the actions they have undertaken, and evaluate them on an ongoing basis. For us in the Working Party, it is very important that it is separated by consent. This will be done in the proposal that the representative of Stensland has put forward, so we will support it, but we also have sympathy for the proposal that has been promoted by the Central Party, so it is fine if we can add a voting method in which we vote on the representative of Stensland's proposal first, so that we can vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Central Party if the other does not get a majority. The Minister of Health has a considerable job to do in relieving the trust that has now been lost in the use of the infectious detection app. The characteristics that have come in recent days from important hearing bodies that this is privacy that belongs to other regimes, with totalitarian authority views, are very devastating to the Norwegian population, who generally have great confidence in health authorities and are very willing to allow their data to be used for knowledge development where it serves a purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1101	The government's objective is that the spread of infection should be under control at all times, so that the burden of the disease is low and the number of patients is manageable in the healthcare system. The flare-up of the infection must be shut down. We don't have much infection in society now, but we still know little about what the future will bring. We still don't have a vaccine, we still don't have a treatment and we still have the virus in the community. The virus can cause new large waves of infection in this country, and we have to be prepared for a long time. It's, as everyone knows, keeping your distance, washing your hands and keeping us at home when we're sick. In addition, we need to test and isolate infected people, track down who the infection has been transmitted, and put people who have been in close contact with an infected person, in quarantine, so-called infectious quarantine. Infectious quarantine is essential for the control of covid-19, especially since infected without symptoms can infect others without knowing for themselves. This bill will provide temporary regulatory support to continue isolation and infectious quarantine in connection with the covid-19 pandemic. These measures are currently governed by the covid-19 provisions of Sections 8 and 11 and are based on the special authority of the King which has a temporary character. It is essential that we have a clear legal basis now before the summer in order to be able to continue these measures. A specific assessment of the essential requirements for disease protection measures in Sections 1 to 5 must be carried out in order to establish a regulation after that provision. The requirements require clear medical justification, the measures must be necessary for the protection of the infection and it must be considered appropriate after an overall assessment. This provision thus requires a proportionality assessment of measures under the law, as provided for in order to be able to intervene under the Basic Law and human rights. I would also like to stress that there will be no need for access to force after the provision of the bill. This provision proposes criminal response in the same way as the rest of the law on infectious diseases. But I would like to make it clear that it aims to continue the same level of penalties that is under current regulation. The Covid-19 regulation has clear rules without large administrative resources being used to take individual decisions. The population has concluded up on the measures in a good way. I therefore believe that we should continue to regulate isolation and infectious quarantine in this way, and that we therefore need this home. Finally, a few words about the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal of the Centre Party will weaken Norway’s preparedness to meet this pandemic. This pandemic has taught us that knowledge is something that is crucial to collect quickly in dealing with the pandemic. I'm glad that the government party's alternative publishing house seems to have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1126	I have basically just one specific question: Is it possible for an infectious detection app to replace manual infection detection?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1133	An infective detection app will facilitate and improve the effectiveness of the manual detection of infection. That's what's also been the purpose of the infection tracking app. The infectious detection app is voluntary, as opposed to traditional transmission tracking. This means that it is the individual who decides whether or not to download this app, but infection tracking in Norway is not voluntary, so in the traditional detection of infection, each of the inhabitants of our country has a duty to inform about who has been in close contact with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1138	I know that, but the question is, will it be able to replace manual infection tracking? If an app cannot replace manual infection detection, I would like to have it confirmed by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1143	That question has already been answered by the representative of Bruun-Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1148	Before the next row, the President will draw attention to the fact that the Stensland proposal has now been multiplied and is on each side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1153	I first have a line to the very cause we're dealing with, to change the law on infectious diseases. It is a comment from the entire committee that is supposed to frame so that homes are not so known, and the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV have a comment that we believe that one must understand it as ‘that the amendment does not give authority to introduce more intrusive infectious measures than that introduced by the covid-19 regulation’ when it applies to both punishment, quarantine and isolation destinations, etc. The Council of State can guarantee that it will follow up the comment and intention behind it, and that it will not be able to go further, for example. in the case of isolation, than that which has been practised under the covid-19 regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1160	I think I can say that we agree on the intention, but it also depends a little on how far the representative Toppe will draw the intention. Because as I said in my post, we have e.g. no plans to change the level of penalties in this case. What's the problem with that comment is that it can also be understood in a different way. If we, for example, new knowledge of the infectious properties of this virus may require an extension of the time during which one expects people to be in isolation. This is a time that has already been changed because of new knowledge. Thus, if it had received the support of a majority, it would have deprived us of the opportunity to base, for example. the requirement for time in isolation for professional assessments, and that would have been unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1165	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1172	Now there has been a proposal from the Chair here today as an alternative, which is special, but I understand that it is approved. I have looked at the wording of it, but first, what is critical of this proposal is that it is still not clear how this should be organised. I want to go back to the time before the Contagion Stop app was introduced. Then there was criticism of this application on two points in particular. One was that the source code of the application was not published. Then professionals came in before both law and technology and said that publishing the source code was necessary, because only then could one test the claims of the authorities about how the application works, and possibly reveal a security hole in software. The European Data Protection Council was among those who were very clear on this, but who did not follow Norway. The second criticism was that information on the movement patterns of the inhabitants is stored on central servers, rather than on the local mobile phone. According to the IT profession, central storage is not necessary to fulfill the purpose of the application, e.g. to stop the spread of infection. On the other hand, it is necessary to assess the effectiveness of infectious measures and models of infectious development. My question to the government council and the government party is: Do their suggestions still want to keep this personal information on a central server? In that case, the proposal from the Government Party does not matter. Our proposal is that we agree to an infection tracking app that is stored on the mobile phone, which is not in violation of privacy policy. But a central storage is in conflict with that. Therefore, I maintain my proposal, which is clear as to what we actually want. This proposal is not a matter for the Central Party today. I sent a question to the Council of State already on 19 April, asking if he looks at the effect of other measures to prevent infection as a sufficiently heavy consideration for using central storage of movement patterns for the inhabitants. So we've meant the same thing all the way, but there's a lot of criticism now, and so we have to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1183	What the government parties stand by here is that the stop app is good for the acquisition of knowledge, because then you can see through this app where the population is at any time, every minute throughout the day – where they move, and who they meet. This is information that the government wants to be available. This, of course, raises many questions about privacy information being stored safely. Unfortunately, we have a story in Norway that sensitive personal information comes at a loss when public agencies have brought it in. In 2018, we had an ICT scandal in Health South-East, where personal information about three million people got out of control. In 2019, personal data from 9 000 employees in the tax base were balanced. Last week, there was one thing about Oslo University Hospital storing sensitive information about her patients on her own websites – but leave it alone. In this case, the Data Protection Authority is doing a thorough job of monitoring how the government is doing with this app, and they have now put their feet down. The Data Protection Authority considers that there is no proportionality between the information collected, i.e. the cost to privacy and to citizens, measured against its utility. I'm recording that this is getting a majority today. Just to clarify something: the Labour Party said in its statement that they want to support the government parties primarily and the proposal of the Centre party subsidiaryly. It's going to be a strange way of voting, because the Labour Party and the Right here have a majority alone, so then the Labour Party supports the Government. They do not do so on the basis that they are concerned about privacy at least, or on the basis that they are concerned about the utility of this app. There is then a two-part division of the approval system to be included in the app, and there is probably something that the Data Protection Authority has nevertheless addressed. But the Data Protection Authority has concluded that there is no proportionality about the privacy costs measured against the benefits here. I find it a little strange that a large opposition party like the Workers' Party does not see the value of listening to the Data Protection Authority, but it also seems more comfortable to follow the Right in this matter. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports proposal No. 2, from the Center Party, and no other proposal in this matter. We are behind the Committee's position. My starting point is that the proposal from the Central Party is the proposal that will restrict the state's access to monitoring the population, even though I'm probably even more critical of the Contagion Stop app than the Central Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1198	I'll comment on the last two posts. First to the representative Toppe's question related to the source codes: Yes, it is quite correct that we have chosen not to publish the source codes for this app. The reason for this is to make it less vulnerable to e.g. hacking. However, in order to meet what has been a major objection, namely that open source codes could reveal vulnerability, the government reduced an independent expert group of technologists, who had access to the source codes. They have worked on these and pointed out vulnerabilities that the Institute of Public Health has then used to follow up and close the vulnerabilities that have been pointed out here. The same group of experts also proposed that the Public Health Institute should consider sharing the consent in two, so that one could choose to consent to the infectious detection component in order to protect themselves and their surroundings, but could also agree to share in providing knowledge of their own movements to a national collection that contributes to a knowledge base in order to assess how we are going to handle the pandemic, including. with measures. There's this government party now promoting here in the hall, which also seems to have a majority. It will, of course, be a strengthening of privacy because the individual then, through a consent, also says that a person wants to contribute to this knowledge collection. It's the same way we contribute to medical research in our country, by consent, and it has great value. We know that Norway has a population that really wants to contribute to that kind of knowledge. So someone is asking the question, what are we going to do with that knowledge? Well, this is the part of the stop app that we've already benefited from in an emergency context. This knowledge has been collected until now, and last week we had the first publication, which just shows that the increased movement in society – as we are aware that it has become – because we measure it in other ways – has also led to increased close contact between people, with less than two meters. This is useful knowledge in the evaluation of possible measures to be taken in the event of a spread of infection. The new knowledge that we will be able to generate through the solution that the Storting is now adopting will also provide us with increased preparedness in the meeting with an increase in the spread of infection again and will be able to give us absolutely decisive knowledge. This pandemic, the meeting with a new virus, has shown us that working in new ways to get knowledge faster through research has been an important part of the preparedness. It is a new experience from this situation and fortunately an experience that the Stortinget now seems not to say no to, and therefore I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is now supporting the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1208	We believe that the work on the launch of the Contagion Stop app and the situation we are currently facing is primarily poor political craftsmanship. What matters to us is that people give informed consent to the use of their data, and that they know the purpose for which the data is to be used. As the Minister of Health rightly points out, we have a population that is very willing to use its data when it is informed and useful. So here you have to take a step back and simply do the lesson – if it is a parliamentary expression. It is a matter of proportionality, because privacy must always be weighed against other considerations. Many of the hearing bodies held their noses when the app was launched and said that we accept this because we are in the middle of a global pandemic, and health and the ability to limit the spread of infection is the crucial, important argument. Today, we know more, and the fact that the authorities make a link between infection tracking and monitoring in order to drive knowledge development seems to be problematic, and that needs to be addressed. Although it does not appear in the Sveinung Stensland proposal that we are going to vote for, we assume that privacy considerations are respected. We really wanted to vote in favour of both proposals, but one of them has to have a majority, and that is why I have also explained our voting methods. There is a lot of work to do to create trust so that it becomes a functional and reliable tool. Many of us say yes to sharing our data. I myself am a member of the mother and children's study, and I have received many text messages during this pandemic asking about providing new data to drive knowledge development and equip us for the next pandemic, which we know will come. But this must be enlightened, it must be well discussed, and that did not happen when we were in the situation a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1219	The one who goes through life without making mistakes, has probably done too little. It's clear that everything hasn't been perfect in the situation we've been in now, but what we can say in retrospect is that it's been traded and things have been started. Among other things, the King was given extended powers to impose isolation and the quarantine, which the Stortinget now believes should be extended, was encroached on in another law. It's easy to criticise that this went very fast, I should have even seen that this proposition came a little before, but now it came when it came, and we've provided a necessary basis. Then there's a discussion about the Data Protection versus the Right, as Åshild Bruun-Gundersen draws up, but it's the Data Protection Authority that disagrees with the Public Health Institute initially. I think there's every reason to take the Data Protection Authority seriously, but I also think there's every reason to take the Public Health Institute seriously, and here there's actually some disagreement between the two. There's a process going on around it. I trust both floors, and I hope we get a good solution there. That is why it is great that the proposal that I have tabled should be supported by a majority. We had a very quick discussion in the committee, as several have been involved, there have been a lot of phone calls and e-mail exchanges in the last week. When the Central Party from the pulpit says they've thought the same thing all the way, it's a little special that I discover this solving the proposal this morning. 9th@item: inlistbox It might have been the theme of one of the many e-mail rounds we had this past week. Then we might have got a better process around this, and then I might have been able to answer all the details Kjersti Toppe asks me to come along, but I'm going to support the assessments made by the Council of State. I hope that we do not need to use any of these powers. I hope we can say in two years' time that there was no need for the stoppage app because the infection in society was so low. But I sincerely hope that we don't get into an infectious blooming situation, and then the Storting has said no to knowledge acquisition and no to an infection stop app, because that's exactly what prevention is, that's exactly what's ready: to be prepared for the unexpected and prepared for the worst that can happen. Everyone in Norway is now working to reduce the infection pressure, and if we succeed in doing so, there will be no need for either isolation or quarantine, or for a stoppage app. My prediction is that this epidemic is not over. We have to be on our feet, and we have to make sure that the authorities have the tool they need to continue the fight against covid-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1230	I did not have to come to the posts of the representative Bruun-Gundersen in my previous post. There were some errors, including: that the Data Protection Authority has concluded in this case and put its foot down. It is wrong, and the representative knows that well, because she was with me in the New Year 18 yesterday, where the Data Protection Authority itself stated that they have not completed this matter. It is true that the Data Protection Authority sends a warning of a decision to the actor to which it applies, so that they are given the opportunity to answer the questions raised by the Data Protection Supervisor and the assessments made by the Data Protection Supervisor on a provisional basis. That process is currently in progress. One of the main issues of data protection objection is precisely proportionality, whether it is proportionate to have such an app in the infection situation we have in Norway today. It is worth noting that neither the Data Protection Agency nor the ICT environment to which the representative Toppe referred are particularly prominent experts on infection. What is now the Public Health Institute's assessment of the likely scenario in the development of infection in Norway is that we will first have local blooms of the spread of infection. It is then the government's strategy that these local blossoms are to be cut down locally. In that context, the Contamination Stop app will be a tool. And it doesn't make sense if that tool is to stay in place until the infection has become a major national spread. It makes no sense, and it is an important appeal against the proportionality described by the Data Protection Authority in its letter. So that's where I hope that the infectious assessments from the Public Health Institute will also lead to other assessments from the Data Protection Authority. Nor is it like this, as one gets the impression through the posts of the representative Bruun-Gundersen, that the Norwegian state is now sitting and monitoring where the population is. This is not an infectious arrest application used to monitor the population, whether the population is following the country’s advice on infectious diseases. This is an app that the population voluntarily download, which people accept to be used, and which until now has had two functions: infection tracking and knowledge acquisition. With the work now in progress, and what the Greatness is now deciding, the population will give acceptance to each of those purposes. So it's quite right that the process of using the infection tracking part has taken longer than the original plans. There is one reason for this, and that is that we were able to control the spread of the infection more quickly, so that there were fewer infected people in the municipalities where the app was to be tested. Hopefully, Stortinget has to look at it as a good news. And now there's a new plan for how to validate the Contagion Stop app without the need for a high level of infection in society. It will now be implemented as soon as we have found a solution with the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1247	The representative Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1252	The National Data Protection Authority has sent notice to the Institute of Public Health in such a way that the Institute of Public Health chose to disable the app and delete the data, despite the fact that they did not want it, and that is to put the foot down. I actually took the floor to give an explanation to the vote, after the post from the Labour Party representative Kjerkol. When the Workers' Party now announces that they would like to support both the solutions, both that has been taken up by the Right-wing Representative Sveinung Stensland, and that from the Central Party's representative Kjersti Toppe, I believe that voting must be put up in such a way that those proposals are not opposed, that the Workers' Party can support both. In that case, both proposals shall have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1259	Me and SV are in favour of the proposal from the Central Party to respect data protection law. I have sent several questions to the Minister of Health in April and May. SV can vote in favour of the Right proposal subsidiaryly, as it is better than what has happened before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1264	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1269	The Council of State said that the Central Party will weaken its preparedness in Norway with the proposal. It seemed to me to bring threats, and it does little to help in this matter. It was the government that launched this as an infectious arrest app, not as a monitoring app, and it was the government that introduced an application that is now being considered among the worst in the world on privacy and that the Data Protection Authority is going out and says must be stopped. It's pretty serious, and it's done without anyone taking any self-criticism at all. It's actually provocative, I thought, because it's quite serious, what's happened to privacy. I also do not believe that Höie responds to how information should now be stored with the new proposal from the government party. Should it still be central storage, which has been criticised, or should it not? It shows that the proposal made by the majority is not clear enough, and I stick to the proposal we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1276	I feel the need to respond to some of the things that Toppe here mentions, namely that we do not show signs of self-criticism. I just stood here and criticized both how fast this had gone, that the app is not perfect, that we didn't have a good enough foundation, so we had to do something, and that it goes too fast. But the one who has really started democracy at a fast pace here is Kjersti Toppe, who thinks it is too good to make a proposal that turns this whole debate upside down. We could have had a good discussion here today about isolation and quarantine, the intervention measures. No one other than me has mentioned the Convention on Human Rights and all these things, the big questions about quarantine and isolation, which are very intrusive measures, and which we are now empowering the government to continue with. Then Top of the Center Party comes counting from the sideline at 9 a.m. Tuesday morning with a proposal that will be the whole debate, and then she'll have the whole idea of who can take self-criticism. Everyone agrees that the swings have gone fast. But we should be happy about that. Had we not had such a powerful government as we have, we might have had infectious numbers that were more like those on the other side of the fridge. It's just that we have a health minister and a prime minister and other government councils who have really shown a willingness to act, which means that we have such good control, along with an excellent health service and a people who have confidence in the decisions that have been made. I hope the Center Party can continue the good dialogue we've had around isolation and quarantine, and then we can take a new round about the Contagion Stop app when the Storting opens again. Everyone agrees that this needs to get better. I have full confidence in the assessments of the Data Protection Agency, but I also trust the Public Health Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1287	The President must state that there are no representatives coming in from the sidebar when there is a meeting of the National Assembly. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1307	At the request of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to the other political groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1314	I do not need a long article on this matter. This proposal for amendments to the Law of Association is a direct consequence of the previous decision of the Stortinge in the context of the Stortinge treatment of the local and regional reform. It's important to get the correct description of the selections of the merger choice in place. The Committee considers it important to have up-to-date legislation in place as soon as possible. That is why we have had a very rapid procedure, so that we can now join that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1321	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1338	At the request of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to the other political groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1345	This concerns the proposal for a temporary law amending the electoral law. The action taken in this proposal is to ensure, as far as possible, democratic rights also during a period of social constraints, measures limiting the activity of following the Code of Disease Protection. These include: that groups or lots which did not reach high enough in the previous elections, or those who wish to establish lots to participate in the next major elections, are allowed to collect the signatures necessary to provide the basis for the delivery of the list. Therefore, it is suggested that this can be done digitally and not by hand signature on a paper, as it has been until now. My mother had an expression that she used often. She said, "One gets to swing around and do it." I've been thinking about that this weekend. These things, both the previous and this, came to the committee Friday afternoon, and in order to get it off before the summer we had to “hush around and do it” on the weekend. So I want to thank the Committee for its constructive follow-up, but I would like to point out to the government that this was a challenging and uncomfortable short time – unpleasant because when we talk about digitisation and this way of doing things, it affects both privacy and digital security. It was a bit demanding for us in the committee without knowing more about what this means in that field, to decide on it, but it is a temporary law. By adopting this, we are assuming that the Ministry can continue to work towards a safe and good solution. The Committee has therefore also made a comment stressing the need to ensure that digital security and privacy are protected in a reliable manner. The Committee agrees on the measures in place as a temporary law. And then I have to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party and independent representative Ulf Leirstein could well imagine that these changes also became permanent and have a comment on it, but they have not made any proposals about it now. It is true that the election law will be dealt with in the Grand Duchy in the next period. The Electoral Committee has delivered its opinion, and there is likely to be a thorough debate on this. But now the Committee is gathering on the proposals under temporary law. We have pushed around and taken the job and could therefore deliver an adjustment in time for us to decide this before the summer. It is important to maintain democracy also for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1356	The weather was fine this weekend, and I understand that sitting in and working with this setting might not be what the committee had intended, although it was at least cool indoors. That being said, I am very grateful that the committee has just taken the job and floated around. There is no doubt that this matter should have come before. When it comes so late, it's because we want to secure the democratic rights that also parties and unregistered groups that did not reach in the previous elections have and are going to have in front of the election in 2021. This is a temporary solution that only applies to the decision to roll-out in 2021, and as the representative Harberg was in it, we will follow up the Committee on Election Law and assess whether electronic signatures should be proposed as a permanent arrangement. But precisely in the light of the short deadlines for getting the electronic solution in place by 1 October, we are not proposing a permanent arrangement now. Let me also stress that privacy is of course going to be absolutely essential for a well-functioning solution in place, and that digital security will naturally be part of that work and is not an area where compromises are to be made. However, we believe that the Election Directorate, which will be tasked with developing a digital solution for the collection of electronic signatures, will be able to handle this task in a good way, and that a solution can be in use by 1 October this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1367	I am very pleased that the Council of State was so clear that he will consider the possibilities for electronic signing as a permanent solution when the government is going to review the electoral law and possibly make a new proposal for changes to the electoral law in the next period. Because what is in today's party law and today's electoral law related to signing is relatively old-fashioned in that you have to walk around and collect signatures physically. We know today that when you, for example, taking up loans in the bank and being responsible for perhaps millions of loans, keeping it with a digital signature, and so should it be in the kind of areas that we are discussing in this case. The size is known for throwing itself around quickly, and we have proved that precisely in this matter, so much thanks to the case rapporteur and thanks to the Committee for a very good cooperation to get the matter moving. There are several issues we would like to discuss, but we simply did not have time for that now. It could be that, for all I know, it was also a majority for some of the comments I and the Progress Party have made on the matter, but we really didn't have time to discuss it in detail. It is a democratic problem to have such a short period of time, but it has been done. I am so pleased that we are putting this system in place, and the fact that we are now getting a new technical solution may make it easier for the government and the Council of State to conclude that this should be permanent if there is a good solution, because then you see that it can work. I took the word primarily to just mention the comment to which the case rapporteur also referred, and hope that this is something the Council of State will look at. I've realized that you'll do that for the future, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1378	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1395	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, up to six rows of answers will be available after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1402	That things go fast, like the headline of this day. First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for putting both self-determined abortion and spontaneous abortion on the agenda. Then I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee and express how happy I am that there is an overall committee that is now behind the vote – that is, the Right and Christian People's Party have notified it afterwards, after we have shared our views on the wording. It is simply very good to see how the focus and cooperation across different actors help to give women better follow-up after an abortion, both by self-determined abortion and by spontaneous abortion. Women have told their stories, the media have contributed wide coverage and the trade unions have valuable experience and expertise. And now we're here because the parties have found each other -- in some of the questions, at least. Because there is still political disagreement about some of the issues of abortion. This is particularly true for self-determined abortions and abortions. But then it's also nice that the committee can look past those differences and actually go together on several of the points. First to the setting, which I am submitting. With the first decision, we now ensure that women get real self-determination in terms of self-determined abortion, and it is the woman herself who will decide whether to commit abortion at home or in hospitals. For many women say that they have felt a expectation of doing the abortion at home medically, without necessarily being quite clear about it. The second decision is to improve the follow-up of women after spontaneous abortion. I have experienced that myself, and I can sign that you can feel a little alone and uncertain in such a situation. A spontaneous abortion can be painful, and it can be a psychological sensation, especially for those who experience it several times. Now these women are going to be followed up by health professionals. There are several occupational groups that can contribute; midwives, psychologists, permanent practitioners, health nurses and several others can play an important role here. There will be different needs for different women. Nor should we forget that spontaneous abortion and involuntary childlessness can be difficult for men who want to become fathers. The setting also contains four minority suggestions, two from the Working Party and SV and two from SV. This is a proposal on self-determination and mentions, and it is a proposal to reverse the amendment that was discussed last June, when women's right to self-determined foetal numbers reduction was removed. I bring this up with the two proposals the Workers' Party is part of. Then I will explain in more detail the proposals of the Workers' Party in a separate article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1419	Then the representative Tuva Moflag has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1424	Self-determined abortion is and must be strong in Norway. The woman herself knows her situation best, and it is therefore the woman who is best placed to make the assessment. The issue of abortion has been debated for decades, and it often creates a lot of commitment. That's not so strange, because it includes a lot of major ethical issues related to women's self-determination, new life and medical progress. This is precisely why these debates can be difficult, because they quickly become personal, and it can be very close. In Norway, women’s right to self-determination has been very long, and that is something I am very pleased about. Today’s government does not want to promote changes in today’s abortion law, either in order to remove the names, extend the ban on self-determined abortion or change the rules on foetal reduction. Removal of the denominators will in reality mean an automatic extension of the limit of self-determined abortion. The right believes that today's abortion law balances the consideration of the foetus and the woman in a good way and does not want any further extension of this limit. Then there are some suggestions here that government parties are in favour of, because when a woman decides that she wants abortion, it's important that she can choose the method she feels most secure. It shall also be possible to carry out a medical abortion at the hospital, if she so wishes. For some it may be safe to have competent health professionals around them. So even if it is not in the vote, then the government parties support proposal No. 2 there. A spontaneous abortion can be tough to go through – for the woman, but also for the couple. In particular, it may be difficult to experience this several times. We humans are different, and we react differently to it. Some people need more follow-up in retrospect than others. Spontana away is not uncommon, but for those who experience it can still be very heavy. There's still too few talking about it. You might know little about it before you experience it yourself, and it's easy to feel a little alone after such an experience. Then not everyone understands that they might need to talk to someone afterwards. For this reason, the parties to the Government also support proposal No. 1 in the suspension, i.e. all those undergoing spontaneous abortion should be offered follow-up by health professionals afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1440	Abortion is not an easy decision for the women and families in that situation. I think we politicians should be very careful about dealing too much with the abortion law, which has basically been good for 42 years. I am not particularly pleased that the abortion law was lifted as part of the so-called orientation elections of the Christian People's Party in 2018. The party of progress never took part in any promises to the Christian People's Party in that process. The party never agreed to abolish § 2c of the Abortion Act, which entitles women to late leave when the child has a serious illness. That's still allowed. The party never agreed to ban foetal reduction. That's still allowed. Now that foetal reduction is equivalent to latent, we in the Progress Party believe that there is a legal clearance, because it is not medically possible to implement it within the limits of today's self-determined abortion. If this is to be changed, it is necessary to extend the limits of self-determined abortion or to force the professional community to carry out the abortion earlier than is medically recommended. The Progress Party will not support any of these alternatives as they exist today. Self-determined abortion is currently valid for women up to week 12, and there should not be a target for anyone to commit abortion as late as possible. For the Progress Party, it has been important to ensure that women have access to all available information on their own pregnancy as early as possible. This is important to ensure that women can make informed choices and to ensure that desired abortions are carried out as early as possible. A few weeks ago, we dealt with the Biotechnology Act. By offering early ultrasound to all women and the risk-free blood sample NIPT to all women with a medical indication, we also ensure that women are informed about their own pregnancy early. We also decided to establish a PGD offer in Norway to provide better help to families with serious and heritable diseases. For people who have not gotten pregnant because of such fear, it represents an opportunity to create the family they wanted, perhaps for a long time. The Progress Party believes it is a medical responsibility to prevent pregnancy which is likely to end in an abortion or spontaneous abortion. This is done by giving women the opportunity to make use of PGD and access to all available information on their pregnancy early in pregnancy. I hope that means fewer abortions, and that in that case it will happen early rather than late in pregnancy. The follow-up of pregnant women carrying out a planned abortion or an unwanted spontaneous abortion should be improved. That is why we in the Progress Party support the proposals that are now coming from an overall committee. Any woman planning an abortion shall be offered the option of choosing whether it is to be carried out in a hospital or at home. And it's important to give both women and men better follow-up when they have an unwanted spontaneous abortion. It's a great grief to lose a child. A mother and a father who did not have the dream fulfilled deserve that we give them a worthy follow-up after such a great loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1453	The centre party is behind today's abortion permit, and we will not support the suggestions in the setting that are about to change it. When it comes to the proposal to extend the limit of self-determined abortion until the 16th week of pregnancy, we do not support it. And when it comes to the proposal to establish advisory teams throughout the country, with qualified health care to support and guide women, we don't support it either. To the last proposal, there is reason to ask what SV actually means. Do they want to get away from the criteria of today's abortion law, or are they going to be in debt, but with another follow-up, with an advisory team? I think that's a very incomprehensible suggestion. I could wish that one was at least more clear about what one actually suggests. It's true that there's been a big discussion about abortion. The central party is also very critical of the way abortion was raised when it came to the direction of the Christian People's Party. It's actually in the aftermath of what we're getting this debate in the Storting. I mean, these are things that don't belong to such policy choices. There's a lot of care to take, and there's no simple thing -- whether it's a mean thing or not. When it comes to foetal reduction, the Senter Party has had a clear line. It is now that foetal reduction is carried out after week 12, and then we think it's quite natural that this type of latex is treated in the same way as other latex aways, i.e. by removal treatment. There is something positive coming out of this proposal for a representative. We get multiples, consonant, in two of the proposals, which are actually very important. It is true that many women and families have experienced that there is not enough follow-up for those who experience abortions — perhaps many abortions — and now the Stortinge determines that they should be provided with help from health professionals if they need it. The proposal that women should be offered to be in a hospital when carrying out an abortion is also a very important proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1468	For the first time, the woman’s right to self-determination has been weakened – due to the fact that the right parties will send more women for treatment. We know that many women experience the meeting with the denominator as difficult. SV suggests removing the denominators. We propose to investigate and establish advisory teams across the country to help the woman get help from professionals. They shall support the woman and ensure real self-determination. One in five pregnancies ends in spontaneous abortion. A number of women tell about the grief and the physical and mental pain that can occur after spontaneous abortion. The midwife gang indicates that many women want more follow-up than they get. In Sweden, all women are offered a support call. In Norway, women do not have this right to follow-up, but today I am pleased that the entire committee has said that they will support the SV's proposal that everyone should have an offer and a good follow-up. A review carried out by the NRC in April 2019 shows that several women feel that it is not a real choice to have medical abortions carried out in hospitals, but that it is expected to be carried out at home. Medical abortions can be very painful. All these women should be safe and well cared for. The SV proposal is that women who are to commit an abortion should have it carried out in a hospital if the woman herself wishes to do so. I'm glad that we get a majority for this important proposal, and I'll praise all the parties that we can talk to each other, across political dividing lines, to get better health care for those who need it. I am promoting all the SV's proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1479	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has put forward the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1484	I am pleased that the government agrees that there should be no proposal for changes to the abortion law now, neither in order to remove the names, extend the limit of self-determined abortion, nor change the rules on foetal reduction. I heard the representative Wilkinson say that SV will replace the subjects with teams of professionals. The subjects consist of professionals, and to me it seems that it might be the word denominator that can be problematic. I expect all the parties to stand together around the goal of least possible abortions, and no one is either aware that the Christian People's Party wants to give the fetus a greater legal protection. If we look back to 2019, I'm glad that there were actually historically few abortions. The fact that the decline is greatest among women under the age of 25 shows that, for example: the effective functioning of free prevention as an abortion prevention measure. This is important that we also keep going. There are more spontaneous distances every year than most people may be aware of. Many people avoid saying that they have spontaneous abortions, and many also feel that the follow-up is not good enough or perhaps completely absent. I am pleased that it is now to be facilitated for follow-up by health professionals afterwards for those who want to do so. Every woman — every couple — who experiences spontaneous abortion is different and may need different follow-up. It is important that the follow-up is adapted to the one to be given it, and I am therefore also pleased that the decisions provide room for adaptation to the needs of the individual. For some, follow-up in midwifery will be correct; for others, it may be determined. However, the possibility of adapting follow-up in too many vulnerable and difficult times is important. Clearly, even those who opt for abortion must be better followed up. In this way, I am also pleased that we have a unanimous decision on the proposal that women who want to do so should be able to have abortions carried out in hospitals. We know that a lot of people are in a very vulnerable situation both before and after an abortion. Here we have to facilitate a better follow-up. On that occasion, I want to talk a little hot about the amazing work Amathea does in meeting both the women and the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1495	The number of abortions is increasing in Norway. The trend of declining abortion rates started in 2008 and has continued during this government period. That's good. The government continues its efforts to reduce the number of abortions and the aim is to reduce the number of abortions by one third during the period 20142024. In order to achieve this, I will shortly present an action plan to continue to reduce the number of abortions. However, the government will not propose amendments to the abortion law either with a view to eliminating abortions, extending the limit on self-determined abortion or amending the rules on foetal reduction. The rules of the abortion law shall take into account both the woman and the foetus. At the beginning of pregnancy, the consideration of the woman is crucial. In the first 12 weeks, the woman decides, even if she wants to interrupt her pregnancy. However, in line with the length of pregnancy and the development of the foetus, the legal protection of the foetus is enhanced. After the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the law shall also take care of the foetus. This is done by determining the issue of abortion by a denominator. I believe that today's abortion law balances the care of the woman and the foetus in a good way. The limit of self-determined abortion has been a good rule that has been established for a long time. A spontaneous abortion can be a heavy emotional strain, especially for those undergoing multiple spontaneous abortions. However, the extent to which women who have had spontaneous abortions need follow-up from health care will vary. I therefore believe that it is natural for the woman herself to contact the landlady or midwife. Together with the woman, they can clarify what is in the individual case the most appropriate follow-up after spontaneous abortion. Most self-determined abortions are carried out drugically, most of which are carried out at home. The woman gets information and painkillers. She will also receive information on how she can contact the hospital if she needs it. But the woman can choose to perform the last part of the medical abortion at the hospital. Information on this possibility shall be provided in hospitals and also available on healthnorge.no and on the hospital’s website.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1514	The entire Committee will vote in favour of two important proposals from the SV. One is that women planning an abortion are offered to perform this in a hospital if the woman wants it. The second is that those who have had spontaneous abortion are offered follow-up by health professionals. When will it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1521	The first is already valid, and that is the information given to women today, both in hospitals, in health Norway.no and in the information material to be available in this area. What we need to look at in terms of the other is what's the best way to give the woman the right information about how to get health care if someone after a spontaneous abortion needs it. It is a work that we must look at when the Storting has adopted this – how this can be improved. It appears that there is not enough information and follow-up as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1528	In Sweden, it is very common that there are psychologists or midwives. What does the government think about using midwives and psychologists?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1533	I mentioned in my post especially the midwife in such a role. In some cases, there may also be a need for psychological competence, but it needs to be assessed individually. It is important that there is an individual assessment of the individual needs of each woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1538	I heard the Council of State stress in its statement that the government doesn't want to change the abortion law, but that's exactly what we did a year ago, about this time. We changed the abortion law and weakened women's self-determination in terms of the ability to take foetal reduction. The number we've heard from the trade union community suggests that there are about as many foetal reductions now as they were a year ago. I wonder what the Minister of Health thinks about the process that the women now have to face, that they could actually make that decision themselves a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1545	I think that now foetal reduction has come up with what is in force, and was also applicable before that, in the case of the abortion law with regard to abortions carried out after week 12. There it is. But I very much agree with those posts that have also been here at Stortinget. It is important to note that consideration is about a meeting of skilled professionals who are concerned with caring for the woman's views, but also providing good advice and guidance in the process of making such a difficult decision, and that in the debate on things we disagree about, we do not help to create a picture of the subjects that I think are wrong. I am quite clear that there may well be political disagreement as to the time at which the denominators are going to enter, or in what matters, but I hope that we can have a debate on what does not create a picture of the denominators that do not match what I perceive is the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1552	I agree. It's professionals who sit in these denominators. At the same time, we also have to take into account the stories that women have told us, that it may be difficult to meet in a name – not because there is something wrong with those who sit there, but simply because it is a burden just to go through that process, from their own point of view. But I just want to go back to that with the amendment of the abortion law. You can disagree or agree, as the minister himself says, but it is a fact that the abortion law was changed last year, and I just want to check with the minister whether he can confirm that there will be no changes to the abortion law next year, any restrictions for women, initiated by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1559	I can confirm that. As I also said in my post: The government has no plans to make any further changes to the abortion law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1564	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1571	Together with the Progress Party and the Center Party, today's government has been behind a historical restriction on women's self-determination. What they did met with great protests, and that was right. For us, self-determined abortion is about women themselves making important decisions. It is lawful to have abortions on two or three foetuses within the time limit for self-determination, even if they are healthy, and then it is difficult to justify why there should be no law against foetal reduction. There's no fundamental difference between having an abortion on a healthy fetus that's alone, and one that's with one or more others. If we weaken and go away from self-determination, we quickly get a society that shifts power over women's bodies away from women themselves and over to someone else, who makes power decide what are worthy or unworthy reasons. Lack of self-determination dissuads women and testifies to a mistrust, a signal that women are unable or responsible enough to decide for themselves. Why should the denominator be better able to make that choice than the pregnant person himself? It is the pregnant person who knows his/her situation best and who is best placed to assess whether or not pregnancy should be discontinued or whether the number of foetuses should be reduced. Of course, the pregnant woman must receive good medical follow-up and information, but the choice must ultimately be hers. 96 pst. all abortions in Norway are carried out before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. It's also true in Sweden, but there's the limit of self-determination week 18. Red is in favour of extending self-determination to week 18 in Norway and is for all improvements, including the proposal for self-determination to week 16. So it's not illegal to have an abortion this week 16 today, but then the question is, who is going to decide, is it the woman or is it a subject? In our view, the pregnant person should make the decision himself. We will also support proposals involving advice with qualified health professionals, as well as any proposals to ensure that women have access to abortion in the way they feel most familiar with themselves. It is good that now there is a majority for the provision of follow-up from health professionals by all those who are subject to spontaneous abortion. One in five pregnancies ends in spontaneous abortion, which can mean grief and pain, and it is overtime that the measures now come into place. We're happy about that. We know that the right to decide for yourself is one of the most important historical victories for the women's movement. It's a right that needs to be strengthened, not weakened, and Red will continue to fight for, even on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1587	I'm going to use my last post to explain the proposals from the Workers' Party, which has support from SV, and now also Red, it sounded like. Today's abortion law is one of the main women's political victories of the Workers' Party. The law guarantees women self-determination and, as several representatives have been involved here, has contributed to a low level of conflict around abortion compared to other countries. And it's positive that abortion rates in Norway are going down. Unfortunately, women's reproductive health was used as a piece in the political power game that took place in the autumn of 2018, and it is a kind of political debate that we believe Norwegian women do not deserve to be exposed to. That is why we are proposing today that the change adopted by the Grand Duchy a year ago, with the restriction of women's self-determination in terms of foetal numbers reduction, should be reversed. In addition, we have a proposal that relates to the denominators. We don't have the starting point that we want to change the abortion law now, but we want to assess improvements within today's law to strengthen the woman's situation at the late edges, and both review and possibly change today's denominator system. That is the background to the second proposal that we are promoting. Pregnant women diagnosed with severe malformations in the foetus at ultrasonic levels in week 18 are surprisingly and undesirable in an abortion-seeking situation. Therefore, the amendments to the Biotechnology Act that we adopted just a few weeks ago, and the introduction of early ultrasound, are also a good public offer to all women, who are long-lasting and will improve this situation for women. There is little research and few studies on the experience of women in the treatment itself. But Eva Sommerseth, first amanuensis of the Institute of Nursing and Health at the University of South East Norway, has researched this in her doctoral thesis, and the information provided by her informants paints a picture of women in acute crisis conditions, and that an examination may lead to their experiencing this situation as more difficult than it would have had to be initially. As the Minister of Health himself is concerned, it does not have to have anything to do with the professionals who are sitting in the name. For these women, the situation in itself can create this turmoil and this sense of crisis. That's why we want a review of today's denominator, and see if it can be replaced by something else that at the same time preserves the woman's self-determination.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1602	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1619	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies are given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1626	As the President has explained, we are now discussing a proposal from the Central Party which proposes a number of proposals to strengthen the contributions of the non-profits to the specialist health service. I expect the proposers to present these proposals. I also refer to the Minister of Health's reply to the Committee on this matter, in which he, among other things, spoke. points to the Granavolden platform, where it states that the government will strengthen the role of non-profit-making as a provider of health and care services. As part of this strengthening, the government of the State budget for 2020 has set itself the goal of doubling the ideal share of the overall health and care sector to 10 pst. measured in terms of costs. The Minister for Health believes that the proposals promoted in this Chamber are well taken care of. Ideal actors are an important part of Norwegian healthcare and contribute in several areas. The Christian People's Party welcomes the important effort made by the government on ideal actors and the ambitious objectives set for the contribution of non-profit actors to a diverse health sector. There's a lot going on in this field right now. In 2019, regional health enterprises were asked to include non-profit actors in their planning and development work. Ideal actors operate about half of the offers in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. A diversity of actors contributes to innovation and development, and it is important to maintain it. I am therefore pleased with the broad majority who see the value of and the need for ideal actors. The fact that more than the government parties value the contribution of non-profit actors to health care is important for development. When we discussed the national health and hospital plan earlier this year, it was decided unanimously that the ideal actors should be part of the health community as well. This spring the government has opened up to reserve competition for non-profit actors in healthcare. This is a development that I enjoy. It may be difficult to know what is a non-profit enterprise, or how to define it. Even during the coronary crisis, we have seen that, unfortunately, ideal actors between them fall between two chairs. I know that Worke has proposed a register of non-profit enterprises. I see the potential and value of such a register. The government has done a lot of good work to strengthen the place of non-profit actors in the diversity of actors in the Norwegian health system. I look forward to continuing the good work, and want all the good forces that are engaged in good conditions for non-profit enterprises, to this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1643	This proposal for a representative is in the process of raising the importance of the work done by non-profit actors in our specialist health service. Over many decades, the ideals have contributed to the health care we have today. I think we have to admit that in a good deal of cases they trigger a volunteer beyond what the public is able to mobilize. They have also shown their way in several fields. Good examples of this are found in rehabilitation and, above all, in care. The care we have in Norway today would not have been where it is today, if it had not been for the ideal actors. We're still not in that field, but part of the answer to how we're going to get closer to that goal is, of course, about getting the ideals on the move as well – rather the ideals that have driven this long, like the Blue Cross, which has built up important knowledge and research in the field of which we benefit as a society. The Labour Party is today behind the proposal, which will help to ensure that the non-profit sector in the health field is able to look forward to the future, with a clear objective of increasing the use of non-profit actors, preferably as a substitute for commercial actors. The non-profit sector is also facing some challenges in this area. This applies, for example: The corona crisis, in which we have received feedback that the government's arrangements have not done well enough. This concerns the question of privatisation through the system of free choice of treatment. There I am concerned that you either get a skewer of ideals, or that they have to dump the prices so much that it goes at the expense of quality and/or sustainable long-term operation. As also commented in the setting, Works states that free treatment options lead to private ideal providers losing the fight against private commercial providers. We also see examples of ideal actors being purchased by commercial operators after they have won tenders. There's a development The Working Party is very skeptical. When the Committee examined the matter, we stressed from the Labour Party the ideal long-term needs. Should ideals be able to invest, build up knowledge and get good professionals, they also need long-termity. This is a positive representative proposal that makes the ideal actors visible as an important part of our health care system. I think their role is not going to be less important in the future. That's why I'm glad that there's a fairly broad, cross-political consensus here today that we're going to keep raising them and the contribution they're making to a health care system in the top of the world. With that, I address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1662	The representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1667	To the right, it is a principle that we should have strong public funding for the health care of the population, but that the offers can be delivered by private and non-profit individuals. Strengthening the diversity of providers — including in specialist health services — is an independent point. This is something common to the bourgeois parties, and therefore also a strengthening of the role of non-profit institutions in the Granavolden platform. The government set itself there a target of doubling the ideal share of the overall health and care sector to 10 pst. This is an ambitious objective, and many measures have already been taken to ensure this. It has been mandated to strengthen the use of the ideal specialist health services by reserving competitions and including them in planning and development work. And now regional health businesses are also going to report on developments in the use of the ideals, and the Council of State has informed that it will inform about these developments in the annual budgetary processes — and if necessary, more action will be taken. In other words, much is done to strengthen the ideals of the specialist health service, and the proposals that are on the table here are already well taken care of in the government's plans and work. On the other hand, the proposal to remove the free choice of treatment would not help to strengthen the ideal position — rather, on the contrary. The aim of free treatment choices is to reduce waiting times, increase freedom of choice and ensure that the capacity already available out there is used as efficiently as possible and becomes available to all — including those who cannot pay for it themselves. It is in itself a value that we should extend the system of free choice rather than liquidate it. Furthermore, today the ideals represent a significant share of the services provided by this scheme and the removal of free treatment choices, as the proposals put forward here, will in reality weaken the activities of ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1686	For the Progress Party, it is important to use all capacity in Health-Norway, both private and public institutions. It is important that patients themselves be able to choose which institution they will be treated with, and public funding must follow. It must accompany the patient either being treated in a public hospital or in a private hospital. This will reduce health cows, as well as increase the choice and ability of patients to decide for themselves what is best for themselves and their treatment. In my view, it makes no sense to distinguish whether the private operator is commercial or non-profit-making. The only thing that matters is that our citizens get the health care they need. It is a fact that free treatment options will allow patients to receive treatment with the shortest waiting time. There is no concealment that the available capacity of the country’s treatment sites will vary from place to place. Therefore, it is important for the Progress Party that public and private health services be treated in the same way both legally and economically. This will be particularly important if they are to be able to compete on a level playing field. The Progress Party believes that the safety and freedom of choice of patients must be at the centre. It is therefore important that patients who have been granted a specific healthcare by the public should have the right and the option to choose which service provider they wish to use. It is a paradox that the same parties on the left who are engaged in strengthening private ideal actors are also the same parties who want to liquidate free treatment choices. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre now propose not to purchase more services from private operators, but in another proposal they suggest that the public should buy at least 10 pst. of the services of their non-profit actors. It's a contradiction that can't be explained. Free treatment options were introduced for the benefit of patients. For patients, free treatment options will reduce waiting time, increase freedom of choice and stimulate public hospitals to become more effective. More than 300,000 patient agreements have been postponed as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. The Progress Party considers it pointless to postpone patient agreements while at the same time providing free capacity for private actors. That is why, in the revised national budget, we have received NOK 600 million for more purchases of services from private suppliers to bring down health cows. We will always fight for the patients' right to choose the treatment site itself. For us, it means a lot more that patients get good health care than the supplier's name.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1699	The ideal sector is a very important part of Norwegian welfare services. Ideal actors are now vulnerable to a policy of increasing the use of competition and supply in health services, as well as the rules of the EEA Agreement and the lack of space for action. There is a need for a defence against strong commercial interests that want access to what they see as new markets in Norwegian welfare, which go beyond the non-profit sector. A strong political priority is needed if the non-profit sector is to continue to play an important role in Norwegian welfare services, and that is the background to the proposal, with eight original proposals to strengthen this area. Undoing the reform of free treatment options is a first step. In the field of drugs, ideal actors have played a historically important role and have developed a strong professional environment, but here is the problem of internal funding for hospitals, which today provides an incentive to do everything by itself and not benefit from ideal services. We propose today to change this kind of funding. Several places have taken care of tasks from non-profit actors, as is the case with the Bergensklinikken. The Central Party believes that health professionals must notify the Department of developments which may threaten the independence of ideal contractors. Cross-disciplinary specialised drug treatment is an important part of the service and the operation of several of the major ideal actors. Therefore, these are strategically important for the development of the whole non-profit sector. Ideal actors have also done a great deal of work to build up the multi-disciplinary specialised provision of rehabilitation. This is ideal for most of the sector, but there is also a trend that the non-profit sector is bought up by larger commercial enterprises that are often owned by purchasing funds. In Health Mid-Norway has 20 pst. of the daily spaces before specialised rehabilitation shifted from non-profit to a commercial supplier because the commercial supplier purchased the non-profit service provider in the process. At the same time, major tasks in the rehabilitation field are transferred to the municipalities. The centre party believes that regional health professionals must make a requirement that they cannot change their mode of operation from non-profit-making to commercial. All healthcare professionals are now required to create strategies for non-profit growth. The problem is that the latest strategies to date have not been clear enough. Now the government has announced a target of doubling its ideal part of the overall health and care sector to 10 pst. measured in terms of costs. We're positive with that. But we believe that this must be reflected in the strategic plans of regional health care providers. That's why we suggest it. We also suggest that ideal hospitals should be given greater scope. Then we ask for a plan with both short-term and long-term measures to increase the use of ideal actors. So I'm going to take up the proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1712	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1717	SV wants every single crown sent to well-being to go to well-being, not to profit. Public funds shall go to users, not to private profit for corporate owners and investment funds in tax havens. In many debates, right-wing people will erase the difference between commercial private and non-profit individuals to only ‘private’. In this debate, the right parties are showing their own faces. Ideally, our welfare crowns are used by those who need it the most. Commercial companies use the money to go to children and the elderly for profit. Some actors have tried to use the system for their own profit. They have been awarded the contract as ideal, but have changed to a commercial operator after the contract has been signed. We suggest that the operator cannot change the operating form from non-profit to commercial en route during the contract period. The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have said that they will not vote in favour of this proposal. It seems strange. Our welfare isn't for making money, it's for serving people. When the public pays private operators to provide a service, the public must also be free to decide how this money is used. Ideal private actors often lose their way in competition with commercial operators. Setting a reasonable framework for commercial companies will therefore also contribute to a greater diversity of ideal actors. Therefore, we propose that the government establish a plan to increase the use of non-profit actors, as a substitute for commercial actors, across the whole range of healthcare services. The day is here. Will the right parties vote for ideals, or will they vote for more profit for individuals, paid for by money that would go to children and the elderly? SV agrees that the money should always go to well-being, not profit. The SV will vote in favour of all the proposals we are in favour of, but we will also vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1733	On the left, we are concerned with a healthy and sensible sharing of work tasks between public and non-profit actors. From 2013, with a new civil government, we therefore started work to prevent the closure of small ideal providers through the requirements of the cooperation agreement. We have played a central role in finding a solution to the historical pension obligations that prevented a level playing field between non-profit and private operators in the bidding process. There is no doubt that a number of non-profit actors were closest to having broken back in 2013, as they received a very important rescue package through the purchase of several treatment sites. Today, diversity flourishes. We in the Left believe that both public, private and non-profit actors are important in the health and care sector. Only in this way can we meet the major challenges that await us in the future. We have promised and provided better conditions for NPISHs, and in their freedom we get innovation and good solutions. For the Left, it has been particularly important to raise the range of multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment services. Here we find our most vulnerable patients. Within this field, they are making an absolutely unique and valuable effort. The same applies to the rehabilitation field. Ideal health professionals were well cared for on the Granavolden platform, with a separate point that the ideal position in the business model should be strengthened and that there should be equal conditions for public and non-profit offerings. It is actively working to ensure that the public does not build and develop competing offers for existing offers from private and non-profit actors. There are team games between public and non-profit actors that can relieve and reduce public health cows. At least 10 pst is required. of the healthcare sector shall be organised as non-profit-making activities, i.e.: a double from the past. Let me remind you that under the red-green government there was a tendering and contract regime that fed off the private and non-profit actors with housekeeper contracts that were of a very demanding nature to survive. Short-term agreements made it impossible to build a long-term and valuable professional competence. The left fought against the negative development and increasing health cows at the time. We've fought for longer-term agreements, and it's cleared in the historical pension obligations that inhibited equal competition. Now we believe that we have a health and care sector on a healthier course, and we emphasise the need for a healthy division of work between the public and non-profit health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1746	Non-profit institutions serving households have a central role in the provision of health and care services as providers of both specialist health services and community health and care services. In total, the ideal share is about 5 pst. The government will continue to strengthen the role of non-profit institutions in the service. That's why we've set ourselves the goal of doubling the ideal share of the overall healthcare service to 10 pst. At the same time, I would like to mention that in this area, too, we have to rely on weaker achievement than foreseen because of the corona situation. Several interventions have been taken to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the specialist health service. I have asked health regions to follow up the goal of non-profit growth and to further develop their strategies with this in mind. I have also asked them to consider setting quality requirements that take better account of the specificities of the ideal suppliers, including: equal opportunities and the use of volunteers. In 2019, health regions were commissioned to include the ideals in their planning and development work. They shall not build offers which compete with existing offers from idealle. The twelve non-profit hospitals with a long-term operating contract form an important part of the overall service provision. They will also be part of the 19 health communities to be established. The free choice system allows the patient to choose treatment from authorised private suppliers. A significant share of the suppliers of the scheme is ideal. When a service is included in the free choice of treatment, it opens up in order to allow even more non-profit actors to be accepted. The government will also strengthen the ideal role of municipal health and care services. We would like, among other things: look at free user choice. Centrally here is the Swedish model, where all suppliers who meet the specified criteria can provide services on behalf of the municipality. The government has requested to assess the economic impact by covering the historical pension costs of NPISHs for the municipal and county sectors, and we will come back to the case when we have an overview of the economic impact. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has recently considered proposals to reserve acquisitions for ideals. The Digitalisation Directorate has developed a new guide on the acquisition of health and social services to demonstrate how competitions can be organised with a view to increasing the number of ideals to participate. The government will facilitate more diversity in healthcare and has an ambitious policy to strengthen the ideal features of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1766	Voluntary NPISHs have done a great and important job in our healthcare system for many decades. In some areas they have also been guides and have established services that have been lacking under public authority. Good examples of this are found in both care and rehabilitation. But we also see examples in our time. In the last decade, the Children's Palliation Association has done an impressive job of raising the follow-up of dying children and their relatives. In the draft revised State budget, there is now a means of starting work on establishing a children’s hospice in the South. At the same time, some specialist health professionals have been critical of this. How will the Minister of Health contribute to the future development of good cooperation between the specialist healthcare service and – in this case – the Children’s Palliative Association with the follow-up of dying children and their relatives? And what does the Council of State do to make this offer a complement to the public, rather than to have an unfortunate situation where some professionals perceive them as a competitor?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1775	We have done so, among other things. in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have made a number of recommendations to the Council and the European Parliament. There we are just saying that there is also an offer of hospice, to be part of the diversity and choice in this area, and that there is no competitive relationship up to what should also be good offers in the public sector. I am very pleased that in the revised national budget, a solution has been found in the negotiations with the Progress Party which now ensures the establishment of this offer for children, while also providing guidance for the establishment of good palliative teams, children's partners, in the various health regions. This gives us the diversity, the whole and the offer that I think is right, which is in line with the big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1780	I thank you for the answer, but precisely that it has been perceived as a competitive situation between the ideal and the public specialist health service, I think is one of the challenges here. In any case, several of the professionals who have contacted me and expressed their scepticism about the association’s project have just pointed out that the government has not really managed to comply with the recommendations of the National Professional Guidelines for Palliation for Children and Young People, regardless of diagnosis, which came in 2016. It is recommended that each health region establish a multidisciplinary children’s palliative team located at the regional children’s and youth department or clinic. In the cases where such children’s palliative teams have been set up, the resources of the team have been quite scarce. Can the Council of State guarantee that the efforts now being made by the Children's Palliation Association will not go beyond the further development of children's palliative teams in health businesses? And when can we expect these teams to be fully developed and up and go across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1785	On the contrary: in the negotiations with the Progress Party, this balance is very well maintained. That is why the Progress Party has achieved 600 million. more to health regions, and comments have also been made on following up the establishment of children’s palliative teams also in the RHFs. So in the negotiations that have been between the government parties and the Progress Party, both diversity, freedom of choice and the establishment of a good hospice offer have been preserved, while there should also be an alternative for those who want to use the offer that is under the control of the health region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1790	I thank you again for the answer. These are positive signals, but without the state council being very specific about the timelines here, and it is good that there is enough money for both the ideal actors and the specialist health service. But the $600 million pointed out by the Swedish Council for Health Höie means that there are enough funds available for us to expect in 2021 that we will receive feedback that now all the children's palliative teams in the health regions are up and running and fully developed, so that this group of relatives and not least the children concerned will receive a good offer both through the Children's Palliament Association and through the completion of the specialist health service in the field?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1795	Yes, through the negotiations that have taken place in Stortinget between the government and the Progress Party, everything is now at the ready to speed up the follow-up to the big message that the government has presented in this area, including what the representative addresses. It's not just the 600 million. kr that was passed through the Progress Party, which was in the RNB, but also the 6 billion. kr which was there initially from the government. So I think there's going to be resources now that health regions can now follow up on the mission they're prepared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1800	My own local hospital is an ideal hospital. When we meet them in political meetings, we hear that it's a problem that they know their own budget long into the year. One of our suggestions here today is that the government has to secure non-profit hospitals long-term contracts, so they know much earlier what they have to stick to the next year. We don't get multiple numbers for this proposal today, so I would like to ask the Council of State: does he not see the need for the ideal hospitals – which are not just a supplement but an integral part of the public hospital supply – to have long-term contracts, so that they get as good care for their services as other public hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1807	It's already met. These hospitals are not open to tender and in reality have eternal contracts as part of the care-care-responsibilities of hospitals. The 12 hospitals that had agreements with the county municipalities originally, and now have agreements with the health regions as part of the implementation of care-care responsibilities, are in a very special situation and integrated as part of public health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1813	Then I think maybe the Council of State has to meet with these, because long-term agreements of course they have, but the cooperation is based on annual letters of assignment written after the health care agency has drawn up its own budget. In other words, they get to know this ideally after health professionals have prepared their budget. That's what we got feedback about, and that's what was the question. But I have another question about ideals. Is it okay that a middle of a contract changes from non-profit to commercial activity, when it is the ideals that have been offered? We have recently had an example of this in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1820	The question that the representative now raised is different from the one that the representative raised in respect of long-term agreements, namely the way in which a follow-up to the agreement is carried out. I agree with the representative that there are improvements that are possible. It is also part of the leadership we have now given to the health regions following the Granavolden platform that the ideal actors should be involved to a much greater extent and be equivalent participants, among others. in part of the planning work. Then health businesses receive their mission documents from the Ministry of Health at the beginning of January. This is one of the challenges of our system, that the Storting adopts the budget quite late in December, and the mission papers will come in January. But what is important here is to try to make it as much as possible that the non-profit partners are more equal to the other healthcare companies in being involved in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1827	We suggest that the private health operator cannot change the operating form from non-profit to commercial en route during the contract period. Why are governments and government parties opposed to this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1832	There are very many parts of this proposal that are problematic, because it will be very intrusive in the ability of the ideal actors to handle the business they have. One could then risk a business being shut down because there are no other players who will be able to take over, among other things. I also think this is difficult, but the most important thing is that it is an offer for patients. Unfortunately, we have also been in a situation in which a public health company had to take over a non-profit enterprise and let it become an integral part of a health company, because one simply had no other option in that situation. The alternative was that the offer had been dropped, and the patients had come out suffering damage. It is part of the assessments that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1839	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1846	Today, the Centre Party will stress the importance of the ideal actors in the health sector. Health is more than a market. We have actors in many areas who do an important and good job. Today’s tender regiment can provide good and serious actors, such as drug users and drug users. Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre – a more uncertain everyday life than necessary. As a non-profit, the health sports centre burns for the offers they can give people in rehabilitation. At the same time, they must compete with pop-up actors who do not have the same long-term thinking as the ideal actors and as the health sports centre has. They're very serious, they're of high quality, and they're putting the human being in the center. But the strong market focus in this sector makes it difficult. Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre has, for example: offer of therapy riding. They have had it since 1982, when they were started using people who contributed and collected money, so that this ideal actor could get it right. Therapy cannot be built up and built up in accordance with a yojo principle, which has now become more and more part of the sector. The Health Minister says that the government has an ambitious policy on behalf of the non-profit sector that is continually being followed up. But when I see the answer I got from the finance minister to a question I asked in connection with the fact that ideal actors, such as Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre, do not get crisis help in connection with the Korona crisis, I doubt how ambitious this policy really is. The health sports centre came into a completely critical economic situation because of the coronary crisis, but the finance minister just says that there is no help to get here. In addition, he suspects and expounds that they are exempt from tax. They say it's an advantage, and an advantage that commercial actors don't have. I think that's going to be very wrong, because our society will be poorer without the ideal actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1855	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1872	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1879	In this document, SV representatives propose to remove input-driven funding, ISF, in the specialist services under the coronary pandemic, so that all funds under the ISF in the State budget are provided as framework funding. Today, intervention-driven funding is 50 pst. Outpatient activity before drug use and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment was included in the scheme in 2017. A joint committee wrote that ISF should stimulate increased activity and cost-effective patient care. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV also indicate that there is a risk of a distortion of priorities, and show, among other things, that there is a risk of a distortion of priorities. that the priority selection, the Norheim selection, just pointed out the priority challenges of a high level of input-driven funding and recommended an evaluation thereof, which had not been done. Intervention-driven funding is initially a mechanism for providing funding between the Ministry of Health and Health and regional health providers. In practice, however, ISF is usually passed down to health care, hospital level and down to departmental level. However, there is nothing in the legislation to prevent regional healthcare providers from choosing to finance their underlying healthcare providers and to allow healthcare providers to finance hospitals and departments in the framework again. But this isn't happening in the health service today. We have 50 pst. input-driven financing. During the coronary apathy, hospitals have the measure of prioritising resources to increase preparedness and emergency treatment for patients with coronary virus disease. Thus, health services have significantly reduced the planned treatment. It has resulted in reduced activity-based revenues. At the same time, hospitals have incurred additional costs related to training, increased preparedness, etc. Many infirmities have been left empty, and many have been exposed to treatment. We don't know if the funds that are allowed in the revised national budget are enough, but in any case, a postponement of planned treatments will result in lower activity-based income for hospitals. The centre party is critical to a high degree of the ISF and believes that hospitals should be financed mainly. But the fact that hospitals lose money under a pandemic is an argument that the ISF system has to rise in times of crisis. From that point of view, the Central Party will support the SV’s proposal to halt the 2020 effort-driven financing scheme, so that all funds under the ISF in the State budget are provided as framework funding. With that, I take up the proposal from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1896	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1901	In the Workers' Party, we believe that we need to have an income system for hospitals that provides the best patient treatment. As the rapporteur pointed out, the Norheim Committee, which examined the priority criteria, also stated that the ISF system, as we call it, could have unintended consequences in this way. They recommended an evaluation, and we record that the government has not followed this recommendation. So the corona pandemic came and put this system out of play. Today we know that 35,000 beds are empty, and that 320,000 patients lost their right to treatment. Hospitals have converted to record speed in order to receive corona patients — fortunately not in a very high number. We're all supposed to be happy about that. But the planned treatment and other patients were unfortunately put on hold. That's the way it had to go. However, the working party notes that it is likely that a long time will elapse before the specialist health service can return to a normal situation, as it was before the outbreak of the virus, and that this necessarily has financial consequences for health establishments, is certain. That is why we stress the importance of providing hospitals, no matter what funding model we have, with a sufficient economy to maintain preparedness and treatment capacity while the pandemic is going on, both for patients with coronary syndrome and for those in need of our health care. We know that input-driven funding can have unintended consequences. The Labour Party was opposed to the introduction of input-driven funding in mental health protection, as the right-wing government has put in place, and we have previously both proposed and voted to fund the food supply as input-driven funding does not promote good practice and the good birth rate. But we also know that research in this field tells us that it may be wise to have different funding systems. We have examples that provide good quality and proper use of resources for patients. An example is the area of orthopaedics and hip fractures at St. Olav's hospital. The funding system has established ‘fixed track’ for hip fractures and a good orthogeriatric treatment provision for the elderly with hip fractures. The share of input-driven financing and framework funding was in a percentage of 60/40 under the red-green. The right-wing government has increased the effort-driven financing, and we have voted against it. The proposal from the Centre Party and the SV to disengage all input-driven funding we do not support today, because we are afraid that it may be at the expense of the hospital’s ability to perform good patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1916	The financial instruments must contribute to the efficient use of resources within the financial framework adopted on the Storting. It does today’s combination of framework funding and activity-based financing. Intervention funding stimulates more cost-effective patient treatment by providing hospitals with part of their payment based on actual activity. At the same time, it is important to stress that the IFS Facility is not a prioritisation system. Priorities in healthcare shall be based on the rules and guidelines specified by law, regulation or administrative action. We all agree that the corona virus outbreak has had a significant impact on the operation and economy of the specialist health service. We took this into account in the revised budget. At the Enterprise Meeting on 17 April 2020, the Minister for Health instructed regional health businesses to return to normal operation. In addition, the Minister of Health has already reintroduced important patient rights, such as the deadline for an evaluation in the specialist healthcare service within 10 days, the right to a reassessment of the specialist healthcare service, the right to an individual level, the right to a contact doctor and the right to a free choice of treatment. This, in addition to large additional appropriations for health businesses, shows that a number of measures for normalisation have already been launched by the government. In addition, the Minister of Health responds that the government will closely monitor the economic impact on health regions and come back to the Storting with both up-to-date information, assessment of the need for funding as a result of reduced activity-based revenues and budgetary management proposals. This is a much better approach than to liquidate a functioning financing mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1929	The share of input-driven funding increased from 40 pst. to 50 pst. when the party of progress was in government. We want to raise it to 60 pst. This funding mechanism is not a prioritisation system but stimulates cost-effective patient treatment. It is quite natural to fund hospitals based on how many patients they treat. The centre and SV want 100 pst. the framework financing of hospitals. It will weaken the incentives of hospitals to actually treat patients. Ironically, the hospitals that thrive best are those that treat fewer patients. We in the Progress Party are strongly opposed to such a funding system. The closure of society as a result of the corona virus has led to long-term health cows. Checks, operations and investigations have been suspended. The Cancer Association reports that more than 50,000 screening studies have been exposed only in the cancer field, and 320,000 fewer patients were treated in hospitals in March and April, compared to last year. It will take a very long time to recover the retarded and healthy cows that have built up in our healthcare system. Since mid-March, specialist health services have largely had to give priority to resources for increased preparedness and emergency treatment of patients with coronary syndrome. Through the revised national budget, regional health enterprises have been compensated for by 5.5 billion. $ plus $0.5 billion. NOK i reduced employer’s fee. To take more of the health cows that have arisen in the last period, the Progress Party has negotiated 600 million. For the purchase of several treatments in the private sector, on which we depend to succeed. I'm not going to go into any detail on an evaluation of what could have been done differently under the corona pandemic to avoid the long health queues we see now, but effort-driven funding has not been part of the challenge picture. Regional health enterprises have not notified liquidity challenges during this period. Yes, when planned operations have to be put in a state of emergency, it becomes more difficult for hospitals to do something about their income side, but the Progress Party considers the hospital economy as protected by the revised national budget and the extra billions allocated to regional health businesses through just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1942	Hospitals are in a critical period due to the covid-19 pandemic. The labour pressure has increased, the queues for necessary treatment have increased considerably, and hospitals have been bleeding money because of the system of input-driven financing. Why? Because hospitals run almost like shops. Market-driven thinking is that hospitals will help more people if they get incentives in terms of money per treatment. When hospitals cannot treat people because of the pandemic, hospitals lose income from the state, as they cannot perform regular treatments. This means that if we're in a crisis, the hospitals lose income. Think about it. Long! Under a pandemic, when hospitals need more resources, hospitals lose resources. Hospitals and health workers have always worked to help sick people. The results of the covid-19 pandemic have shown that health professionals help people and use the resources of those who need it the most, without the coercion that ISF is. Intervention-driven funding is a top-heavy management of hospitals that does not take into account the knowledge, experience and needs of hospitals. Although the hospitals have now received additional funds, it is impossible for us to know what the funds cover. Hospitals need financial assistance for the extra costs resulting from covid-19 and good financial assistance for the retarded treatment. Hospitals must now, as quickly as possible, have the necessary guarantees and a good budget. They need a predictable economy, which will provide framework funding. Those who work on the floor need a framework budget, so that they can use their knowledge and experience to help more people, without the coercion that ISF is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1957	The representatives wrote in their proposal that hospitals are bleeding money because of input-driven funding, and asked me to remove the scheme during the coronary apathy. More specifically, the proposers ask that the effort-driven financing mechanism be halted for 2020 and that the allocation to the scheme be given as framework funding. I would like to start by stressing that health regions receive income from the state every month. The amounts paid are based on the appropriations decided by the Storting in the State budget for 2020. These payments are therefore not affected by the decline in healthcare activity that we have seen in recent months. Normally, the appropriations for input-driven financing are adjusted towards the end of the year, when we have better information about the activity that has taken place. Hospitals have had to give priority to emergency work in recent months, and it has not been possible to maintain normal activity. It is therefore necessary to compensate for lost income during that period. At the business meeting on 10 June, health regions were informed that compensation will be granted for lost activity-based income up to and including May, and that this can be used as a basis for planning. In the future, I expect hospitals to resume normal operations as far as possible. In such a situation, it is important that the activity-based funding system allows hospitals to function and motivate them to increase their activity. At the same time, infectious disease protection and preparedness considerations may lead to increased expenditure and reduced revenues for health businesses in the future. We will follow closely the development of health regions' expenditure and revenue in the future and, if necessary, return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for funding. In the revised national budget, the government has proposed to strengthen the basic appropriations of regional health enterprises by 5.5 billion. kr. It is also estimated that half a billion dollars will be saved for a reduced employer’s fee. The Directorate for Health has been authorised to incur expenditure without budgetary cover for medicinal products and medical devices related to the outbreak of the virus.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1973	Why does the government not want to send the entire health budget to the hospitals as a framework funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1979	That's because it will reduce our ability to, among other things. to take back the delay that has now arisen as a result of the corona virus, and we risk that the waiting times and the queues will be longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1984	So the Health Minister says there's going to be more queue? Why? I thought health professionals would spend all their time and resources helping people. Does the government think that health professionals won't work so fast if they don't get input-driven funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1989	This is not about the speed of the individual working in the healthcare system in their job. I think that's good enough. They are both busy and doing a good job as well as possible. This is about how services are organised, and input-driven funding has contributed to increased activity in our hospitals and reduced waiting times.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1994	Why does the Minister of Health think that health professionals if they do not receive input-driven funding will work slower or give less treatment to those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e1999	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2004	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2012	The store is now taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2036	Then we're ready to go to voting. The size must first vote on the case No. 12 and 13 on yesterday's agenda, no. Ninety-six.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2048	A total of 43 proposals have been put forward during the debate. With regard to proposals Nos. 19 and 22, the President will refer to the fifth paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure and that these proposals will therefore not be taken into consideration for voting. If someone's wondering why, it's because identical suggestions have been taken up earlier in the session and the vote over. There is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government, at the latest, to make proposals for a large-scale investment in offshore wind power on a Norwegian base, with a target of at least 100 TWh of annual production by 2030.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2067	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39, 40 and 42, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal 39 reads: ‘The government is asked to ensure that 80 % of the financing of large collective investment is provided by the State, in return for the commitment of cities to measures to limit car traffic through urban growth agreements.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately stop the allocation and opening of new oil and gas fields on Norwegian base, while at the same time starting a gradual and planned phase-out of the petroleum activity over a 15-year period.’» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the planning of two full-scale wind turbines, one floating and one bottom-solid, in the oil and energy departments at the hearing, Utsira Nord and Südlige Nordsjö.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2096	There is a vote on proposal No. 43, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case to the Stortinget, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2021, on how Norway can best contribute to the conversion of the European energy system from fossil to renewable sources.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2113	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the State contributes 70 pst. the financing of large collective investment, in return for the commitment of cities to measures to limit car traffic through urban growth agreements.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2131	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25–37, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a reinforced target to the United Nations for Norway to cut its greenhouse gas emissions by 60 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990.’» Proposal No. 26 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that the public, which is a major tenant, requires at least energy class A in all new leases.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to increase compensation to freight companies for the increases in rail freight charges to a minimum of 200 million. crowns, in the context of the revised national budget 2020.’;» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a levy on fossil plastic packaging, but with the possibility of negotiating a binding industry agreement for emission reduction with the authorities.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for permits for new farms to require zero greenhouse gas emissions or the use of renewable sustainable fuels for installations and operating vessels for those plants by 2021 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment to change the emissions permit to the Kårstø terminal – with a view to electrifying the terminal with power from the network – and to present a separate case to the Stortinget in this respect.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment to modify the emission permit to Hammerfest LNG, replacing the gas power plant with power from the network, and to entrust Statnet with the task of strengthening the power infrastructure to Melkoya’. Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a regulation warning of a ban on the use of fossil oil for heating purposes in industry by 2023. The regulation must be submitted by the government during the ageing period 2017-2021.» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to set out requirements for gas marketers for a certain proportion of biogas compared to the volume traded. Such a requirement may not be at the expense of the competitiveness of the greenhouse industry.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to mandate Enova to establish its own agricultural programme aimed in particular at technology development to reduce emissions of biogentmethane and liquefaction gas and increase carbon uptake in soil.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the financing of the work of targeted advice on individual farms and to refer to the Agriculture Climate Company SA, which is established to facilitate more climate-efficient Norwegian food production.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an investigation into the impact of climate change on agriculture.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in the context of the Climate Communication with proposals for zero and low-emission solutions for offshore supply ships. The requirements shall enter into force no later than 2025.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2212	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Central Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for environmental differentiation of port charges and all ship-related charges, so that it becomes profitable to convert emissions-free solutions. Such introduction must include an assessment of and proposals for financial compensation for the loss of income resulting from environmental differentiation.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2229	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the State contributes up to 70 pst. the financing of large collective investment, in return for the commitment of cities to measures to limit car traffic through urban growth agreements.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2246	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–18 and 20 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens' Environment Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal to ensure that construction sites in all construction projects published in public tenders are free of emissions’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a proposal to the Storting to ensure a reduced greenhouse gas load from building materials used.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government requests the use of a certain proportion of recycled materials in all public construction projects.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to determine how low-emission requirements can be imposed in public acquisitions using cement/concrete so that materials produced with CO2 capture can have a greater competitive advantage and submit the case to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to speed up its efforts to extend the offer of urban growth agreements to several cities.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the work on urban growth agreements also support the objective of fossil-free public transport and zero-emission targets, not only reduced emissions from public transport, as is the objective of the Government’s Plan for fossil-free public transport in 2025.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to follow the decision of the Storting to draw up requirements under the Public Acquisitions Act that all new ferries and scheduled vessels should use low or zero emission technologies where the situation indicates that this is possible.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the hydrogen action plan to oblige Enova to stimulate the increased use of hydrogen as a reducing agent through risk relief and support for industrial scale demonstration facilities and full scale pilot projects.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives to improve the quality of roughage in agriculture with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing self-sufficiency.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for better use of fertilisers through the use of positive incentives in agricultural production, such as increased investment and drainage subsidies.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new reinforced proposals to stimulate the increased use of manure in biogas plants.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives to increase the use of captive and biocarbons to strengthen carbon storage in soil. Priority should be given to instruments that strengthen the establishment of circular value chains in the use of biocarbon.’» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare sectoral action plans, with the emission budget, in the context of the forthcoming Climate Change Communication, to reduce emissions by 2030.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the environmental assessments of the hearings carried out by the Ministry of the Environment in relation to the granting of extraction permits for petroleum activities are publicly available.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2332	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-four, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose that construction sites in all construction projects published in public tenders be emission-free by 2025. The proposal must address a cost-sharing solution or funding model between the State and the municipality for any additional costs.’.» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2349	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-5, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide an investigation into how the public as a tenant may require at least energy class A in all new leases in new buildings.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that permits for new farms require zero greenhouse gas emissions or the use of renewable sustainable fuels for installations and operating vessels for those installations through a phase-in scheme from 2021 to 2026.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Directorate-General for the Environment to assess changes in the emissions permit to the Kårstø terminal – with a view to electrifying the terminal with power from the network – and to present a separate case to the Stortinget in this respect.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2379	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the replacement of the basic charge on one-off packaging by an incentive charge based on material use graduated according to non-renewable content, and to initiate negotiations for an obliging industry agreement in this area.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2396	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how public tenders are to be used to promote zero-emission solutions in public transport, so that all public transport becomes fossil-free by 2025 at the latest, with a corresponding subsidy scheme for increased costs resulting from the introduction of zero-emission technologies.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2413	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2444	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2463	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 8-12, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13 to 15, from Åslaug Sem-Jakobsen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to lay down a plan for all counties to have at least one separate building protection centre in charge of local museums and/or voluntary cultural memory organisations, and to come back with proposals for state operating support to them when the government’s proposal for conservation strategies is promoted for the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2493	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 15, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks, in the preparation of detailed guidelines for ‘special reasons’ under the Culture Memory Act Section 10, that extensions and new constructions of agricultural buildings on common farms always constitute particular grounds for the State to cover the costs of archaeological excavations.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked to adequately explain how a large transfer of tasks from the Riksantik product to the county councils does not involve a substantial transfer of funds from the former to the latter.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2517	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-12, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether synergies would be available to bring together the cultural heritage sectors of the country and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to incorporate a permanent conservation limit for national minority cultural memories, including women’s cultural memories, in the work of the announced law revision in the cultural memory field.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to present a major report on archaeology in Norway, where the government is building on a stronger commitment to research and dissemination, while at the same time assessing whether the State should better facilitate so-called research excavations and strengthen the state funding of these.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the instruments that can be used to focus more strongly on post-reform archaeology in Norway in the context of its own survey on archaeology.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow up the national target of commitment by ensuring that all member organisations of the Swedish Cultural Protection Association receive basic support above cap. 1400 item 70 in the State budget or by other appropriate means.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2557	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain conservation programmes in the cultural memory field in order to achieve the established objectives and to propose deadlines for this.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2575	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Biggest Requests the National Audit Board to evaluate how the national cultural memory protection targets have been followed up after the Stortingen treatment of Notifier. St. 35 The future with footholds, with a view to clarifying why the national objectives of cultural memory protection have not been achieved by 2020.’» [[2012-2013]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose objectives for cultural environment policy with concrete targets and deadlines and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a separate case to the Storting on new conservation strategies in the field of the cultural environment and at the same time to explain how it will coordinate and strengthen the relevant economic instruments.’ [[including thematic selection, performance targets and indicators]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a timely escalation plan for the funds managed by the Cultural Memory Fund at Røros.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The budget is requested by the Government of the State budget for 2021 to submit proposals ensuring that the transfer of tasks from the Riksantik product to the counties is fully financed.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to explain how Norway can resume cooperation with other countries to bring culture memories and cultural environments from the Viking Age into the UNESCO World Heritage List, including account of which Norwegian sites — including the naves of Borre, Oseberg and Gokstad, as well as the kvernstein breaches in Hyllestad — can be considered as Norway’s new contribution.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2620	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2635	Furthermore, the following were set: II The government asks the government to assume that one of the new conservation strategies is about churches, and that in this respect it is based on a goal that all medieval stone churches should have a standard level of maintenance by the 1 000th anniversary of the Battle of Stiklestad in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2642	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2654	Furthermore, the following were set: III Report. St. 16 [[2019-2020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2666	The cancellation then goes over to vote on the matter no. 1 to 9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2678	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 2, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 4, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: in the following provisions, the adjustment factor ‘1,33’ is replaced by ‘1,70’: 1st@item: inlistbox § 10-11, first paragraph, second sentence 2nd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, fourth paragraph, third sentence 3rd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, seventh paragraph, third sentence 4th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, first paragraph, fourth sentence 5th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, second paragraph, second sentence 6th@item: inlistbox § 10-42, third paragraph, point (b) 7th@item: inlistbox § 10-44, first paragraph, third sentence II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2020 year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2740	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: In the following provisions, the adjustment factor ‘1,33’ is replaced by ‘1,64’: 1st@item: inlistbox § 10-11, first paragraph, second sentence 2nd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, fourth paragraph, third sentence 3rd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, seventh paragraph, third sentence 4th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, first paragraph, fourth sentence 5th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, second paragraph, second sentence 6th@item: inlistbox § 10-42, third paragraph, point (b) 7th@item: inlistbox § 10-44, first paragraph, third sentence II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2020 year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2786	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: In the following provisions, the adjustment factor ‘1,33’ is replaced by ‘1,6’: 1st@item: inlistbox § 10-11, first paragraph, second sentence 2nd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, fourth paragraph, third sentence 3rd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, seventh paragraph, third sentence 4th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, first paragraph, fourth sentence 5th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, second paragraph, second sentence 6th@item: inlistbox § 10-42, third paragraph, point (b) 7th@item: inlistbox § 10-44, first paragraph, third sentence II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2020 year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2832	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size request the Government to lay down, as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of 2020, provisions making it clear that the circumvention rule applies where funds that have not been subject to dividend tax could otherwise be used for private purposes’. [[tax law § 13-2]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2850	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an assessment of whether Norwegian tax rules and Norwegian tax practices adequately ensure the distinction between private and commercial purposes and prevent business resources from being used for private purposes without first being taxed or taxed in any other appropriate way’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e2865	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3627	It is contested by E, Section 14-5, fourth paragraph. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3641	The remainder of E as well as A-D and F-J are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3651	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3661	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3779	It is quoted above I, § 5-14, first paragraph, point (a) of the last sentence. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3793	It is votered over I, § 4-17, second paragraph. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3807	The first paragraph of Paragraphs 6 to 53 and II and III shall apply. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3821	It's going to be over the rest of the I. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3835	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3849	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3861	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 7-10, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 11, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to come back with an adjustment to the compensation scheme by a suspended leave that extends the duration of the scheme, but that enterprises should continue to be able to receive a salary subsidy for only two months».
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3888	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 9, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants on a suspended leave cannot pay dividends or make share buy-backs in the remainder of 2020 and 2021’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that companies receiving grants in the event of termination of leave cannot go to redundancies of employees in 2020’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3910	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants on a suspended leave cannot pay executive bonuses in the remainder of 2020 and 2021’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants in the event of termination of leave shall not have final decisions/judgments against them relating to labour crime, social dumping, tax evasion or non-residential offences’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that grants are not paid on a suspended leave in cases where the employee is to be hired, except in cases where rental is justified by the Working Environment Act § 14-13 [[renting between production enterprises]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants with a suspended leave commit not to increase management salaries or management fees in excess of the average salary increase in the remainder of 2020 and 2021’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants under a suspended leave cannot have parent companies in third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to require major companies receiving grants in the event of termination of leave, to enter into contracts with trustees to maintain jobs and invest in the competence of employees».
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e3953	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4180	Alternatively, between the suspension section 5, fourth and eighth paragraphs, and the proposals No. 8 and 10, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The law on grants by way of suspension of leave § 5 eighth paragraph is replaced by the following: the Ministry may provide for the supplement of this paragraph and lay down detailed conditions for grants, including that beneficiaries of grants cannot pay dividends or make share buy-backs in 2020 or 2021, that beneficiaries of grants cannot pay bonuses to senior employees in 2020 or 2021, that beneficiaries of grants undertake not to increase executive or management fees beyond average wage increases in 2020 and 2021 and that beneficiaries of grants cannot have parent companies in third-country jurisdictions that are on the EU blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions. [[8]] The Ministry may include rules restricting the employer’s access to new leave, dismissals or reductions in working time between 28 May and 1 January 2021.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The law on grants in the event of a termination of a permit pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Section 5 shall be replaced by the following: The employee may not be terminated or terminated before 1 January 2021’. [[4]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4206	It is voted over by the rest of Section 5 and other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4216	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4226	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4238	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 2, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the extension of the full pay compensation scheme for a minimum of 20 days in the case of leave.’ [[up to 6 G]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4264	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4293	Alternatively, vote between the setting and proposal No 1 from the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 6 May 1988 No 22 on compulsory pay during the period of leave is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: An employer is obliged to pay the periodic salary and other compensation of work for a period of 5 days [[employee period I]] Paragraph 3(b) is deleted’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4328	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4338	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4624	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 3 submitted after the deadline, cf. Paragraph 40 of the Rules of Procedure, but the President has reason to believe that the proposal will have a majority, and will thus take it to the vote. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the government to withdraw the stoppage application and to ensure that the application is used only for the purpose of infection detection, and to maintain the data protection promise.’ The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4655	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from Right, Left, and Christian People's Party. ‘The government asks the Government to change the Contagion Stop application and to ensure that those who download the app are given the opportunity to share their consent. One for the detection of infection and one for the acquisition of knowledge.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4701	Alternatively, point 2 of the second part of the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Room number II, point 2, is replaced by the following: Paragraphs 4 to 3a are repealed on 1 November 2020’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4722	It shall be counted above I and II, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4732	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4745	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4861	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4871	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4917	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4927	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4939	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to extend the limitation of self-determined abortion to the 16th week of pregnancy.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and establish advisory teams throughout the country, with qualified health professionals who support and guide the woman and ensure the woman’s genuine self-determination, as compensation for today’s treatment system in the event of termination of pregnancy after week 12. ‘... Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4972	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to present a case with proposals to repeal § 2a of Law 13 June 1975 No. 50 in case of termination of pregnancy.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an evaluation of the functioning of today’s abortion subjects and to identify alternative solutions that ensure the self-determination of the woman.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e4996	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5015	Then we have carried out the voting on yesterday's map and the matters that have so far been dealt with on today's map. We have come to Case No. 12 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5031	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5038	The issue we are now going to deal with is a big one in terms of the content and the number of issues that have been mentioned. It has been a big deal to deal with and a lot of substance to go through for us in the Control and Constitutional Committee. I want to thank you for good cooperation, and I want to thank you in particular, I allow myself to say my adviser, Marianne Seip, and those who work for us every day, who have had a great job going through the many things. What is the starting point is that we have to review the majority decisions in the Grand Duchy. It can sometimes be a little bit tiring for us who are in opposition, because sometimes it's like we'd wish we had made other decisions, when we've meant something other than the majority. But that's what's decided in the Storting, which we're going to consider whether has been followed up by the government. Report. St. 12 is an important tool in Stortingen's control of the government. There has been a lot of work, as I said, because we have to a large extent got it measured against the information given by the government in Meld. Article 1 in the areas of the various departments, often referring to how the government has followed up the decision of the Storting. To make things look a little bit complicated, it's like that in Prop. 1 S is referred to 122 request decisions in the Ministry of Health and Health, while in the message we are now dealing with, no. 12, only 83 are accounted for. So we've all of the other people we've had to read across to find ourselves. That's the background for – I guess I can lick so much from the so-called Harberg Committee – that one of our ambitions is to propose that Melding. St. 12 in the future shall be provided at the same time as Prop. 1 S. It'll be a big advantage for the government, which then doesn't partly do the same job twice, and it'll be a big advantage for the Storting, which also gets updated numbers. In addition to the differences in reporting, when a few months go by, the request decision may be complied with since the previous information to the Storting. What the government is doing better now than in the past – which we have said before and which has thus improved – is that concrete decisions are actually taken in the Storting to repeal the request decisions when the government believes that they should be lifted and the majority of the population agrees. It's neat. It is much better than what came from the Ministry of Knowledge, Decision No. 651, which I can only use as an example of the opposite, where it was suggested that children and grandchildren should not lose citizenship because of mistakes committed by their parents or grandparents, where the government simply says that they do not intend to follow up the decision. That's not the right way to do it. Decisions that the government itself believes it has implemented were partly omitted from this message, and we ask that it be included in future messages. But if we can get at the same time, it'll make the job much easier. Now there are less than 300 so-called open decisions, i.e. live request decisions that the government has not followed up. The Verstingene – the stagings are here – is the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which has 66 open decisions, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which has 40, and the Ministry of Justice and Defence has 39. It is a democratic problem if the voters do not see that having a decision in the Grand Duchy leads to follow-up. Last night, it was well, we discussed ‘Some things about aviation, road and mail’. Then there was an example of a concrete decision that had not been followed up by the government. Then Stortinget took the roof and cleaned it up. But it is an example that democracy must be understood in such a way that when decisions are taken by the elected people, they are binding on the government. So in the end, I would like to say that it is up to us as wholesale representatives to make sure that the request decision is clear. There we can sometimes have something to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5067	The President will only point out that it is not enough within the parliamentary vocabulary to call state councils ‘hosts’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5072	I am sure the representative will find other words to use to describe the same, but we will have to do so in a different context. I just wanted to follow up the rapporteur's posts and thank you for the efforts that have been made. It is a formidable job to go through all the request decisions and what has been signed out and not. It's true, as he referred to, that in the sample that's reduced to look at the Storting's control routine, we're actually looking at how we can do this better in the future. The government has become better at following up, but we still have the disadvantage that there are two reporting times, and that makes it difficult. So for all parties it would be beneficial to bring this together at one point, namely in the autumn when the budget is presented. Then I also need to state that yes, that there are some departments on which there are several request decisions left, can have something to do with the amount being made against these departments. So it might not be quite fair just to look at the number that's left -- it has something to do with how many have been promoted towards the different departments. But that's our political tool. The request decision is a – I would say – both necessary and recognised tool in political work, so it should be. But I am more concerned that there are some request decisions that lie quite many years back in time. The government should take a closer look at how they have systems to sign out those that remain over several major years. Because it is clear that when we have decisions four, five and six years in time, all the assumptions about the decision may also have changed so much that it becomes difficult to follow them up. So there's a request to have routines in the government to check out which of them have been the longest, that can be removed in a neat and good way or followed up in a neat and good way. We then receive good treatment of the request decisions and good use of the request decisions, such as the dialogue between the magnification and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5083	The government has too poor procedures to follow up and sign out requests decisions, including decisions from many years back in time. The Government, in its main communication, states that the relevant professional committees have not had comments on the receipt of the request decisions in the State budget proposal. However, the Centre Party and SV find examples of the fact that both the Committee majority and the minority have had comments on the government's follow-up to the request decision, while the Ministry notes that there have been no comments. We therefore ask the government to change its practice so that there are no false claims in letters to the Storting that the Committee has not had any comments and that the minority comments of the Committee should also be taken as comments. How have we come into the situation of a failure to follow up decisions? Well, it looks like the government does not follow up decisions where some representatives of the parties have agreed on a new majority in the cases. That's what's happening. There are some representatives who agree that the decision that was taken does not now have a majority and that is why we do not have to follow it up. The whole treatment here is that we can't have such a practice. If there is a new majority, yes, the government must present a case, a decision, to repeal a majority decision. I hope the whole hall agrees on that. I see that the representative Harberg is nodding, and I really appreciate that. The organisation of courts is an example of such a case. A decision was taken in 2018 to strengthen the courts so that they could implement the cases within a reasonable period of time. The Workers’ Party, the Centre’s Party and the SV have a comment that Storting’s agreed time limits for judicial proceedings are not reached by the courts and therefore do not consider the decision to follow up – a strong and clear argument. Furthermore, in the case of the strengthening of the janitor's offices, Decision No. 579 from 2018 – it was unanimous: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ And then the government answers that one has increased the number of posts in the police. There's no answer to that. When the majority parties Right, Left and the Advance Party and independent representative Leirstein say that in the vote, I think it's an argument that one should hold too well, because that's de facto a wrong argument in relation to the decision. Similarly, in the case of the establishment of national stocks for cereals, Decision No. 445 from 2018: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Storting during 2019 for the establishment of national stockpiles of cereals.’ That's where the committee says, and I'm very happy about it. ‘The Committee records that the Government does not intend to bring its own case and indicates that the repeal of decisions should take place by making proposals to that effect.’;» That's excellent, then we've done it the way it should be done. To that matter, it's just to say, in the case we're going to discuss on Thursday, the government parties say that emergency stockpiles are not something you need, because trade goes no matter what situation the world is in, pandemic or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5114	I would like to start by thanking both the rapporteur and the committee secretariats very much for their enormous work on this matter. The treatment is very demanding. The way in which the case has been dealt with is not entirely in line with the importance of the case, because the follow-up to the Enlargement's request decision is an essential part of the control function of the Storting. Today, the vast majority of decisions taken in this Chamber, which are not proposed by the government itself, are taken as a request decision. It makes sense, because this house doesn't, and will never get, the kind of investigation capacity that the government and its government have. This is why the request decisions become so important, so the follow-up of the decisions by the government becomes so important and therefore our control of them again becomes so important. In this year's case, we can count up to about 300 decisions that will remain open, and that still have to be followed up by the government before we can say that Storting's will has been carried out. My predecessor in the Control and Constitutional Committee said in a similar debate on this matter last year: think how many cake parties there are behind all those decisions. Think about how many very important things there are too many people in these decisions. The government's follow-up to each decision is therefore about a fundamental principle of our people's rule, but also about a lot of small and important things for people we represent. Then I will finally draw out a few things in the matter of the year. When the way in which these matters are dealt with is challenging initially, it would at least be nice if the government did not contribute to making it more difficult. In the big news, the government reproduces letters from the departments, which claim that relevant professional committees have not had any comments when the government in the government budget proposals proposes a decision that was followed up in the final analysis. Nevertheless, we have found more examples of this not being true. One thing is that a minority in the trade committee have had comments, and that the government doesn't mention it in its letters, but when we also find examples of majority, it gets even worse. The type of, at best, simplified claims, in the worst case, direct errors from the government, in their correspondence with the Storting there is reason to be critical of itself, and that makes the task of Stortinget more difficult. In addition, the government does not mention the decisions they themselves believe have been implemented in the notification of the year. I am not going to go into any examples now, but there are some problems with the follow-up – many decisions taken in 2016 and 2017 that have not yet been followed up, concrete wordings with deadlines that have not been followed up, etc. The Committee therefore points out that several departments appear to have insufficient procedures. It has to be better, and I hope the Council of State and all of them come up with their articles on how to make those procedures better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5129	The government conscientiously follows up the request decisions of Stortinget, has a high degree of implementation and is constantly working to improve the processes to ensure this. We have also taken several steps in recent years to improve reporting to the Storting on the request decisions. Mainly, it has been the preparation of standardised feedback on all outstanding decisions in the annual budgetproposals. In the announcement of the year, the Government, at the request of the Storting, has also extended the scope of the decisions referred to. It also applies to outstanding decisions from previous sessions than the last two. It appears from the opinion that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is satisfied with the work of the Government in dealing with these changes. Then we record that the Control and Constitutional Committee still has some desire for further reporting in the notification, and we will take this into account in the work on next year's big news. The government will continue to work to improve reporting, but at the same time will need to ensure that there will be no greater duplication of reporting both in the State budget and in the key message of the request decisions than we have today. It is important that the decision-making decisions relating to the State budget are dealt with in a real and thorough manner, and that this too can be used as a basis for the notification of requests.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5149	In its field, the Council of State has only 66 decisions that have not yet been followed up, if I have counted correctly. Six of them are even from the 2015–2016 session, from the previous grossing-up period. They're not yet followed up. In its Opinion, the Committee notes that in several departments there appear to be too poor procedures so far in order to follow up and sign out requests decisions, in particular those from several years back, and believes that this in several departments needs to be followed up more quickly and more clearly than today. We don't have the Prime Minister with us, who can answer on behalf of all of his government councils, so I have to assume that the Council of State Höie can answer on behalf of the government just how the government will respond to the unanimous order from the committee, and not least how it is possible that decisions from five, six, seven years ago have not yet been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5157	As I said in my post, the government will look at the requests that now come from the committee, as we did last time, and made changes to the notice. Of course, we'll look at that now. In connection with last year's setting, a sample was set up, which has also been referred to in the debate, which well started out as the Hareide Committee, but which is now the Harberg Committee. The government looks forward to the evaluations of the sample of any need to regulate the form of the decision and to clarify the status of the request decisions and the manner in which this should be done. It'll be important. Some of the decisions taken are difficult to obtain a concrete receipt of. Decisions may be taken in the Storting, for example: concerns the health care of the municipality, which I do not have direct control over. This means that the ministry may have an assessment that it has improved, while the Storting estimates that there has not been any improvement in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5166	Thanks for the answer. We're waiting in excitement for how this can get simpler in the future. I want to ask the Council of States a general question in addition, about the follow-up of decisions. There are several concrete examples of this. When the Stortinget decides to ask the government to do something, for example: strengthen a certain offer, perhaps it is about the municipalities even, and the government proposes to sign out the proposal in the light of something that had been done before the decision of the Storting, has the government done what Stortinget asks for? We have to assume that the Storting knows what's already done, and can imagine, for example. further strengthen this offer. A concrete example of such a decision now is Decision No. 23 from 15 November 2018, on the competence and capacity of municipalities to assume responsibility if the rehabilitation unit 2 East of Eigersund is laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5173	This is not always easy to give an answer with two lines of reference, because my experience is also that the Stortinget makes decisions in areas where the Stortinget gets information in advance, both in response to the Stortinget from the department and from me on the pulpit, that what the Stortinget is now adopting is a work that the government has already carried out or is in the process of implementing. Then there will soon be a discussion afterwards whether Stortinget believes it is good enough or not. In the specific case, it is that Health Stavanger has followed this up against the municipality of Eigersund, and Eigersund Municipality has received significant amounts through the recovery plan for the rehabilitation field just to strengthen that competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5180	I'm going to be allowed to say first that I wasn't aware that ‘hosting’ was an unparliamentary expression, but now one is here, I kept saying. But I have a question as to whether it may be a misunderstanding going out and going. As I said, it was for the Ministry of Health and Health that of the 122 request decisions mentioned in Prop. 1 S for 2019-2020, only 83 are mentioned in the Report. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following Then I wonder if there might be a misunderstanding, that some government councils believe that the report that's in the proposition is checkout with the Storting. I just want to make it clear that it is when we deal with Meld. Article 12 to check out all decisions. We have seen a development in which the government sometimes does not mention decisions that they themselves believe have been complied with, but it also hampers the control function of the Stortinge. So my question is: Is the Council of State aware that it is only when the matter is mentioned in the Report. St. 12 and checked that the matter was finally dealt with by the government following a request from Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5189	I am a little uncertain about whether the representative started by saying ‘now it’s here’ or ‘now it’s there’, but you can always discuss it. I perceive that this is one of the conditions that are now included in the setting, so there is something we need to look at. But I understand that once we've practiced it that way, we've thought that decisions can be signed out in Prop. 1 S, when the committee joins it, and that they are accepted. There will then be a discussion of the length of time for which decisions will be taken. It is often the committee that has taken the decisions and knows what has been desired by the committee. But now we see that these questions are raised again by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and then we have to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5196	I dare say nothing more, I!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5201	Just to clarify, it's calling a state council a "worst," that is, to characterize, as this prime minister thinks is unparliamentary use of words. Then it's explained. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5208	Actually, I don't have much to add to what Councillor Höie has said, but let me make a few comments from here. A welcome decision is something one should respect, and follow up. I have myself contributed to a number of them in the previous growing-up period and met them on the other side of the door, in the department, later. So that there should be some evil will behind, is probably very rarely the case. On the contrary, it is important to follow up what the Storting assumes. There might be a little bit of different reasons why things take time. Of course, it is not good for my own area that it is still approx. 40 non-target call decisions. It probably has a little to do with what the representative Harberg was about, that there have been a lot of welcome decisions in my area – and that's good, because the Storting has a lot of commitment to climate and environmental issues. What I want to add in addition to that, is that many of the appeal decisions that have not been finally signed up from my side, often have reasons that concern, for example, that there are some complex EEA legal issues that need to be addressed and addressed, in particular because there is often parallel work in the EU. This applies not least to waste and the circular economy. The second is that very many of these appeal decisions also naturally slip into what is larger, thorough work in the ministry, for example. the major work on the 2030 climate plan, which Stortinget will be presented separately during the year, for example: the circular economy strategy, to be ready during the year, etc. So that's probably an explanation too. So, of course, it's so that things running get signed out. One thing, for example: was not ready before in ours, which is now ready, is the hydrogen strategy. So things are being completed running – and hopefully to the joy of Stortinget. Then the representative was Andersen in that he thinks it's a democratic problem that things aren't always followed up fast enough. It may be a point of agreement, but I want to add a point, and that is that sometimes a call for decisions is also taken that – what to say – need additional democratic hearing before an actual one does. A good example of that is from earlier this spring, when the majority against the government decided that one should have changes in the rules for motor travel in the outland, without that proposal being entirely heard in the public sphere. Then I said very clearly to Stortinget that I would send it on my hearing before we change the regulation. I felt that the Storting accepted. I mean, of course, the Storing is right to make decisions, but it's also important that when you're going to make big changes that mean a lot to people, they're also going to be heard wide, if that hasn't already been the case. And such things can take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5230	I would like to ask the Council of State for one of the request decisions which the government itself thought had been fulfilled and which the Government Parties of the Energy and Environment Committee also thought had been fulfilled, and which must now be considered to be under the jurisdiction of the Council of State, Rotevatn, when it comes to energy efficiency improvement. The decision dates from 2017, when Stortinget asked for an action plan to show how to achieve the target of 10 TWh energy saving in construction by 2030. A concrete phasing-out plan in construction and an instrument package with existing and new instruments would then be needed to achieve this objective. Since the Council of State assumed responsibility for Enova from 1 May 2018, it is natural that it is the Minister for Climate and Environment who is following up this Decision. So my question is, when does this action plan come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5239	The government is continuously working with a range of tools to ensure that we achieve more energy-efficient construction. It has, for example, come up with a series of reports on this in connection with the work on the climate plan. We are actively using Enova through different schemes to back it up. So that's what I'm saying is a work that's at its highest level in the right direction. I would like to continue a dialogue with the representative Haltbrecken on what he thinks should be done in this way. There I get many recordings every day, but I would like to receive more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5247	I thank you for the answer, and I also thank you for the invitation. Of course, we're going to accept that. Otherwise, the decision taken and the unanimous comment of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which indicates that this decision has not been complied with, is also very good. Let me then ask about another request decision, which is a bit fresher. It is from February 2018 and is about to remove the pollution from the artificial grass tracks in Norway. Here Stortinget decided that new regulations would come into force from 1 January 2019 in order to prevent what is the second largest source of microplastics spread on the Norwegian land. The question is short and good: when does the regulation that should have been in place a year and a half ago come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5254	The answer is that this proposal has been being heard. The Environment Directorate has developed a proposal on how to regulate it. I agree with the representative Haltbrecken that there is an important issue, and that it is a major source of contamination of microplastics. It's been listening, and we've got a lot of feedback. It is in particular an example of what I was in my main post, that it is important that proposals be heard. There are many objections from municipalities, but also from different sports teams and organizations about who will pay for this and how to do it, which is the most accurate way of doing things. I can assure you that we are following this in the government now. We're still not done with it, for example. For the reasons I mentioned, but as I said, we have done the first part of the job that was getting a proposal, and we now have to make a conclusion, hopefully, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5261	I will not oppose the fact that things are being sent to the hearing, and that things can be explained, but it is now two and a half years since the decision was taken in Stortinget. A change of regulations should not take that long, strictly speaking. Can the Council of States assure us that by 2020 we will have this regulation in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5266	I can't say exactly when we land a conclusion on this. We have to land a good solution first that will meet many of the objections that have come to our attention, both from local authorities, volunteers and others. But I want to say that we have done well on that process internally, and I hope that we can get a solution ready as soon as possible, because this is an important question to address, similar to a lot of other questions about plastics, pollution and microplastics. There are also several call-up decisions about that, and we are also working on different strategies to deal with it and not least follow up several new EU rules in the area that are important for other countries as well as Norway. – So I'm not going to say here now when this regulation is ready, but I can assure you that we work with her and she has a high priority, and that I hope that we can get her ready as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5273	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5280	As we heard at the outset today, there are about 40 request decisions in the Ministry of Climate and Environment that are still not met. This is partly decisions that lie quite a few years back in time, dealing with very important issues. If the government had followed up these decisions in time, we would have been doing well to cut emissions from the civil engineering. We could have been good at using hydrogen as an alternative to fossil fuel in trains, boats and trucks. And not least, as we heard in the line exchange now, we could have done something about the huge spread of microplastics from the country's artificial grass tracks. Rubber cullet from the artificial grass tracks is the second largest source of microplastic pollution from the Norwegian land. We could have gone further on point by point in these request decisions. We could have taken the request decision four years ago that stated that we are facing a serious seabird death, and where the Storting asked the government to come up with an action plan to secure the seabirds. It was promised in the past that it would come by 2020, but the Environment Directorate does not deliver its proposal until the end of 2020, so it probably does not come until perhaps next year. There are a number of other issues as well, and I hope that the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the rest of the government will return to the Stortinget in connection with the proposal for the State Budget for 2021, with a proper review of how they have actually intended to comply with the request decisions that remain unfulfilled by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5291	Yes, the request decision shall be followed up by the government, even if it takes time. Unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed that this is not happening to the extent that one should reasonably expect. In the course of the year’s examination of the notification of the request and investigation decisions, I also note that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the decision-making process appears to have to stress that the Councils of State are in fact obliged to follow up the decisions of the Storting and that several departments have to follow this up better – without using the term ‘hosting’. It is true that the country has a right-wing government, but that does not mean that it is optional whether to comply with the Supreme Assembly of the country. Our political system is based on confidence that the government actually implements what the National Assembly decides. Having said that, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for the constructive and sustained work they are actually doing to contribute to a system that implements several of these decisions, or, in those cases where it is not possible to implement the decisions, to ensure that they are followed up in a way that is acceptable to the Storting. It is important that the Storting carries out a continuous monitoring of compliance with the decisions taken by the Storting. The reality of this verification depends on the good interaction of the technical committees with the control and constitution committee. And as a member of a trade committee, education and research committee, I have experienced something that the members of the trade committee thought was a weakness in these control procedures. It is precisely what several have mentioned here that several sites in the Report. For example, paragraph 12 is shown. that the Education Committee has no comments on the Ministry of Education’s presentation and that revenue is taken into account for the inclusion of the Education Committee in the Ministry’s assessments. It does not result in complete correctness, and it does not give a misleading, so at least not a complete picture of the Committee's proceedings. As reported today, it appears that the technical committee has not had any comments, even if they really have. It may obscure a real disagreement as to whether decisions are being followed up, and we believe that this procedure should be looked at in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5300	I saw that the Minister of Justice asked for the floor, but then she withdrew, so I did not get a reply. That's why I want to make an article and ask questions here. In Decision No 579 from 5 April 2018 it is called – and it was a unanimous decision: ‘The government is asking for a real strengthening of the offices of local officials that remain after the implementation of the police reform.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV say that they believe that the government does not follow this decision, and that the opposite is true in the municipalities of the country, while the government parties Right and Left as well as the Progress Party and independent representative Leirstein indicate that the government has increased the number of posts in the police and considers the request decision to be fulfilled. My question to the Council of State is: Is there any argument – in relation to a unanimous decision – that the State Council supports? I would like to have a precise story from the Council of State at that point, because it is basically important that a arguer to the matter and not to anything that is, in my opinion, outside the matter. The second thing I want a response from the Council of States is: we have several examples that the government does not follow up decisions, and I said in my first post that the reason for it is very likely that some representatives of parties have agreed on a new position, i.e. a new majority, and thus the majority of the request decision falls away. Does the Council of State agree that this is not the way we can have it? If it is a majority decision by means of a request decision, it shall be followed up. It can be followed up by saying that it's drawn because it's not a majority. I ask the Council of State to tell us the story on these two points.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5316	I also had a couple of themes I was going to ask the Minister of Justice about. So I would like to invite the Council of State now to the tame of the debate to comment on some of the decisions that are in her area. For the Ministry of Justice, two decisions have returned to 2015 which have not yet been followed up. One is that the Stortinget asks the government to file a case for the limitation of intentional acts that result in death, and the other is a decision to design a compensation scheme for 110 centres that are being closed with a new structure. So it's now five years since these decisions were made, but the worse. In June 2013, the Stortinget took a decision to ask the government to submit a legislative proposal to allow the Civil Ombudsman to act as an auxiliary intervener in legal proceedings. It has not been followed up yet. I must stress – and it is important – that we in the opposition have a strong understanding that many proposals are difficult and complicated to follow up, and that they take time, and it is important that they are done properly. But I have to ask the Council of State if she can do well – here from the Chair of the Stortinge – that the department has worked well enough with these decisions, because I believe for the Biggest that a humility from the Council of State, especially on some of the suggestions she has spent a very long time on, had been greatly appreciated. And then together you can find better ways to follow up these decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5323	I didn't draw. I was set up, but I thought I didn't have to repeat the state council that Höie explained in an excellent way, namely that our job is conscientious to follow up the Storting's request decision. So it's also like they're of different character. Some are easy to follow up, some are considerably more difficult to follow up, but our job is to follow them up. To the last speaker, I would like to say that my impression after the time I have been in the Ministry of Justice is that it has not been well enough to follow up and to study, whether you agree or disagree. And to Lundtigen, it's saying that even if the bulk of the population changes, you still have to look out for the decisions that lie there. In the case of several members of staff at the Länsmannskontoret, there has been a separate debate in Stortinget. I have explained my view towards Stortinget. And here, I'm sure, the big shots are different in this request decision. My point has been whether the police districts have been strengthened. They are. Is the districts strengthened? They are. They've got more employees. But you can't count employees alone. Last night, I visited the Inland Police Station, which tells me that, for example. in the case of intelligence, they have gathered it into a unit in Hamar, but the people are out. But they're not counted when you count employees in the county offices. So it's not about how many employees there are, but what political authority and police follow-up you get, and so it's strongly strengthened in this government's time. In the case of the 110s, I'm going to get back to it quickly. Even in the case of the very old decision relating to the civil ombudsman, Stortinget will receive rapid feedback. My job is at all to try to clean up old requests, so that we get them interviewed and debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5334	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5352	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5359	It is obvious that all the laws and regulations relating to individual employment are well informed and that it is easy to follow up. In this case, there may be grounds for recalling a fact – that a politician is actually not a worker, but has a trust. In itself, it would be natural for it to lead to an even greater liability when it comes to introducing itself into the current rules that are linked to this particular profession. The law on politico pay and pay builds up under the principle of pay during the period of compulsory retirement, except if it falls under quarantine rules. One must be able to ensure that the rules for curtailment of payments and control requirements are followed. Pursuant to both the Local Government Act, the Grand Prix Compensation Act and the Political Lease Regulations, the termination benefit shall be reduced to any other income. It is always possible to discuss whether the practice and enforcement of existing legislation can be better. Something can be done with better guidance and preparation of guidelines and does not necessarily introduce regulatory changes. There should be good control of the use of public funds. Of course, this also involves moderate schemes for political wages. The presentation of this proposal for a representative may make it appear that existing legislation is deficient, but since several aspects of this proposal are already governed by law, we do not see in the Right any need for further changes now. On that basis, we do not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5370	This is the second time in two weeks that we are discussing policy-makers' salaries, follow-on pay arrangements and special arrangements that politicians have, and where it is quite staggeringly quiet from the majority of the population. It is this assembly that adopts the laws of the country, adopts arrangements for other people who lose their jobs for various reasons and who also adopt control mechanisms, which are much more stringent and have much more severe consequences, for example: for people who get their benefits from Nav when they lose their job. On the SV side, we believe that there should be no difference between people. I fully agree with the case rapporteur when she says that this is a matter of trust, and that it actually requires a greater responsibility. There have been enough cases in the last year that show that this has not worked. Is control procedures in place? Yeah, they're at least on the paper, but are they used? Until now, there have been media that have revealed several of these issues, and that would not have been revealed if the media had not checked them. What about those who get their money from Nav? It is true that if you have to have an economic income insurance in case of unemployment, you have to submit a report card. The report card clearly warns that errors can lead to criminal liability. I've talked to many people who feel that there's some kind of prejudice, that they're being suspected that they're just trying to cheat, while there's no such warning about pay after-sales schemes or other rewards that politicians get when they step out of their positions for different reasons. There have been cases now which have also referred to benefits at municipal level, and it is pointed out that the municipality is also responsible for this. Yeah, that's it, but it probably wouldn't have been useful if you had gone to Nav and said that this is where Nav should know that these rules weren't like that, and not agreed. No, there you are told that you have the responsibility of finding out very complicated rules in a very critical situation. So there's a need to go through this. I understand that there may be a little bit of different opinions about where we're going to end, but I'd like to ask the other parties here if they actually believe that there should be a difference between politicians and others who lose their jobs, and that for various reasons need income protection in the future. If you mean it, I think you should say it clearly. SV deeply disagrees with that. Then I would like to address the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5385	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5390	Let me first say that the draft representative addresses an important issue. I fully agree with the proposers that it is important to have good arrangements to prevent the misuse of public funds and that schemes for the remuneration of politicians must have legitimacy and confidence in the citizens. The different pay after-sales, retirement and after-sales arrangements are differently regulated depending on whether they relate to city, state or local government representatives. The responsibility for having good rules and procedures so that payments are made correctly, and errors are discovered, is distributed between the Stortinget, Stortingen Presidency, the departments, the county councils and the municipalities. The arrangements are adapted to the bodies to which they apply and have different methods of ensuring correct payments through control mechanisms and, where appropriate, penalties. Mispayments may be required to be repaid and, if a politician has acquired the benefit by deliberately disclosing incorrect information, this may be regarded as fraud and thus treated in accordance with the provisions of the penal code. I am not responsible for all the arrangements that are included in the proposal for a representative, and I should therefore not be told whether the arrangements are good enough. But I would like to say on a general basis that it is of course possible to discuss whether the practice and enforcement of the existing legislation can be better. In this case, it will be up to the Stortinget, the relevant departments, municipalities and county councils to provide guidance and better follow-up of the legislation. With regard to the legislation I am responsible for, which is the municipal law and the quarantine law, I do not see the need to start working on changes to these laws. The new municipal law has recently entered into force, and it is too early to say whether there is a need to make changes to the remuneration provisions. But this could be part of an evaluation of the municipal law. In the case of the Quarantine Act, a sample will be set up during June to review the Quarantine Act and to assess whether changes should be made. All political parties on the Stortinget are invited to participate in the selection with one representative each. I look forward to further discussion on this important topic and will in the meantime closely monitor the practice of the arrangements for which I am responsible, and consider whether further guidance or other measures may be needed to ensure better compliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5405	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5410	The last state council said was ‘to ensure better compliance’. Does this mean that the Council of State believes that there is too much compliance with the legislation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5415	With regard to the two laws that I am responsible for, namely the municipal law and the quarantine law, there is nothing now to suggest that there is too bad compliance with that law – at least not with regard to the municipal law, because it has recently entered into force, and it is far too early to pass judgment on how compliance with that law is. As far as the Quarantine Act is concerned, we are just going to put down a sample to review it, where all the lots on the Stortinget are invited to participate with one representative. Then it is important that the parties take part there and thus have their mark on any revision of the quarantine law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5420	However, the Council of State does have some thoughts on which principles should be applied, for example. a revision of the Quarantine Act. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that we can continue with the fact that the sanctions in the Quarantine Act are much weaker than the sanctions against people who need life support benefits on Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5425	I believe it would be wrong if I now had strong opinions about what the outcome of the Quarantine Law Committee's work would be. I think it's important at this stage to have an open mind and listen to what the Quarantine Law Committee comes with, and here too the parties will be involved. If I were to advance the conclusions, it wouldn't be necessary to put down a sample. So here I think we have to take this in the right order. And then I am absolutely sure that the views of the various parties on both compliance and sanctions in the quarantine law will be debated, including in the quarantine law committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5431	The question of justice in such matters is of course a political question, and the Council of State is both a Council of State and a politician, so it must be possible to have a view on a valuable position like this. Does the Council agree that there should be more stringent sanctions for ordinary people travelling on Nav and stricter control procedures for the performances they receive than for politicians who receive the same type of benefits but only through other schemes? Is it fair that it is stricter for the others than for the politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5436	As I also said in my post, if you break the rules that exist, you can be charged with fraud in the ultimate sense. I think it's good that we have a strict practice of the legislation that concerns politicians. There is no reason for politicians to have lower penalties when they break the law than other people have. We have had more examples lately of politicians being both accused and sentenced to prison for violations of different legislation, and I think that is also important that politicians are not treated less than others. As far as the specific matter I referred to was concerned, the court considered that precisely because he was a politician, the punishment became more severe than it would otherwise have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5443	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5448	I just need to follow up on this a little bit. Yes, it is true that there are some things that have been raised, but there are others that are not. It is also about the matter that we dealt with last week in relation to the quarantine rules, where it is obvious that people, for example. create notional companies where there is no activity at all. The sanctions associated with this in the system are very weak, and it is quite unreasonable that there should be weaker penalties for this than for fault payments from Nav. It is also quite unreasonable when you go to Nav and get a message that you are responsible for getting involved in the legislation yourself, while when there are politicians who have such arrangements, you are told that it was the municipality that should have realized that this was wrong – because it is stated in the municipal law. It has to be equal. There shall be no difference between Jørgen Hatter and King Solomon. That is what this proposal is all about, and I expect the Storting to believe it. We're elected. So we've been chosen by people, and then we can't make arrangements for seas that both function milder, have lighter penalties, and that have more hazy arrangements and less strict follow-up than what we have for other people in this country who are in a similar situation, i.e. they no longer have the income they once had. I look forward to these changes, and I hope for a slightly greater commitment from my co-representatives and perhaps also from the presidency, who have chosen not to have any views on this. I think it's quite eye-catching that you don't have any principal views on such fundamental issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5459	When I hired, I said that it is obvious that all the laws and regulations relating to each job are well informed and easy to follow. I think maybe that's where we're going to start. We're going to start by making sure that it's easy to follow up, either Jørgen Hatter or so-called King Solomon. I totally agree that there should be equality for the law. That's perfectly obvious, and we're always going to strive for that. But I also mean that in this case it is made as if there are weaker sanctions, and that it is absolutely read and agreed. I mean, that representation is not right. Since several aspects of the proposal have already been identified in the law, we do not see the need for further changes right now. But as I said, of course, we should strive to ensure that laws and rules are both simple to follow, and that there should be good control mechanisms. The relevant parts of the legislation that apply to the remuneration of politicians are sufficient to ensure proper payments, and there are also good control mechanisms. However, as the Prime Minister's office has stated, they have said that this should have been clearer in the manual for political leadership and in the form for applying for retirement benefits. It is obvious that someone should intervene, and there will be something to be grasped, and it is stated from the Prime Minister's office that a person wants to look at this. We welcome the initiative of the Committee, that the Agency would like to have this clarified. It's important. In conclusion, I would like to say that when it comes to unfair payment in general, we must not make it seem that these payments are possible without being followed up as a criminal case. It is quite obvious that in those cases where there is an unfair payment, it should not be possible to make a rich account of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5473	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5478	What the rapporteur is now discussing is proposals that were voted down in the Stortingen last week, asking that the control mechanisms for these schemes be the same as for others, i.e. added to Nav. We believe that there should be an infringement fee on the post-paid scheme, and that you have to pay back compensation you have been unfairly paid. This is not the case today. It doesn't guarantee it. It is quite a long way to go before there is a level playing field in this legislation, and I sincerely hope that a majority of these samples will be set down to see it – and that it will not be like the pay back system, putting retired politicians into a system to control other retired politicians. It's control that's going on. It might not be like this on Nav – that you put others who have been on Nav before, to sit and control the decisions. Of course, it should be entirely independent bodies that carry out the checks and not the media that are to reveal these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5485	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5502	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5509	This is not the first time we are discussing the Nesna study site in this room, but most often it has been under the direction of the Education and Research Committee. Today, there is no study offer to decide on, but the disposal of the buildings. In this proposal for a representative, the proposers ask that the Nord University premises at Nesna be made available for new activity in the extension of the government dialogue with local and regional actors for new uses related to the innovation, research or education sector. Furthermore, the proposers ask the Stortinget to ensure that the government raises questions about rental conditions with competing uses and the potential disposal of the building stock currently rented by the Nord University, for a two-year period, in order to allow time to complete the ongoing conversion work. The Committee refers in its recommendation to letters from the Council of State of 23 March 2020 stating that Campus Nesna is State owned and managed by State Building. The premises are released as a consequence of the decision of Nord University to terminate Nesna as a place of study from August 2020. State buildings have been entrusted with the task of examining whether there is a different state need for the property. If this is not the case, the property shall normally be sold in line with instructions on the disposal of state real estate. The Council of State states in its letter that since the Nesna premises are not to be moved until August 2022, it should be time to consider any new state functions that can be assigned to the premises. The Committee's position is promoted by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which calls for decisions to be taken by the Stortinget in line with the requests of the proposers. I expect that the respective parties will explain their positions. From the Right, I would like to stress that we hope that, in cooperation with the North University, the County Municipality and other actors, both private and public, Nesna will cope with the transformation that the community is now facing. The need for good educational opportunities and skills building is as important in Helgeland as in other parts of the country. I hope that you will be able to find new opportunities and models for it locally. I have noticed that the Workers' Party's comments from the municipal fraction do not agree with the conclusion the fraction draws after the matter has been given an opinion in their educational fraction. If the Labour Party here rides two horses, or if there is an attempt at a new educational policy rematch, the debate will hopefully show.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5528	I welcome the case rapporteur, Tveiten Benestad, who said that we should never have been in the comment she referred to, which is from the majority. It's just a glitch, and I'm gonna have to put that on my coat. Then it has been properly corrected. I would now like to refer to what is on page 3 of the vote, where the members of the Municipal and Administrative Committee of the Workers' Party explain the position of the Workers' Party. There you can, among other things: read that the Workers' Party was opposed to dropping teacher training at the North University of Campus Nesna, but we were discouraged – among others. by Tveiten Benestad – here in Stortinget. We have a sincere desire to strengthen and develop both the Nesna community and the region. We will also stress the importance of State authorities not restricting the future use of premises to state-only needs and thus undermining the ability of local and regional authorities to convert the community of Nesna and the surrounding region. That is why we will also support the proposals made by the Central Party and the Socialist Left in this matter. That's what's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5537	So state buildings have sent a cancellation of the rental contract for Nord University's rented premises at Nesna. The background to the termination is that the Board of Directors of Nord universitet has decided to terminate Nesna as a place of study from 2022, a decision that is highly controversial locally, regionally and nationally both within and outside the education sector. At Nesna, the matter of cancellation was received with great disappointment. The centre party believes that the community is faced with a difficult situation following the closure of a central knowledge institution, with the consequences it has for the settlement, employment and activity of the community. Not least, it has major consequences far beyond the locals. The Central Party believes, like most municipalities and county municipalities, that there is a need for higher education in Helgeland in the future, and that that is a great need. There is reason to recall that the 2016 merger agreement promised growth and development for the place of study Nesna. The central party believes that the terms of the merger agreement and the agreements concluded still have to apply to Nord University, but we note that our warnings that it was not worth the paper on which it was written have unfortunately become reality. Locally, state buildings do not sell the building stock but continue their ownership, preferably with new tenants from the education and research sectors. Helgelands Blad reported in February 2020 that the municipality of Nesna, the municipality of Nordland and other actors are working to gain new activity in the buildings when Nord University is now running out of activity. This dialogue is also the ministry involved. It is therefore not unreasonable for the government to ask for the Nord University premises at Nesna to be made available for new activity in the extension of the dialogue with the government, among others. local and regional actors on new uses related to the innovation, research or education sector. On the contrary, it would show that the Stortinget takes the need for education seriously. Such processes also take as well known time. It is therefore natural, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that the government should ensure that issues relating to rental conditions with competitive use and potential disposal of the building stock that Nord University currently leases at Nesna are raised for a two-year period in order to give time to complete the ongoing conversion work and thus provide security. The picture drawn by the government parties in the setting that there was a failed candidate base alone that allowed the activities of Nesna to go from campus-based education to collective education is not correct. There has been a desire on the part of a large majority in Stortinget to give more opportunities to complete and start higher education, even when you are in regular work. Of course, the former college has followed up, and it is therefore high cost to read now that it will be used against them. The training of teachers, kindergarten teachers and nurses is essential for the well-being of municipalities both in Helgeland and in the rest of the country and for the education of the population that equips them for the future. The centre party therefore takes education close to people throughout the country seriously, including at Nesna. With that, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5556	The proposals are, in fact, the committee's recommendation, so there is no proposal to address. But it doesn't matter. The recommendation is, at least, appropriately recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5561	That should be the majority in the Chamber, too. What do we know about both the time we're living in now and what's coming? It is that more education is needed throughout the country, and that it must be possible to take training in many more places, up throughout your life — even while you are at work. That's why it's so devastating when places like Nesna are laid down, in an area where there's a screaming need for the education that's going on in this institution. The representative of the Central Party, Willfred Nordlund, said that there is a need for many more decentralised and flexible services, but when it is used as an argument for setting up a well-functioning place of study for which there is a need, it is scary for educational institutions beyond the country to develop such services. It's also a contradiction to what we need. We need a lot more of this, and it shouldn't be used as a threat that if you're doing this, you might be shut down. That's what can happen now. In my county, Hedmark, and I get to bring Uppland, too, there's a screaming need for more decentralised education, and I encourage as much as I can the College of the Inland to run with it and get good at it. But this is a scare shot everywhere – if that's how it's going to work. It's all wrong to make this decision, and then at least you don't have to make the mistake of disposing of this building mass, which can and should be a starting point to ensure better and more education in this area, which needs it. The main part might come from the area you're in, but it's also like a lot of people might think of going to the offer on, for example. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I really encourage the majority of people to join the committee and vote in favour of these proposals and ensure that this possibility is not removed – also because, as was said, the county council, the state, the municipality and other actors are now in the process of trying to find good ways to use it in the future, where education is a major part of it. Finally, there have been many mergers in the higher education sector. When you make agreements where, in order to join a merger, growth and development are promised in a place of study and it is not realized in retrospect, I think it is also an important lesson for those who think about it in the future. I and SV believe that we need a more decentralised structure in the future, and that we should not centralize everything, as the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5578	Unlike some of the last speakers, the background to this case is that Nord universitet has decided to complete the Nesna campus itself as a place of study from August 2022. It is understandable that the closure of the Nesna study offer has major consequences for the region. For this reason, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs has asked State Building to investigate the possibility of other state use of the premises, so that we can maintain the activity in the area. If there is no other State need, the property shall be sold. Today, the property is managed by Statsbyggen, and Nord University pays rent in line with the principles of the state rental scheme. The lease between Nord universitet and Statsbyggen regulates the sharing of responsibilities between the user and the administrator, including the amortisation of government investment in the property. Thus, the state rental scheme is not a traditional rental relationship between two different parties, but a system that allocates responsibility internally in the country. It's an inter-state relationship. On the assumption that Nord University will not use the premises at Nesna from the autumn of 2022, as the university itself has decided, I think it is a better solution that the premises are used by another state enterprise or sold. It's little rational for the university to pay rent at idle by 2029 for premises that are not in use. In the case of sales, local and regional actors will have the full opportunity to live on the property. If the Nordic University comes to a new decision, on the continued use of the Nesna campus after August 2022, there will now be no obstacle to further rental of the property.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5591	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5596	The fact that the majority of the population chose to drop teacher training at Nesna was a major blow to that community, with great consequences. The Labour Party believes that responsibility should be taken in such a situation to help the municipality over the knee. The local forces that are now working with new opportunities. One of the possibilities is to use today's building for education, research or new activity. This job is made much more difficult by the government’s insistence that it be used solely on the basis of government needs in those buildings, and it undermines the ability of local and regional authorities to convert the community into a region that needs decentralised education for teachers and nurses. My question to the Council of State is why he cannot help to give the community a fairly simple handshake by saying that local and regional initiatives should also be able to use the buildings and that the State should be able to facilitate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5601	It is not against me that local or regional actors are going into construction. They have the full potential to live on the property and develop activities in line with local needs. It is not the task of State Building to rent property on commercial terms to different actors. The task of state-building is to provide premises to meet the needs of the country. They should not be a regional development actor; we have other instruments in the state apparatus to contribute to it. We are absolutely attached to the fact that there will be activity at Nesna, and that there will be actors who want to contribute to the development of local and regional society, nothing is better than that, and it is fully possible to do so. So I guess it was the North University itself that decided to wind up the Nesna campus, I just want to straighten out the little fact in the agent's posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5607	I don't mean to school the Council of State, but I think maybe the Council of State should be aware that the merger agreement was approved by the King of the Council of State, that is, by this government, and that it is therefore a little special when the Council of State tries to hide behind the fact that it was Nord University that has now decided to shut down. The merger agreement clearly states that the Nesna campus should actually be developed, and that is what the government agreed to. Then I register that the Council of State now believes that the government cannot take responsibility when the board of Nord University does the opposite of what the government really meant. But on top of the other, which is really the question here — what kind of opportunities the room provides for future growth and new jobs and, not least, education. Is it the case that the Council of State believes that since State Building does not have the role to play in regional development, the Council of State is not willing to see if it is possible to give some guidance signals to State Building that one has to look at the possibility for purposes other than what is normally going on, that one actually uses the building mass for educational purposes, within a framework that makes it possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5614	After all, I must be responsible for State Building in relation to the framework laid down by the Stortinget for the activities of State Building. If the Stortinget now wants State Building to become a regional development actor, the Stortinget must decide it. This has not been done by the Storting – on the contrary. I think it's a little surprising that the representative doesn't know what the Storting itself has put out of the framework for State Building's activities. On the first question, what the Nesna and Nord University campus have decided, this is not within my constitutional responsibility. But it has to be so, at least it's so normal, that the Storting is very concerned that universities are just going to have the greatest possible degree of autonomy. And it does not seem that the Storting is so concerned about this matter. But as I said, it's not my constitutional responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5621	There is no doubt that the closure of Nesna has serious, negative ring-effects, which make it difficult for the area, which absolutely needs training in the future. And now the Council of State makes a point of the role of State Building in this matter, and that it is completely impossible. Then it might be interesting to hear if the Council of State believes that it would also have been a reasonable role for State Building to have in its portfolio that the large building mass that the state owns around the country could also have been used regional policy and district policy to help with it. Or can the Council of State point to the other means available to the State that it may be appropriate to use in such a community, where at least what is possible from the difficult situation they face?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5626	There are a number of instruments that may be involved in developing activity at a site such as Nesna. The county has regional development funds, there is an industrial fund in the municipalities, Innovation Norway has a wide range of instruments — so there are an absolute number of possibilities for developing activity. And I'd say it'll be an advantage if it's an activity that manages to stand on its own, that you don't depend on the state drifting it, but that it's an activity that has the right of life without state involvement over time. But the state has an instrument to help start new activity all over the country, there is no doubt about it, and of course it is also relevant to Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5631	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5638	The issue we are discussing today is taking place within a context where almost all the regions in Norway experience relocation and increasing shortages of professionals, not least teachers, nurses and engineers. This is now very noticeable in the districts, and it is urgent that the government take these challenges more seriously. It is not possible to waive responsibility by saying that State Building is not a regional actor and that universities are not regional actors. No, they're not, but the government has the overall responsibility. Higher education means a lot for regional development and growth, but so far the right-wing government has not focused enough on the possibilities and necessity of building strong, decentralised education in the regions, despite the growing shortage of professionals – not only in Helgeland and the Nordic countries, but in large parts of the country. The Workers' Party has gained an impact in Stortinget to ensure that higher education institutions actually focus more on their regional responsibilities than in the past. Yesterday we discussed the communication of competence in Stortinget. Now we in the Workers' Party expect the government to stagger, and follow, a new and more offensive course to ensure ordinary people throughout the country better offer of education. It needs both working life, community and individuals. So to the very thing: we were, as the representative Lauvås was in the house, against putting down teacher training at North University. We were voted down in Stortinget. We want to strengthen and further develop the Nesna community and the region, and we believe that the government should have a plan for this. Therefore, we have been very clear that Nord University premises at Nesna should neither be sold nor allowed to be gradually degraded or phased out, because it is important to facilitate the use of buildings for education, research, innovation or other new activities that benefit the region as such. We know that rapporteur Hanne Davidsen at Nesna is working around the clock to make Nesna change and live on. Regional and local authorities must receive State support in this work, not meet unnecessary barriers and barriers. That is why we in the Labour Party believe it is important that the government parties also see their responsibility for the future of Nesna. We also say that state buildings should await the sale of the buildings to 2022, until it is clear what is going to happen in connection with the conversion of the Nesna community. It is not quite the way in which case rapporteur Tveiten Benestad initially pointed out that this is not a study offer, because indirectly it can be about it. The premises are built for an important purpose, for higher education, innovation and research, and instead of selling and putting the hook on the door to that possibility, the government in dialogue with local and regional authorities should try to identify future opportunities for new growth in Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5653	I think that the contribution from the representative Sandberg shows part of the dilemmas and challenges in this case, by having two communication strategies on the part of the Workers' Party. On the one hand, one is willing to talk about regional development, how important universities are, their free position in higher education, and one is behind the law we dealt with in the previous period, where one very clearly states that after the structural reform, our universities and the governments we appoint to them have a special responsibility for regional development, the organisation of study offers and decentralised offers – we discussed yesterday in the Chamber a reform of competence that supports it. The government has shown it through its budgets that have been continuously strengthened, there have been direct contributions to just decentralised, online offers, and we have also strengthened strategically with study places, scholarships and other things that contribute to building the university and higher education sectors to the success that we now see it being today. What's incredibly important in all of this, in order to succeed, is that we take care of what's at the heart here: that they're allowed to evolve with the knowledge and the point skills they have. If we're going to sit here in Stortinget and take over the responsibilities of the board, we're going to be on a dangerous road. That's why I think it's really unfair for the Workers' Party to say that we were against going down, as if that was where the decision was made – that we in the Stortinget should take over the responsibility of the board. I hope that's not what the Workers' Party means, but they have deliberately chosen to be a little vague here. I think it's a pity that you choose to ride two horses, because the last thing about this case is the building mass on Nesna. The question must then be: what is it that we get the best possible activity in Helgeland and in the community at Nesna? I have had a meeting with the rapporteur, Hanne Davidsen, here on the Stortinget where, for example, she is. raised a new project with a national college at the University of Elevheimen, which is a building owned by the municipality itself. Of course, it is an interesting project that I am willing to follow up on in my work here in the Education Committee and on the Stortinget, and which, of course, we may have to follow up in further budgetary processes. But it just shows the core: it has to be local incited, it has to be local needs and local driving forces. Then it's not the question of whether State Building owns that building or not, which is the point. Nord University has made its decision. We can have our own debate on it – and we have had it in the past – but at the end of the day, the best thing to do is to put it out might be to raise some stakeholders out there who are willing to come to the Nesna community and invest in the community. When you have the project for the rapporteur at the top, we get regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5666	We want Nesna! The Central Party believes in education and population throughout the country. Yesterday, the Stortinget adopted a significant reform of competence. Today, the Center Party will keep light in the windows of a 100-year-old educational institution in Helgeland. The government and the Progress Party's policy for higher education is sad, and we should wish that North University would do it differently for Nesna. When this education hub is terminated as we know it, we need to make sure that those who burn for continuing educational activity there are given a chance. The termination of activities at Nesna by North University does not prevent other actors from concluding agreements with State Building. Here you can develop a new centre of knowledge and innovation and further cultivate the rich heritage of professional education that is there. The mass of wild game on the market may point to the local innovation. The community is put in limbo after their central knowledge institution has closed down. Locally, state buildings wish to continue their ownership and ensure new activity related to the education and research sector. Nesna municipality, Nordland county municipality and other actors work to get new activity in the buildings when Nord University goes away. Valuable infrastructure must remain capable of being used for the purpose for which it is built. The structural reform had the alibi of stronger units, but it does not help Helgeland and Nordland with their inhabitants who either want to study, have up-to-date teachers or other professionals when Nesna as a place of study is terminated. The centre party fears both quality and geographic access to right-hand education. We lack a review of quality drivers, the definition of the quality concept and the requirements that apply to professional environments. The central party believes that geography is a factor, and the Council of State should recognise that construction and infrastructure are also a factor. Nesna must not get the lights in the windows of its educational establishment turned off and darkened for good. State presence is crucial for the societal mission and ambitions we have for the knowledge nation of Norway, with education close to people throughout the country. Funding is driving structural changes, and the government must take responsibility for this. Decentralized offers are put under pressure. The centre party fears that the Nesna and the Sandness Lake are just the beginning, that what's happening there gets the precedent. The center party will Nesna, and the study site must have a new life without State Building escaping the place.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5687	In this case, we see a huge majority against the students at Nesna who demand to complete their education at Nesna. The representatives of the Storting from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party see no need to ensure that the students who are engaged in the Nesna study place continue their education there. The majority think it is right that the premises at the study site should be freed and sold. And this means that the promise to the students at Nesna is broken, they're forced to change the place of study. Students who were admitted in 2019 completed master’s education only in 2024. With this proposal for a representative, the Centre will secure the students’ educational pathways and have the premises ready for higher education, research and innovation in the future. The students at the Nesna campus have now taken a lawyer in the case, they require to complete the studies at Nesna, as they were promised upon admission. The Nesna municipality supports the students in the fight to complete where they started, at Nesna. It reports to Vice-President Kurt-Are Einmo of the Central Party. The struggle to maintain higher education at the Nesna and the Sandness Lake continues, and this fight is important. When Nord University, with the same number of large numbers in its back, decided to drop teacher training at Nesna, the search for teacher training at Helgeland went down by 40 pst. There was no call for kindergarten teacher training at all in Helgeland in 2020, and the search for nursing training has returned to Helgeland after the training of nurses in Lake Sandness. The centre party believes that 100 of the additional study places must be earmarked for primary school teacher training, kindergarten teacher training and nursing training at Nesna on Helgelandskysten. It is alarming that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation believes that the lease contract that Nord universitet now terminates is not legally binding. That undermines long-term agreements, and when the bulk of the population now accepts termination of the lease with State Building, the same majority at the same time accepts that promises given to the students at the Nesna university are broken. The choice of study location and place of study are related, and students at the Nesna study site are the most satisfied students at Nord universitet according to the results of the Study Barometer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5700	There is a alarming need for more opportunities for higher education very many places in the country. That means that the structure has to be more decentralised. I would remind the Council of State – whether it is not his constitutional responsibility – that it is the State that is responsible for higher education, and therefore what the State does in such matters as this becomes important for how this is to be done. The Council of State chooses to point to the county's regional funds when he says where it is possible to get money to go into such cooperation – I don't know if he meant to take over the buildings or what he really thought about. So there's money that this government has halved in its heyday, there's much less money there now. It's probably got into the crisis package a little bit, but it doesn't mean anything to such a big boost as this. I hear that there are now a lot of people who have understood that we need to get the study opportunities much closer to people – in a lot of areas and also combined with work in many places. I had a meeting with the study centers that runs a lot of the decentralised education around the country – I've been engaged in this since 1989, so I have some experience. However, they still struggle with the lack of government funding on the coordination functions needed to find out what kind of training is needed in the different regions, and what kind of training opportunities exist – to be able to combine it into premises where it is possible to run decentralised, and also on-the-job, education. Tomorrow we're going to deal with the local economy. There is a proposal that we have to provide state funding for the coordination functions around us so that we can ensure that both businesses, the public sector and people across the country have good access to the skills they need throughout their lives. It is a very important investment we can make, and it is very important instruments that we should put in place. We should make sure that the educational institutions we have do not centralise the places of study, because they are very good campers for those who are going to study full-time, and give the opportunity to facilitate those who are going to study with decentralised flexible studies and to have collective education. So it's very important that you don't break this structure even more than you've already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5710	If local communities are to be supported, which have undergone difficult transitions and are hit by centralisation, they must be willing to use policy instruments. When the Right is accusing the Labour Party of riding two horses at the same time in this case, it is because the Right Party has not realized that political governance must be used to develop the regions, including in higher education. The government itself keeps doing that. It has, among other things, focussed on universities focusing more on primary education, PhDs and world-leading research than on regional presence and decentralised education. It's the case of Nesna a very clear expression. The Government's letter of assignment to Nord universitet was quite a contributing factor in the closure of the Nesna study site. It was a hard blow for Nesna, but also for the whole region. We are in a time when the importance of decentralised education is becoming more evident to most, not least in Helgeland, where more teachers and nurses are needed, even though the Nesna study place is being laid down. For a hard-tested community, it is now felt as if the government were helping to put chains in the wheels of the community. This is because the government is not now showing a clear willingness for local and regional initiatives to use the buildings that are there and because it is so clearly pointed out that state buildings must operate on a commercial basis, i.e. sell at the highest price possible. I understand the rationale of the Council of State, but what you have to take in is this: when the state sells expensively, it is the community that has to pay the price. We have other instruments for regional development, said the State Council of Astrup here at the turn of the line. The representative Gudmundsen from the Right asked what it was going to do to get new activity, and signaled a sort of optimism. That's fine, but I want to ask the government parties the following questions when talking about other instruments: What other means has the government used to support the Nesna community to facilitate other education, research or new activity at Nesna? The answer to that question is no other means, for the time being. What is at the heart of this matter, and which is left in many other issues we see in the community affected by the centralisation of migration, is that one has to ask the question: when the consequences of a single centralisation and conversion have as great an impact on the community as it has on Nesna – what responsibility does the government have at the overall level, over the individual actors, directorates, agencies or institutions? The government will let it go — the Labour Party believes that we need to use tools to support these communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5727	I also believe in education and training opportunities in all parts of the country, but it is not up to this committee area either to set up or to close university studies, which can sometimes get the impression in this debate. The representatives of the Workers' Party in the Committee note that they have ‘explained that university premises should neither be sold nor allowed to be gradually degraded or phased out’. It is, as I see it, a truth with great modifications, as the Workers' Party has had at least two different views in this case setting. The right is also concerned that Nesna will succeed in the transition and that the Nesna community and region will have good development opportunities. But as long as the buildings are state owned and managed by state buildings, and they do not find that there is another state need for the premises, we naturally find that a follow-up to the usual procedure related to the disposal of state property. Nor shall the buildings be moved until 2022. There should be some time for other actors to turn around. Neither Nord universitet nor Statsbyggen are worthy of financing an empty building. Having said that, I hope, as I also said in my first post, that the Nesna community, together with the educational actors, the business and the labour market and others in the public sector, will find good new models that can ensure the necessary skills and educational opportunities in the future. But we do not solve the educational policy challenges by asking State Building to sit on an empty building, at the cost it has, or go beyond its mandate. I hope that the opposition will also take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5740	I made an attempt to draw myself as the last recorded speaker, but the representative Nordlund had different thoughts. Let me first thank you for the debate. I signed because I received a call from the representative Mossleth relating to this with a legally binding agreement. My vision is clear. This is an intergovernmental matter. I also believe that it is an expression of lack of care for the students to believe that Nord University will sit and pay rent until 2029 for a construction they have not intended to use. It must then be better for the State to either look at alternative government needs, or for local or regional actors to have the opportunity to take over the building mass and fill it with activity, activity for which the municipality and the region themselves believe they are well served to facilitate. It is then fully possible to use the many innovation instruments owned by the State, but it is important for the final result that the municipalities themselves have an idea of how they intend to exploit the potential of this property, and that the state does not impose solutions on one. The fact that the instrument does not exist is incorrect. That instrument is comprehensive and accessible to Nesna. I think it's a little old-fashioned and looking back at that approach to new activity, that you have to have the state as the owner of the building in order for it to be successful new activity in a building. I believe that is incorrect. I also remember the debate on Union in Skien in 2005. Then there were many politicians, including from my own party, who went out and managed to say that now the state had to take over, because Norwegian forest was going to lay down on the Union. Today there are more jobs on the Union in the Ski than it was at the time. There are over 50 businesses there. The island is a similar example. Hydro was going to lay down. What has come to it? Yes, a completely different environment. It is possible to imagine filling these types of premises with activities that benefit the community without Nord University being involved in it. I think that we, as politicians, must also be somewhat forward-looking and optimistic on behalf of the municipalities. Then, of course, we're going to help the municipality in all the ways we can through the tools that exist in different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5753	It was not my intention to make the Council of State feel lost. The reason why I took the floor again – too much has already been said – is that the problem with some of the answers given by the Council of State here, both in the change of lines and in so far as in his posts, as well as the representative Tveiten Benestad, in so far as the view of the Right was at issue, is that there is a strategic need to put in place a real education offer in research and innovation also for the future of this region. Here we have a building that is built for the purpose, a so-called purpose building, which is therefore clear. At the same time, it is considered that if new state activities are not to be found — in this context, it must be close to believing that there is another university, if one is to continue the ordinary activities and not least meet the need for education — it is almost sold to the highest bidder. Then we lose the political means of using the building mass that lies there, just to create new activity in innovation, education and what is called the knowledge society. I'm sorry about the Center Party. We believe that this building should be used for this. We think that although today it is not by definition within the purpose of state-building to ensure this regional development, there would be nothing in the way that the government could be open to assess it in the future. I record that you're trying to partly give the impression that you are, while you say that you're not. It worries me. It could perhaps be useful if more than just the Council of State were present in this debate, since his constitutional responsibility is only about the building mass. But it has to be said in the context of this case, taken together with what concerns the overall picture, that there is a great need to ensure that there are enough teachers, kindergarten teachers and nurses in the future, both in this region, in the rest of the country and in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5762	The clarification of the Council of State makes it necessary for me to take the floor again. He explains that international agreements are not binding, and I think it is very worrying to give the impression that when state actors conclude agreements, it cannot be expected that these agreements will last for a very long time. It is also the case that Nord University receives special rent compensation from the department to cover the cost of rent, and I believe that there is reason to ask questions about what Nord University will earn by cancelling the rental agreement with Statsbyggen, unless it is intended that Nord University will continue to receive rent compensation after the rent agreement has been terminated. It could have been nice with a last word from the Council of State to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5771	When I have heard the debate, I am left with the impression that there is no decentralised study offer for the people of Helgeland. But that's not exactly right. We can have a long and principled debate on the law of higher education and the framework that it has set for the sector, the decision-making authority of the board, and how they organise their operations within the approvals that the independent body NOCUT gives them, in order to be able to conduct good, high-quality education. But it's once that the board has chosen to organize its study activities on campus Mo in Rana. That's about. one hour's drive from Nesna. I have personally been critical of the decisions taken by the board of directors relating to the place of study Nesna, all the time we had a structural process a short time ago, but we must also reflect on the following: What will it include if we assume the responsibilities of the board? That is really what I think this matter is about. Then we move on a very dangerous path, where we simply take over the assessment competence that the board is set to manage on behalf of all of us, where they are to ensure that it operates within the NOCUT quality criteria and international agreements for study quality and follow-up. I think that is extremely demanding to handle in this room, and that is exactly why we have these boards that have been given this responsibility. I think it's very important that we discuss how we can ensure good decentralised education. As I was in my first post: it has been arranged by the government and in our budgets, and that's exactly why we have had a growth in the number of study places, and that we have had a strengthening of the decentralised study offer, also in Helgeland. I think it's worth bringing with me, even though this debate is primarily about what this building mass at Nesna should be used for when Nord University's government has decided not to have the activity you once had there. Then I want to sum up by actually repeating myself, but I think it's important that you put this out to others now, so you get to check out the possibility of new activity. It must be a good thing for the community of Nesna and Helgeland. Then we need to follow up on the opportunities to further strengthen higher-level education provision in the Nordic countries, Helgeland, North Norway, yes, for the whole of Norway – because it's just about how we're going to meet the future. I believe that we have good statistics and have provided very solid statistics. Then, of course, as many people here, I hope that we will have an activity that will help raise the community on Nesna and the whole of Helgeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5782	The representative Wilfred Nordlund has spoken twice earlier and gets a word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5787	I thought I was finished, but I record that the representative Gudmundsen has been in a different debate than the undersigned, because the representative thought the debate was about the responsibility of the board. But the debate is therefore about how to facilitate the use of the building mass, as the representative had so far been involved in his final installation. But the point and the other thing that made me take the floor was that the representative must be misinformed. So it's the way that through the degradation that Nord University has done of the student environment both at Nesna and in Lake Sandness, and the closure of the IT training at Mo i Rana, which the representative had in mind, which is contrary to the merger agreement and the local and regional expectations, the result is at least that the student population in Helgeland is halved. If the decentralised study offer is the same as a strengthening, at least I and the representative Gudmundsen live in different worlds.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5794	I had to make sure I got the last post. I had to wait until the representative Nordlund had spent his speaking time, not risking that I would end up in the same situation as before. [[Laughter]] But that's not why I drew myself, it's because I got a challenge from the representative Mossleth, who said this with rent compensation. She is, of course, right in it, but I still think the point stands. What the representative is calling for is that we should ensure that the building is empty by 2029, and ensure that we spend money on it. The alternative is that the building is filled with other activity, and that we get money into the treasury, but the representative prefers an empty building that creates zero activity on Nesna until 2029, and that we're going to spend the taxpayers' money on keeping a building standing empty. I think it represents a very poor solution, but it is possible that the representative assesses it differently. How it's going to contribute to activity, new jobs and moving to Nesna that this beautiful building is going to be empty is a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5801	It is tempting to say that I drew myself just so that the Council of State would not have the pleasure of being the last speaker. I thought I could have the pleasure of it, but see that the representative Siv Mossleth has drawn himself again and taken away the joy that I wanted to take away from the Council of State. I guess that's what you call an evil circle. [[Laughter]] First of all, as the representative of Nordlund also said, this case is not about the responsibility of the board of higher education institutions – it's about the management of the buildings on Nesna. To discuss governance: The government has given a direction for higher education institutions, and the Workers' Party will adjust that course towards more regional presence and more decentralised education. In the end, I just want to say two things: it's shown here, from among other things. the rapporteur-general, to what is the usual procedure in similar cases. Well, the challenge for very many district communities in recent years is that when the big community follows the usual procedure, when you let every different institution, actor or agency or every different directorate run their own conversion processes without very clear governance signals from the state level, from the government, the consequence is in far too many cases that you lose jobs, and that you are left without support, or at least with minimal support, from the big community. That's what the community at Nesna is afraid of now, and as many other communities, not least in North Norway, have experienced. That is why the Labour Party believes that there is a need to rethink developments in the districts in order to counter centralisation, and that the status quo as a political instrument does not work, at least not in the north. Finally, my second point: I have noticed that the representatives of the government parties and not least the Council of State have said that there are other means of supporting regional development, and that – I paraphrase the Council of State and the Right-Representatives – one must have some optimism in order for a new activity to come, and that local, regional or state actors can come and contribute to new jobs or value creation at Nesna. I would encourage the government parties to follow up on those words and do what has not yet been done – to put into practice the concept of ‘other instruments’ to secure jobs in Nesna and to ensure decentralised education and training in addition to new value creation. I want to say that we're going to follow it up and remind the government parties of exactly those words in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5816	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute. Then the president carefully reminds us that there is a beautiful summer field in Oslo today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5824	We are not going to have any empty building at the Nesna study site. Thousands of teachers are needed in this country, and thousands of nurses are needed. Many of these are needed in Northern Ireland, on the Helgeland coast, yes, throughout Helgeland. We want to avoid the situation that we're now seeing, where the number of applicants goes down. We want to avoid situations where people out in the parishes, in the municipalities of the Nordic countries, do not have access to teachers and nurses. The alternative in this case is not the false dilemma of the construction being empty. We will fill it with students and with the future for Helgeland and Nordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5831	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-16.ana.ud39e5846	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
