ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e34	From the Prime Minister's office there is a letter to Stortinget, dated 26 May 2020, on the temporary board of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. Having regard to the Royal Resolution, the following information shall be disclosed: ‘The City Council of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad shall end parental leave from 1 June 2020 until 21 August 2020. Group leader Ida Lindtveit Røse is constituted as State Council and takes over the Board of the Ministry of Children and the Family during the period when Councillor Kjell Ingolf Ropstad will liquidate parental leave.» The President proposed that the letter be annexed to the minutes and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e58	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Knut Arild Hareide and Henrik Asheim for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e67	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. Ten weeks have passed since the Stortinget took many decisions, and one of them was to give them a little bit more breathing space in a difficult situation. The size ensured that the state compensates for the next 18 days after the first 3 of the period of leave. It was a way of contributing to social justice when Norway shut down. So we know that many of these have ended up in a very vulnerable situation. They don't get paid money, but the bills for rent, kindergarten and electricity continue to come. Nav, who has been weakened for several years, through ABE-cuts, etc., works with different technical solutions. The employees are working on blasts, but they are under a lot of pressure, and the solution is waiting. Yesterday I spoke with the rapporteur in the West Toten. In Raufoss, where there is industry, it's up to 1,200 now out of work. The rapporteur can tell that many of them have been licensed from the industry where they now live from hand to mouth. They have no savings to take off, and several of them can't afford food and must get help from the Salvation Army. There is a rather dramatic development in Norway in a few weeks. No one expected the payment to be made on the same day the scheme was put in place. I think the Storting was aware of that. But it's been ten weeks now. Various technical solutions have been tried – to go back to what could have been the starting point, namely that the company, who knows who is employed, automatically reports when there are permits. Now it's on Nav's websites, and I checked it in the morning hours today, that the system should be in place in mid-June. The question is then: can the Council of State guarantee that this scheme will be in place in mid-June? And when it's in place, is the money coming? Responsible for Nav in the region that I spoke to yesterday, they don't expect to be up-to-date until autumn – in September, October. So one thing is that payments start, but do they reach those who are now waiting for this money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e84	We're in a very, very serious crisis. Over a few months, we've been getting up in about 450,000 lay-offs. This has no parallel in peacetime. This is not the financial crisis, it is not the oil price drop, it is not the employment crisis at the beginning of the 1990s – this increase in so little time has no parallel. The Nav system has been tested to the limit. We started off with 200 million. kr. Then we've proposed 700 million. kr to – i.e. almost one billion more to Nav. We have set everything else aside to deal with the development of new schemes and the daily allowance. It's a very serious situation for a lot of people who are just waiting for their money. The representative Gahr Støre points to two slightly different solutions. One is the daily allowance. Nav has sixfold the treatment capacity, but over a week in March, hundreds of applications for daily pay were received more than in a normal situation. That's where Nav expects to be up-to-date at the end of July. With regard to the pay compensation scheme, we have chosen to make the choices that we have been constantly informed of have been the simplest, and that should be put in place as soon as possible, but it will not be in place until the first half of June, as Nav refers to. Then it is that when the scheme is in place and the employer reports the relevant figures, payments will take a short time, a few days. Then a separate system is set up to ensure that employers who do not register are reminded, and to ensure that employees can apply on their own if the employer fails. Finally, I would like to point out that although the government and I take responsibility in this crisis, it was also important for us to communicate clearly to Stortinget on the first weekend that Nav was under a strong pressure. That is why we communicated, inter alia: to the Workers' Party that these schemes would not be put in place in a short time, but that it would take several months. But we have now delivered faster on most of them than we thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e97	I don't have to be taught that there was an extraordinary situation. Governments use it in a description here. The size has been in an exceptional situation over several months. We've been working, making decisions, making the arrangements fairer, changing the way the government came along, so it should reach more people with a better social profile. We were also aware that Nav would be tested. I think it is worth remembering that during these years the Nav, the Public Health Institute and the Labour Inspectorate have been weakened. They have not been robust enough to withstand such a situation, even as extraordinary as it has been. I have no reason to doubt that those who work in Nav are doing their best and stretching, but the question is, for other schemes, technical solutions have been quickly developed. The compensation scheme for enterprises is made through an application based on trust. It seems it's started. I don't imagine that you can use such a scheme automatically to those who are on leave and are going to have a salary subsidy, but I would like to say that you are now back where you could start, that is, to use the company overview, which they otherwise report when people are going to have sick pay and commission money. Why didn't you choose the solution, which was the simplest one, and which was by hand, from the beginning?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e106	We chose the solution we chose because, with the information we had then, what was said to be the simplest solution, the one that would get in place as quickly as possible. There has been one single priority for us and the government all the way, and it is, in an extreme crisis situation where Nav is being tested to the limit, where we know that the waiting time is going to be too long for too many people, to put in place as many solutions as possible. Because there has been an extreme situation, we have also had to make emergency solutions, for example. disposal arrangements for daily allowances, which were put in place in a simple manner already on 30 March. I disagree that Nav is less well equipped to meet this because of government policy. Among other things, through 4 billion. available for ICT investment in the modernisation programme, Nav has had the opportunity to develop solutions in weeks or months, on which they would normally spend six months, one year or more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e113	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e118	The situation for those who stand there and don't get the money is still talking. I want to ask another question. Recently the NHO reported that as many as four out of ten of their member companies believe they do not have the money to pay holiday money. This applies to ordinary people who are in companies and who are not on leave, not in trouble, but also to others. Holiday pay is deferred, it's employees' money, it's a right that each person has earned. I have heard the Council propose that people in this situation may choose to postpone the holiday or demand that the company go bankrupt, because it is a payment obligation that is not met. It's a very bad solution for both businesses and people this is about. I would like to ask the Council of State: can he explain what is now being done by the government, in dialogue with the business community, the NHO and the companies, to ensure that Norwegian workers are not without income they depend on when summer comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e127	Firstly, I have never said that it is okay for an enterprise to use the employee's holiday money and then sit down and negotiate a deferred holiday. There's no connection. I have pointed out – after dialogue with the parties – that an opportunity in today's law is that you also have a conversation about when the holiday is taken out. That's an opportunity. But that's how the holiday money is the employee's money. It's not the property of the companies. The company cannot use them, scalp them and choose with them as they please. In the short term, this is simply about the company’s ability to make progress. Then we have pointed to the loan arrangement where the state takes 90 pst. of the risk to which you must go if you are struggling to pay out the obligations you have to the employees. The employees also have a legal right to demand their money in the ultimate instance through the bankruptcy of the company. I think we also need to look at what we're going to do in the future, for example. the proposal to have a separate holiday money account. I also think there might be reason to see if there is any need to change the government pay guarantee scheme in order to take account of the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e136	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e141	My last question concerns what we can do to get the card down the road from leave to work. The fact that many are on leave gives hope that it is possible to come back to their place of work, but the arrangements may be designed to take time, and that there is no reason to really contribute to it. One of the proposals that have been made is whether to distort the schemes so that it is an element of wage subsidies, where companies receive a subsidy to take people back to work before turnover is up, use the time for training, spend the time on work that the company needs to do to get its turnover up, collect the payments, and pay the tax. The LO has proposed a model, the NHO has proposed a model. I know this is being discussed. Can the Council of State provide an assessment of this? Is this an arrangement the government will go in for? And if it will, when does the government propose to use wage subsidies as part of this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e151	What we see now is a crisis in the private sector. That means that the fundamental thing here is that we have to have profitable businesses that can provide profitable jobs. That's point one. I also believe that it is absolutely essential that we do not interfere with the legislation on permitting, but that the legislation on permitting should be in place. Both I and other representatives of the government have said that considering looking at a pay subsidy scheme in a transitional phase, we will do that. There are arguments for that. It is also difficult to establish a system which does not receive unfair discrimination. But nevertheless, in an extreme crisis situation that we are in now, it can be arguments to look at the kind of solutions that we normally wouldn't have had. Then the government has presented both a revised budget and also announced a larger proposition on phase 3 which comes in the month-end of May/June. The government's policy for this phase will be presented and described.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e160	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e165	I would like to return to the answer given by the Council of State to the representative Gahr Støre that those who are now waiting for their salary to be paid are almost without a monthly salary that they have not received. Today, employers report income to the so-called ‘a’ scheme. It's going to happen every month. The information used by the House Bank and the Loan Fund for the payments they make. And Nav's using them to pay parental leave, disability benefit, sick pay and a day's allowance. Sickness benefit is limited to 6G, just as the allowance should be. What is in the scheme that makes it impossible to use automated schemes, but has to return to a scheme where each enterprise has to sit and pay the wages of each employee? Is the scheme that bad? And then it's pretty scary that day money and other things are paid out based on that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e170	That's a very good question. Because – also as an advocacy to the representative Gahr Støre asked about – the first arrangement, which I have also said publicly, as we were both presented by Nav, and which seemed to be a system that was the fastest, which would come into place as soon as possible, was just connected to the A-system. Also then there was a development work that would go in a very short time, without investigations, without having tested and checked out solutions, because things were going to be in place quickly. So it turned out, when Nav went into this, also with his programmers and ICT people, that the a-system would give too many unpreachable payments. In other words, a lot of people would be at risk of getting too little or too much, in the worst case, a refund claim. Then we had to create a new scheme, and it is the scheme that Nav is currently working on, which is based on the employer reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e177	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e182	Thanks for the answer, but it doesn't give a good answer to the basics. The system is in place, it's used by everyone else. Wages and salaries information from February is there. There is a scheme that already pays 6G in the case of sick pay, and yet the scheme cannot be used for the 18 days, but it is used for 52 weeks in the case of sick pay, etc. I think it is quite disturbing that this is not a better answer. Then my next question is 400 million. In the course of the last few years, has it helped us to have a robust hub to solve the kind of challenges we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e189	There are no budgets or alternative budgets that have been in this room, which would contribute to Nav having enough capacity without extra money, extra funds, extra resources to deal with an unemployment crisis that has no parallel in peacetime. Only in one week in March, there were hundreds of times more, with up to 30,000 applications per week. There's no parallel to that. Now Nav's got close to 1 billion. kr extra, or will get, to hire new people, but the most important thing for them in this context – or at least important – has been that they have invested heavily in ICT and modernisation of Nav. It has made Nav now have its own competence environment that is able to develop in weeks or months things that they would normally spend six months/one year on, maybe more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e196	Gisle Meininger Saudland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e201	The council was a little bit concerned about it earlier, but I still want to poke a little bit more away from this. We are now approaching June and vacation. It's pretty short time for people to take out vacations and get vacation money. In fact, many are at risk of not receiving holiday pay, precisely because the companies are in a deep economic crisis. There are also many viable enterprises. Employees are, as pointed out here, guaranteed holiday pay through the pay guarantee fund, but there will be a clearly little pleasant holiday if the employees do not have a job to go back to when the holiday is over. So how is the Council of State going to ensure that employees get the money that they are entitled to and that they have paid in the previous year?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e206	A lot of people, as the representative says, are now insecure, and not only on their vacation, on whether they have a job to get back to at all. This is because the Korona crisis has engulfed the Norwegian and international economies. It has given us a situation that has no parallel in peacetime. If you are a day-payer, you do not get paid holiday money when you go on a day-to-day basis. It has always been the legislation. There are no recent changes related to it. This means that those who are in a situation where they are unsure whether the company can pay holiday pay must be those who are back in work at the time. Then I believe that this is primarily about the company's ability to handle its expenses. There is no initial difference between holiday pay and pay and other activities. We have pointed to the loan arrangement, where the state takes 90 pst. the risks, as the short-term solution, but also all measures to help a private business and small and medium-sized enterprises are important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e213	I thank you for your answer. It is not about those who go on a day’s payroll, but about those who have a job, but where the company is in a difficult situation – because it is an extraordinary situation. The size, as I am well aware, has precisely adopted exceptional arrangements to avoid unemployment and to save viable businesses. But now we are in a situation where employees may have to bankrupt their own employer and their own job in order to get the money that they themselves are entitled to, which they themselves have paid in the previous year. Will the Council of State take a more active role than pointing to loan arrangements, and come back to the Storing with such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e223	I believe that it is not a good idea to make a completely new and completely separate arrangement that only goes on holiday money. This is because holiday pay is first of all the employee's right and property, but it also relates to how the company operates in general. And there are a lot of companies that are struggling, not least small and medium-sized enterprises. It's really about liquidity. And if you have done what you should not have done, namely, used or not able to pay the employee’s holiday money – even if you have to make it visible in the accounts, it is not a separate account – you must, for example, pay the employee’s holiday money. include loans in the new loan guarantee scheme, and then you can also get help from the other schemes we have set up to save the companies. Then I believe that in the long term – not in a year or two – we should consider whether to have a rule on a separate account. We also need to look at whether there is a need for changes in the pay guarantee scheme, either temporarily or permanently.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e230	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e235	There are several hundred thousand self-employed people in Norway. It's 150 000 who have it as their principal income. In March, Stortinget created a separate arrangement for hairdressers, taxi drivers and others – all who run a small shop, all who are self-employed. We decided that self-employed people would receive 80 pst. the loss of income after 16 days, in order to provide a security of personal income. To my great amazement Right-wing thinking has been unreasonably good for all the small entrepreneurs – those who dare to invest their own money and who have that uncertainty – and have then promoted their own proposition that is now to be dealt with, telling them to tighten up the system, that 80 p.m. is an excessive guarantee of income for all self-employed people around Norway. Why do Right and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen think it is wrong that we should help self-employed people the way we are now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e242	The proposition is about the exact opposite of what the representative now says. The reason why we need this proposition is because this is based on the Corona Law. The Korona Act expires on 27 May, if I don't remember wrong. If this arrangement is to continue, it must be governed by a separate law. It's because we're going to continue to promote our own proposition about it. It's true that in that proposition we suggest that the ministry can reduce the performance by regulation. It is not because we intend to do this now, or because self-employed people are not going to get the help they need now. It is because it has been foreseen, including on behalf of the Storting, that all of this should be temporary measures in a crisis situation. It also makes sense to be able to reduce compensation gradually if the crisis subsides and the need decreases, I think it makes sense. But that doesn't mean that the scheme is going to go away now, it's warned to last even beyond the harvest, and that doesn't mean there's plans to lower the level.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e249	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions. The President will invite the representatives to use the Anti-Bac stations at each interlocutory to ensure the best possible protection of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e256	Toril Evensen is a night receptionist at the Comfort Hotel in Flesland, Bergen. She was on leave on 12 March, like many others, and was to receive compensation for the first 20 days – almost a month's salary. Toril has still not received the money, and as most low-paid people, she does not have money on her book. In one case in the Free Trade Movement, she told me that she had to pick up food from the Salvation Army in order not to starve. I think it's too many workers who are in this situation, it's hard to see that they have to wait and wait for the money while the government has been very creative to make sure that the crisis packages for the companies came into place in a very short time. My question to the Council of State is: Did he, when he saw that the money would not come in May either, consider emergency solutions of the type to use Finance Norway and the banks, as he did for the companies, also for ordinary workers? And if the money doesn't come in June either – will he consider emergency solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e265	We've already set up emergency solutions. It is because it has been absolutely necessary, precisely because it – as the representative Lightbakken describes – for many people do not have a savings account to live off or money that is just there that you can use. It's about getting money now. For day care allowance, there is an advance plan where it has already been paid out about 3 billion. kr. As regards the evaluation of these first 3 to 20 days: when we found out in May that the scheme would be delayed, we still had to concentrate on getting it in place as quickly as possible. But it is clear that if something fails, we need to consider emergency solutions related to it as well. I just want to repeat that although it is the government and my responsibility to implement it, the Stortinget was duly informed – among other things. through the wording that the establishment of new income schemes would not be possible in the short term. So it's not like the Storting didn't get any information that any of this could take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e274	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e279	I do not say that either, but I ask if the government has assessed measures that could have made things faster. So now we're in a situation where people don't have food on the table. Then the government cannot be annoyed that they have questions about it. We're going to ask it as long as there's no answer, because there's a need for it to go even faster. But now I have heard that the Council of State will at least consider emergency solutions. That's good. Let me then ask about another thing in connection with this, because in the evening post today there is a big issue for workers who say that they have been asked to work free of charge during the leave. I will not ask the Council of State to go into the specific matter at Hankö, because I see that the Labour Inspectorate will do so, but the LO has previously reported fear that there is an abuse of the leave arrangements. We then know that, in such a situation, workers can be severely punished for social security fraud, while there are few examples of employers being punished for it. That is why we believe it is time for a change in the law that makes it more difficult for employers to abuse the scheme. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e286	I agree. At the summit on the crime of working life, which we had a few days ago, we announced a change in the law – or at least that it should be consulted – which also means that we will assess criminal provisions or reactions for those who violate the law on permitting. And let it just be clear as a general point: it's not allowed to permit the employees and then ask them to come back and do a job. If you call that job hard work, it's not good if there's a job related to the company. Once again, as a general point, it is also that if you, for example, is damaged while carrying out this permeation breach, it is not covered by the normal arrangements for workplace damage. It's the abuse of the permitting mechanisms, without me going into concrete issues, but that's the law, and that's clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e293	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e299	Today, the unemployed are discriminated against. Those who got out before the crisis get a little over 60 pst. of wages and salaries in cash. Those who got out after the crisis have 80 pst, up to 3G. Many of those who were outsourced before the crisis have low income and low formal education. There are people who can struggle to get a job again, and now the unemployment is supposed to get stuck on a historically high level for a long time. This means that many unemployed people have little to live for a long time in the future, not least among those who became unemployed before the crisis, who have become a kind of B-layer of less day money among the unemployed. We don't understand why we're going to discriminate people that way. They are unemployed in the same reality and in the same crisis. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that those who became unemployed before the crisis have less to live off than those who became unemployed as a result of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e304	I understand that for those who were unemployed before the coronary crisis, it may seem unreasonable. But I also understand what Stortinget thought when they decided to do so. What the Biggest has thought about, and to which the government has also agreed, is that in an exceptional situation exceptional measures are needed. It is then that several of the measures now in place have a starting date, and they will also have an end date — i.e. it will not be permanent measures. And yet for those who have been or have been unemployed before the coronary crisis, it has been absolutely necessary to make changes. For example, it would be pointless to send people back into a labour market in a confined Norway because the daily allowance period ended. That is why we have had to, and it has been important, extend the daily allowance period, so that people get the support they need until we have an almost normal labour market again.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e311	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e316	Red has also supported the fact that we have measures that are exceptional – of course – to deal with the crisis. But the important thing is that Coronal unemployment does not differ significantly and fundamentally from other unemployment, for most people who will be unemployed, will be it out of this year, probably. They live in the same reality, they have the same challenges in everyday life that the money does not go to – even worse for those who became unemployed before the crisis. The size has also wanted – and has stated at the beginning of the crisis management – that we should avoid an a-layer and a b-layer among the unemployed. It will be completely possible, if there is a majority for it, to correct that injustice by ensuring that you do not discriminate in this way. I wonder if the Council of State sees that this unfairness is no cause to persist, given that this crisis is continuing for a long time, and that they will be without work for a very long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e321	There is a factual reason in the sense that an extraordinary crisis occurs. In the event of normal economic crises, often at least, it is partly beyond our control what is behind them. The coronavirus is beyond our control, but the infectious diseases that have been introduced, which of course also affect and affect the Norwegian economy, have been politically determined and adopted. In my opinion, it is also reasonable to have exceptional measures. As I have mentioned, the government will come back with a proposition in the month change of May/June. There will also be an assessment of which measures should be continued and which measures should be stepped down, as it has always been necessary to step down temporary measures when the major or worst part of the disease protection crisis and the health crisis are over. So the representative gets to wait and see then, but I think what the Storting has decided, and that distinction, is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e326	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e331	My question is to Minister of Transport Knut Arild Hareide. The flight offer is for travellers in Alta, Kirkenes, Vardø, Ørsta, Volda, Sandane, Sandness Lake, Mo in Rana and many other places in the country as important as the bus and train are in and around the largest cities here in the East. Having good communication is about giving people freedom to get to and fro in a fast and efficient way, as well as that it is crucial for the companies that operate around the country, and that need the flexibility that the flight offer gives them. Today I had a round with the airlines, and it was of course a pleasure reading to see how many flights no longer go. Now when we're going to get back and open up, we're going to get the wheels started, and then it's incredibly important for business to get more routes and departures in place. The Progress Party has held digital meetings with companies all around the country, and the clear feedback from a lot of companies is that more flights need to be put in place and more capacity, for aircraft that are currently running are largely full, and it is difficult to get space. That is why the Progress Party is aware that this offer now needs to be increased. In addition, hospitals are once again starting to treat more patients. This means that more people are going to and from hospitals, but with a few departures and routes that are gone, it creates major challenges. And as we could read at Nok.no: Lillian Heitmann from Alta, who was going from Alta to Tromsø, had to spend six times as long as she usually does to get control of the hospital. The offer has been greatly reduced and direct routes have been closed. Patient travelers also say that the offer in Finnmark has become much worse than it was before. And if you get sick, the travel path is extra long, and it becomes extra strain. I wonder: Will the Council of State make sure that the state now contributes by buying more departures, so that more departures are put in place and capacity is increased throughout Norway to make travel easier for patients like Lillian, and not least for business around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e344	I agree with the description given by the representative of Hoksrud. We haven't had a major aviation crisis in a while. So it's 95 pst. decline, and of course it has done something about the offer. That is why, in good cooperation with the Stortinget, we have made good arrangements here. We then removed all charges related to aviation with direct effect. We've also had a minimum offer, and even though the decline is formidable in Norway too, we should be aware that Norway is one of the countries where one of the most recent flights in Europe. Onions is the company that flies most in Europe in the number of departures. So we've got a minimum offer. We also have a guarantee facility for the airlines of 6 billion. kr. The cooperation that has been between the Storting and the Government, I thought was very good. This system has hit very well, including the United States and Japan. for Norwegian, and the fact that we have airlines even when we get through the corona, is very important. Then the representative Hoksrud will take up whether we should now expand that offer. That's what we're working on, because we now want to get an increase in activity in line with the need that Hoksrud's representative points to. We want to get a bigger activity, and we also look at it. We have also taken action. The Stokmarknes-Bodø air route increased from 8 May due to patient needs. Alta-Tromsø air route will be strengthened from 1 June, precisely in the light of the need there. So we're working on increasing aviation activity, in close dialogue with the airlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e353	That's good, but even if we have the package that's there, we know that, among other things. Onkøe is the North Norway bus – it is like train, tram and T-Bahn in Oslo. In fact, if Onøe does not fly, there will be fewer passengers at airports where Norwegian and SAS fly, further between the East and e.g. North Norway. It's a huge challenge. We see, of course, a great commitment around Norwegian. It's very good, and we're very pleased that so far they have ridden by the storm. But we also need a great and strong commitment to the airline that in many ways is bus, train, tram and T-Bahn for an incredible number of people, and not least to the industry in the districts. How will the Council of State ensure that Onyøe survives what they are now in the middle of? In addition, this is the case with infectious diseases regulations, with demands for vacant seats next to it, and it affects Onøe very, very strongly in relation to others. I perceive that Onkøe then runs on money that is borrowed, and we don't know if they survive – we know that no one survives on red bottom lines – so I ask: Will there be a separate package adapted to Onkøe, as another company has got? And will you look at the rules of infection protection, which are quite extraordinary in Norway in relation to the rest of the world, in the aviation industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e362	Onions also get their own compensation, just linked to the production of the FOT routes. So it is that we have to evaluate the offer to North Norway and get the offer on the FOT routes up to go. That's part of the job that we have to focus on right now. Norway was first out with an infectious pathologist, and I think that was very good. I think that to get people to fly, they have to feel that it's safe to fly. There were no countries in the world that were earlier out than Norway, and that was also perhaps why we are relatively the country where one flies most in Europe right now. We are also well aware that, in the last week, EASA came up with what may be called a European Civil Protection Supervisor, and we are now in the process, in cooperation with the health authorities, of looking at a harmonisation related to the pathologist. But it must be the infectious agents that are at the forefront in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e371	There will be follow-up questions – first Morten Stordalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e377	In the east, Torp has only been transferred by Oslo airport Gardermoen in the number of passengers and activity. With its more than two million passengers per year, it is important not only for the region but also for the societal critical preparedness. The airport is part of the ambulance and donor standby and is important for the region’s fire preparedness in the case of fire aeroplanes. Torp Airport is also essential for Onderøe to be able to fly its commercial flights because they have their base just on Torp. I would quote from a request decision of 7 April this year: ‘The decision requests the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of April at the latest, to come back with a proposal to ensure the continued operation of non-governmental airports.’ In addition, Torp was specifically mentioned in this room. My question will then be: Does the Council of State think that it was difficult to understand the decision of the Storting, since the government failed to follow up the Storting's intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e389	This decision was followed up by the Stortinget. I want to say that even the non-state airports are very important, and we have come with our own packages linking to Avinor, so that the State Airports can be further driven. We followed this up, especially with a follow-up link to Haugesund, which is part of the minimum supply. Haugesund also has a 24 - hour standby for ambulance flights. Haugesund also has a special agreement because that Airport is owned by Avinor, but is operated privately. The allocation we have made to Haugesund was the basis for this, and it just shows that we had a follow-up to the call decision. I'm well aware of the situation on Torp. They drive very well at Torp, and we follow along with there. They also have a chance to come under the general arrangements provided for in this crisis situation. But we obviously follow the situation closely, and we look at measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e398	Bengt Rune Strifeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e403	In the northernmost parts of the country, airplanes are the only collective solution. There is neither tram nor train an alternative. In today's situation, when airlines are required to operate with reduced capacity due to infectious diseases regulations, there are few or no routes in the northernmost parts of the country that are commercially profitable. There are also too few routes to and from South Norway. All companies mention the lack of air services as the main challenge to keep the wheels running and secure jobs and value creation. A group of Troms and Finnmark states have asked, among other things: priority will be given to the flight offer to the parent aerodromes Kirkenes and Alta. The East-Finland Regional Council, the West-Finland Regional Council, the LO, the NHO and the Business Laws have addressed the matter with the Minister for Transport in their own letter dated 13 May. On the basis of the stated State Secretary Ingelin Noresjö to the NRK that the Council of State would look into the matter. Is the government ready to buy more air routes, such as the business community and a total of North Norway's demand? Could the Council of State explain the government’s reasons for not prioritizing Finnmark when the renewal of the agreements with the airlines on the purchase of services was concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e410	I can answer yes. We're looking at the possibility of buying more routes. We are well aware of the special situation of the Churches and Alta and the need for direct flights between Oslo and Alta and Oslo and the Churchnes. There's something we're considering on a continuous basis. We are very well aware that planes have a very special position in Norway. It's the collective network, not least in the northern part of our country, and it depends on us getting an increased activity on the air routes, and we're working on it now. As I can now also say to the representative Strifeldt: we also look at the pathologist, but I am very concerned that it should be safe to fly. I think it's safe to fly, is what makes people willing to fly. That must be the lead. So when it's up to the judge's decision, it's the health authorities that have the last and decisive word in that issue, and so it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e419	Siv Mossleth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e424	Now some of the measures that the Central Party has fought for are temporarily introduced by the Storting, for example. lower VAT, removal of air passenger charges and compensation for the purchase of routes. Nevertheless, it is red, red, red when I try to get hold of the flight tour Oslo–Brønnøsund. It's not an open-air plane. There are workers who spend two days getting to and from work in Finland, and as mentioned earlier, Lillian in 89 years spends six times as long getting to and from the hospital. So I think, is it acceptable that the sick and old and the business will wear off until the arrangements come into place? How long will it take? And will these arrangements, which the Central Party previously has the front, last in retrospect as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e431	I guess the situation we've been dealing with has been quite extraordinary. We're now working on getting into a more normal situation, and that's our goal. That is why we have expanded the supply of patient travel. That was one of the first things we did. Now we want to get a more normal operation. And we want to choose everyone at some point to have a vacation, and everything indicates that it has to happen in our own country. Then it is also important that we have a better offer for this. That's why we're now working on improving our supply. We have a close dialogue with the airlines about how we should do it. So I think it's important that we have that dialogue, because here, too, there will be good intrusions when demand increases. We've been willing to make a larger amount of purchases in this period, and we're also willing to do it in the future, but we'd like to get into a normal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e438	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e443	The picture behind the president is a picture of many of us who have been sitting on the Stortinget for many years, very happy, but there is one big defect: there are no Norwegian representatives on the picture, because they couldn't get from North Norway to Eidsvoll. The route was too long. I didn't think it would be possible that it could be the same problem in 2020. We in the Center Party are accused of romanticizing old days very often, especially by the government party Right, but precisely that piece we're not romanticizing. After all, we experience that when we are to have alternate representatives from Finnmark, it is difficult to get them down. When we're going to have trustees from Finnmark, it's hard to get them to meet, because there's no flight offer. Yesterday it was a sad day for transport policy in North Norway. The government parties and the Workers' Party voted no to the North Norway Railway, an unwise decision in a great vision. Hareide State Council replied to Hurtigruten that no, the government – the Norwegian government – does not want to give an extra crown to Hurtigruten in the crisis that the company is currently in. The Hurtigruten is a company we've had in Norway for 127 years. Longer than Norway has been a free country, we have had the Hurtigruten. Now they got a breakdown that made that 95 pst. of all its activity was lost overnight, and it was not possible for the company to plan for the crisis they are in. All of us who know Norway know how important the Hurtigruten is to tie the coast together. So, on the one hand, there has been a crisis in aviation, where you do not have a good enough route from North Norway to the East that binds Norway together. On the other hand, we now notice that the government has no vision for a new railway operation in the north. And then you don't want to give a penny to Hurtigruten, but for example. The tax-free on the Gardermo, which everyone knows will survive, gets millions. Why does the Council of State not want the Hareide and the Right and the Christian People's Party and the Left to help the Hurtigruten in the crisis they are in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e456	I would like to say that when we have allowed money to Avinor, it is mainly the airports in North Norway and in District Norway. There are just airports in District Norway that need support for further operations. The support we gave to Avinor was a considerable support to North Norway, and not only to North Norway, but to the West and South and, in fact, not to Gardermoen, who are left with their own remains. So a support for Avinor is a support for District Norway. Then, fortunately, it is not as the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum says. We support the Hurtigruten. We're actually going to get 856 million. State aid to Hurtigruten every year. I have not touched this support, even though one has now gone down from eleven boats to two boats in this period. One has also gone down from Bergen to Kirkenes to go from Bodø to Kirkenes, without taking one of the 856 million. It is also true that if we had opted to increase the amount of Hurtigruten, this would have met the State aid legislation linked to ESA and it could have become a problem for Hurtigruten. I'm proud of Hurtigruten. It's a fantastic offer, which I'm very rare, but sometimes I've been allowed to experience myself. We're going to work on getting started again. But we don't have to put ourselves that way that we see the Hurtigruten in a difficult situation. So we have 856 million today. kr, even with a significantly lower offer than that contained in the contract between the Ministry of Transport and the Hurtigruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e468	The 856 million. kr is a decision and appropriations that are already before the coronary crisis, so there is no extra means that have come to remedy the situation of the company. And then we've put in place more plans in Stortinget to save jobs and secure operations. In Hurtigruten there are 1,300 seafarers who are now on leave – 1,300 Norwegian seafarers. It is the largest employment set of Norwegian seafarers along the whole coast and means a lot. Then we put a separate bond loan arrangement here on Stortinget, just to help companies that had problems with money. What has happened then is that because of the downgrading of cruise companies and very high returns demands, that is, the government is going to make money on the loans, Hurtigruten has not had the opportunity to use those funds. And you could, if you wanted, have more government purchases. Will the government council hareide look at the bond loan scheme, which allows large, important companies like Hurtigruten to enjoy the funds that the Stortinget has provided, or will he just hope that things will go well, and look at what is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e475	The bond lending arrangement is the responsibility of Finance Minister Jan Tore Sanner. Maybe he's the one who's looking at that system. We've been discussing aviation, and now we're discussing the Hurtigruten, and it's like this has been a very special situation for the Hurtigruten and for the aviation industry, and the public has really set up in this situation. It is such that one went from eleven boats to two boats without us having taken any of the 856 million. It is also true that we are saying to all the professionals in the situation that the public is setting up, but the owners must also set up. It's a British investment company that owns the Hurtigruten, and it's natural that they also set up. It's also natural that those who are in debt to these companies should set up, as we have demanded for the aviation industry. But the public has so absolutely set up by just continuing with the permissions, even with a reduced offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e482	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e487	The size and government have been willing to spend billions on intercity in Eastern Europe. We have thought it has been a wise investment for our country. We in the Central Party believe it would be a wise investment for our country to also have a thought about rail in North Norway. The government doesn't think so. The government – and the Stortinget, which supported it – has spent millions to secure train transport in the East now, even though it has been empty trains. I have been alone on those trains several times. A million has been used to make the trains go. But when there was an important offer in North Norway, the FOT routes, the government parties – Christian People’s Party, Left and Right – voted against the majority of the population. It was the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party that forced the government to secure the FOT routes. And when it comes to Hurtigruten, there's no new initiative for them. The stork secured the short-haul network, ensuring that onlookee would have the opportunity to fly. I think Hareide was happy that the Stortinget overrun the Ministry of Finance then, but that's the way it was. But why does nothing happen when it comes to the Hurtigruten? Will the Minister for Transport just push the Minister for Finance ahead of him, or will he take his own initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e496	I think the arrangements we have for the Hurtigruten today are good, and I think it makes them able to increase their supply. But I'm very afraid to put Hurtigruten in a situation where they have to repay money. That is not a good solution, and I must bear that responsibility. We have now been involved in expanding and improving the FOT offer. It's very important. I also think that if we look at Norway as a whole, compared to all the other countries in Europe, we will be relatively better off on both the air and the coast than the rest. My wish and aim is for the Hurtigruten to increase its capacity. I think they have good opportunities, precisely because many of us want to leave in our own country, and we don't have so many options. The fast route is a brilliant example of how to have a good holiday in your own country, and I also believe that we will be able to take more flights with the fast route. That's my strong wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e505	Sandra Borch - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e510	In North Norway, both business and travel are growing, and the potential for business, especially in the sea food sector, is enormous. What is lacking, on the other hand, is good infrastructure. While other places in the country are building four-field highway and railway parallel, trailers line up on many of the narrow roads and bottlenecks in North Norway. Yesterday, the North Norway Railway was up for treatment. It was sadly dismayed. The North Norway Railway has been under investigation for over a hundred years. It's not nice that people in North Norway are now impatient. From south to north in Norway, people are positive for the development of a North Norway railway. It shows polls made by VG last year. I want to challenge the Council of State whether there is a political will in the government to prioritize a North Norway track towards the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e517	The government has said very clearly that we want to see the transport systems in North Norway at the same time. That's why we're going to have our own consistency statement to do just that. There is today a distribution link to the North Norway track, but the amounts vary a lot. I would say that the basis on which the Stortinget should possibly have taken a decision yesterday would not be a good enough basis for making a decision. All experience has shown that if you want to make real improvements, the basis must be present. There are many who are fighting for a North Norway track, but going for the kind of decision that was made yesterday is actually making that kind of investment a bear service, because then it has to be a real deal. If we were to spend hundreds of billions of dollars, there wouldn't be any uncertainty as to what it would actually cost. There are a lot of good projects in North Norway, and they'll let us look at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e522	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e527	We're going back to the main question and to Hurtigruten, because Hurtigruten must be said to be the lifeblood of people and businesses along the coast, as the operator of the coastal route between Bergen and Kirkenes. Now the ships of docks, except for two ships – which the Minister of Transport also briefed on – run the Bodø-Churches tour, where the points of call now run every three days. It's pretty dramatic to go from calls every day to every three days, and this brings great challenges to people and businesses. Fish exporters report major challenges – fresh fish are going out to the market – and fast-track dispatchers report major challenges. So my question is not about the big lines for the Hurtigruten, but about Hurtigruten as the operator of the coast route. Is it appropriate for the State to increase the route provision that Hurtigruten is currently operating as the coastal route operator?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e534	We had a good dialogue with Hurtigruten when what was actually a shut-down of the country happened on 12 March. Then we learned that it was natural that we prioritised the area that Hurtigruten was most critical. That's why we made a few calls from Bodø and northwards to Kirkenes. Even with an offer where only two of the eleven boats went, the traffic during this period was very small. When the NRK was present, there were four passengers on board. So on average, it has doctors between zero and 20 passengers in the first few months of its life. That's why we didn't mean to push for an increase in supply in that period. But now the Hurtigruten assesses on its own initiative to increase supply. I'm glad, and I hope that many will travel with the Hurtigruten. That's my call. I think it's going to be a good holiday offer, and it's going to be a win-win situation. For Hurtigruten is important as a tourist destination, but also for critical infrastructure in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e542	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e547	Should Norway lose control of its own railway? That's the big question that the federations are organizing railway people are asking themselves these days. This is also the SV and the entire opposition here in the Chamber concerned about incorporating rail package IV from the EU into Norwegian law and law. This has progressed gradually. Through the EEA, Norway has accepted one package after another. First, the responsibility for rails and trains was separated, so there was a call for tenders for freight traffic, and then this last package came, package no. IV, which makes it compulsory to tender for the carriage of passengers by train on Norwegian routes. The bourgeois government has been out early, earlier than necessary, through the so-called railway reform. There is a lot to say about that reform and the division of responsibility for the railway into countless companies to buy and sell services to each other in the best public management spirit, where the railway is tendered and partially privatised, but with railway package IV this becomes mandatory. There's no way back. The EEA cooperation is based on a so-called top pillar system: an EFTA arrow and an EU arrow. That is, important transfers of authority from Norwegian authorities to Europe are to be made through the EEA pillar – the EFTA pillar – not the EU pillar, where we are not members. In this case, this is in principle abandoned by the transfer of authority over the railway to EU bodies. That's what the proposition says. This means that the government should go fine, because it's a little intrusive, as it's called. The second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution can then be used. My question to the Council of State is really two questions in one: what is the reason why he does not want to reserve himself against the IV railway package now, and what is the decisive reason why the top pillar principle has now been removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e560	The reason for introducing the fourth rail directive and package in the EU is that we believe it will improve the railways in Norway. The railway crosses national borders. The harmonisation of both security systems and other parts, the ability to buy cross-border tickets, is positive. This will also make it possible for us to lower the cost. That's very good. Then several of us will be able to travel cheaper by rail. SV, which I experience is a very positive railway party, should actually cheer this up. There has been a debate in Norway about competition and the postponement of competition. I'm not going to go into everything about it, but I want to point out very clearly that there will also be openings for direct allocations of traffic to some companies, as it was in Norway before, if there is a particular reason for it. There is nothing problematic about the EU's fourth railway package. Obviously, one gives a certain authority here, but as the representative Nävra also said, it is very limited. It's in a technical area, and we have full security for our own railway further. We have all the possibilities to pull the brake if we think there is a need for it. Here we actually get an improvement on the railway. We're getting a harmonisation. We're getting lower costs. And for those who are engaged in the competition element: if it's a good reason for that, we can also have direct awards, as it used to be. I also notice that the professional community that is looking at this is very positive about this package.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e569	I thank you for that answer, but I think the Council of State is taking this very easily. First of all, routes cannot be allocated directly. So there are exceptions that are so small and so insignificant that it's not worth referring to them at all. So this is the two-pillar system. I think the Council of State is taking a very easy look at the legal nature of this and at cleaning Norwegian trains onto the EU track. The Christian People's Party has always referred to the top pillar system. The Christian People's Party may be the EEA party over something. I also know that the Hareide Sea Council has repeatedly referred to this two-pillar system. Professor of Public Law Christoffer Eriksen has made an important legal point about this on behalf of the Railway Federation and the Locomotive Man Union. He writes that the inclusion of the fourth railway package will ‘provide that the European Railway Agency is empowered to take binding decisions against private legal entities in Norway’. It also applies to other transfers. So the question is, is this a little bit invasive? Does the Council of State still consider this to be of little intervention, and why has the Ministry of Justice not issued an opinion? That's an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e580	I have asked the Department of Justice to come with a separate statement on this. She'll come in about one to three weeks. That's what we expect. And then we get an answer to just that. I'm not going to say if I take it lightly from the legal point of view, but I've adhered to the broad environment of government competence on this, which confirms what we've said about this matter in the proposition. For its part, I think it is important that the Law Departments come. As always, they make an independent assessment, independent of political authority. Then we get the assessment of how intrusive this is. But all of the legal advice I've been given is that this is a little bit of an intervention, and that's the lead we've been making in dealing with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e587	Arne Nävra – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e592	I think it's a little strange response from the Council of State. He will deliver an opinion from the Legal Service after the proposal has been submitted. That's a weird order. Normally, in a proposition, reference will be made to the Law Department’s opinion. We haven't seen it. Now we've sent six concrete questions from the committee to the state council, which he has to answer, and which will inform the committee. The Committee has been given a number of considerations, both from Stortinget’s own experts and directly from Professor Eriksen. It has been said that the committee has been quite concerned. It is probably no secret that several prominent members of the Committee have also signalled through the media a postponement of this process to the autumn, precisely because of legal considerations. My question is, can the Council of State consider withdrawing the proposition and making a new one after legal considerations have been taken? He's got plenty of time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e601	It is the Size that determines when they choose to deal with this kind of matter, but it is not a problem that they choose to deal with this matter in the autumn. In fact, it is in line with the customs we have that we are also asking for a self-assessment from the Law Department. This has occurred in most cases since the case has come to Stortinget, also in previous discussions relating to the treatment here. The cuttyme we follow now, is in line with previous treatments in comparable cases. I'm concerned that there are no legal considerations here. These are the assessments of our best professionals, and here the Stortinget will get its own assessment from the Law Department. Of course, they do it on a self-contained basis, and that is what you should consider. But I have no reason to believe that there will be any advice other than that underlying the proposition. So it's the best professionals we've ever made, and I'm willing to trust them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e608	Severe Myrli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e613	Yesterday, the Storting Transport Committee decided that the fourth railway package should be dealt with in the Stortinget in October. If the Minister for Transport was not informed about that, he is, at least, now. This boils down to whether what is proposed in the fourth railway package is of little intervention or more than of little intervention. In fact, if there is more than little intervention, the Stortinget cannot adopt the fourth railway package, because it is a matter of transfer of authority to a body in which Norway is not a member. I heard the Minister for Transport say that the Ministry of Justice's law department has not been in the picture, or that they do not have their own statement so far, and that he has asked for it now. I assume that there is an opinion that will be made known to Stortinget, and that it will then have to address the issue of whether it is a little intrusive or not. In dealing with the third energy market package and the Acer case, the proposal itself referred to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice. Why has the Minister for Transport not done so on the issue of the fourth railway package?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e624	It has been a dialogue with the Department of Justice in the preparation of this proposition. What's coming is a separate, independent evaluation from them. It is also very much in line with the kind of leadership that has been in this sort of case before, and it is following the practice that has been for the treatment of the Stortinge. The majority will be able to deal with the cases regardless of the conclusion that would come from the Law Department. It only applies to the kind of plurality required for the different directions. The size has all the authority to take a decision whatever the Law Department should say, but we're adding up to a universal multiple because this is a little bit intrusive. I have asked for an own assessment from the Law Department. Of course, it's coming to the Storting. I was well aware that Stortinget has chosen to deal with this matter in the autumn. It's completely unproblematic from my point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e634	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e643	Now we're even going to do it so I don't infect myself! It has to be to take infectious agents into consideration, that! [[Laughter]] Aviation is crucial for people and businesses in Norway. In many places, the airport and air route are the only collective transport service. During the time we've been through, on occasion, the airline in Europe has had the most passenger departures, which I think the Minister of Transport mentioned earlier today. With this in mind, Mr Verheuwe has at times been Europe's largest airline. It says something about the importance of aviation in Norway. In many other places, in Norway and in many other European countries, alternative forms of transport are often available. There are many places in Norway that do not. Our airlines are now facing enormous challenges. Avinor has posted hundreds of employees. Enterprises and employees in companies directly or indirectly linked to aviation are now in trouble. Municipalities that have a lot of businesses and many employees associated with aviation are having a tough time. Haugesund Airport is struggling. I guess there's a solution going on, and that's good. As far as I know, Stord Airport has cancelled all scheduled flights, and Sandefjord Airport Torp has major challenges, as we have heard earlier today. My question to the Minister for Transport is simply: What is the Minister for Transport's plan for the repatriation of Norwegian aviation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e654	I'm happy for the big commitment that's in the Aviation Storting – there's got a lot of questions to ask. The last time I was in the spontaneous Question Time, 15 years ago, I was with the Prime Minister. That's the way the arrangement was that time. Then I got no questions. A man behind me wrote, "With Dad at work." [[Laughter]] It was the formulation because I didn't get any questions at the time. It's all the better and more commitment today. I'm glad you've noticed about aviation. It's a very special crisis we have. We now have the assurance that the airlines have the opportunity to get through this crisis, in good cooperation with the Stortinget. So we have now built up a minimum offer, we have also come with extra permits to the non-state airports, and we have secured a guarantee facility of 6 billion. kr. The challenge is to return to a more normal situation. We are then willing to engage in dialogue with the airlines to make even greater purchases, but we also know that we need to get the competition in the Norwegian market up. I don't think it's very important to do it so that we get government purchases on routes that actually work well in a market situation – I don't think anyone in this room wants that. But it's especially important that we now have a special focus around the parts of aviation that we're totally dependent on. In District Norway, and especially in North Norway, we are totally dependent on aviation. That's why we're now looking at how we can increase our minimum supply, how we can get more FOT routes in place, and not least how Widerøe can get his commercial routes in operation to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e663	In Norway we have a great aviation system. We often call it a solidarity aviation system. A little bit easier we can say that the major airports finance the small ones, which means that, in a normal situation at least, we have regular daily services at 40-50 airports in Norway. That's very good, but that model now has major challenges, precisely because Avinor has major economic challenges. I want to give recognition to the government for what came from actions and financial support to Avinor – that was absolutely right and decisive – but it only helps for a while. There are major challenges in Avinor. Avinor is required to operate aerodromes, but they also have large investments in progress to make the airport structure even better in Norway. My question is: What kind of dialogue does the Minister of Transport have with Avinor, and what solutions does he see to the challenges of Avinor?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e670	It is quite right, as the representative Myrli says, that Avinor has a programme for investment. As we see it, they've made very few changes to it. They have maintained investments. For example, I can name Tromsø Airport, Bodø Airport and the plans that are there, and Kristiansund. All that work has now continued in this situation. Avinor chose to have a temporary closure of eight Airports. Storkmarknes is already open again, and the others will open within a short time. Then all airports in the Avinor system will be opened again. It's in itself very good to get a larger route offer and to lift it forward. We are now working on the possibility of returning to a normal situation. But then we should also come back to a situation where we don't have so much public support for routes that can have commercial operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e679	It opens for follow-up questions – first Steinar Karlstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e684	There are many people who have flight capacity in North Norway and Finnmark on the agenda today, and that is not without reason. I have learned that the Hareide Council is concerned about this issue, and that the government has launched more measures. From Tromsø and southwards, routes are purchased directly to Oslo, but the airports of Kirkenes and Alta are excluded from the agreement of 20 March. The aeroplanes to Tromsø are filled by travelers going to Oslo, and Return does not have enough capacity to take away the passengers. The Council of State says that this is being considered on an ongoing basis. He has also said earlier in this debate that it is about expanding with one route from Alta to Tromsø. But this is not enough. What is demanded is direct routes to Oslo from Kirkenes and Alta to save the business. Then my question is: Can the Council of States confirm that he will do something about this, and will the European standard now coming on the road help to increase capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e695	When applicable to the European Standard, capacity is on board of each aeroplane. The guide we have in Norway is extra demanding – to use that expression – when it applies to Onderøe, because they can only have 50 pst. capacity. Norwegian and SAS may have 66 pst. capacity. The Norwegian President-in-Office shall remain in office until we harmonise with the European, where appropriate. It's the health authorities' job to look at it. But I think everyone is likely to feel safe to fly. I believe that is also the basis for getting more people to fly. I notice the need for direct flights from Kirkenes to Oslo and from Alta to Oslo. There's something we're working on, and I hope there's something we can get in place within a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e702	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e707	The council said he was happy that he got many questions. I would appreciate an answer. The situation of airports, e.g. on Torp, has been mentioned by the representative Myrli and others. I want to take the exit point in Torp regarding this. There is the decision on the roll-out, Decision 488, which was referred from earlier today, quite clearly. It was clarified, inter alia. by Sverre Myrli during the debate, that compensation should not only apply to Haugesund, on which the Council of State chose to use the time in place, when he was asked about Torp, and that it should not only cover the general aid schemes, but that there should be a separate mechanism to compensate for the regulatory problems encountered by airports. There are decisions that have led to a reduction in air traffic. Through a clear decision in the Stortinget, we say that they will be compensated for the loss of income they have suffered, of course minus the costs they have saved. That is why my question becomes to the Council of State: Will the Council of State follow the decision of the Grand Duchy? So I am not asking about Haugesund or the general system, but the concrete decision taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e717	That decision has in fact been followed up. Torp was not mentioned in that decision. There were the non-state airports that were mentioned. What was the basis for Haugesund's treatment was that we had a minimum offer that we should have. Haugesund was part of that offer – it wasn't Torp at that time. We've now gone into another phase. As I also said, we had eight state airports that we temporarily connected for a period. They'll open from June 1. My wish is now to get all the airports in Norway up to go again. There is something we consider and look at, but to be clear: the call decision has been followed up in the revised national budget, where we presented our leaders for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e724	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e729	I'm going to come to the State Council for Higher Education for Relief, so he won't read in tomorrow's sketch that he's been with his two adoptive papers at work. Norway is now training only half as many doctors as healthcare needs. The rest is trained abroad. This is a bad solution for Norway. That is why the Progress Party is in favour of more doctors being trained at home, and we hope that the government will have an offensive approach to this issue in the coming days, how we can train more of the professional groups that it actually needs. The question today, however, is not about those we are going to train in the future, but about those we are now training, who are in the process of their education, but abroad. A few days ago, we were able to read at NRK about the student Elin Trondsdatter Ottestad, who is studying medicine at a university in Budapest with several hundred Norwegian students. When the coronary apathy broke out, universities and colleges in a number of countries closed the doors, and at the same time more and more countries closed their borders. And the government, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, urged all Norwegian citizens to come home. Now, the country is gradually starting to facilitate infectious disease prevention and reopening of society, and several foreign universities therefore require that students now have to meet in person in order to have their exams completed. However, the U.D. Travel Council continues to advise the Norwegian authorities not to travel to all countries that are not strictly necessary. That means insurance doesn't apply, and many people don't want to take the chance to go to take the exam. To the NRK, the Council of State said that the students themselves must ultimately decide whether to leave or not. This is a very passive, defensive approach to the question. Can the Council of State just make sure that studies can be defined as a necessary journey, for that is what the Council of State thinks?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e744	Thank you for the question, and not least thank you for a question. I very much agree with the representative, Roy Steffensen. I actually sat and looked at Alstadheim, who is sitting in the press room, and thought almost what I could read in the comment tomorrow. So I'm happy to get a question. Let me start by saying that when it comes to the training of more medical personnel, and not least doctors, at home in Norway, I share the representative's ambitions about it. We have the Grimstad Committee, which is the basis for this. Now, when we scale up to 4,000 new places of study, we give priority to health and, in particular, medical training. I believe that the situation we are currently facing has revealed a vulnerability, when you find that so many of our doctors and psychologists are trained abroad. In the case of foreign students, when this happened, it was not least our students abroad. We have to divide them into two groups. One is exchange students, those who are in exchange through Norwegian institutions. There the institutions have clarified, most of them at least, that they will be very restrictive about sending out students this fall. It's simply because you're worried about getting a new infection peak, and it's going to be hard to make sure you're safe. They want to get them out to spring. Then we have the Norwegian students who, on their own initiative, are degree students at different institutions abroad. I totally share that concern, precisely because many of them have been able to learn online, some of them have also been able to conduct the exam digitally, but some now have a requirement to attend. We've done some grips. Firstly, we now have a very close dialogue with ANSA and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I hope to clarify this week just what the representative is asking; whether this can be defined as a necessary journey. The second thing we've done is that some countries, for example, Czech Republic, demands that you have a covid-19 negative test with you when you get to the country. That is why we have now organized it so that we can go to the firm with a letter that we from the Ministry of Knowledge have sent out to foreign students, and have a covid-19 test carried out and thus have the documentation needed to get into the country and to carry out the tests that are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e759	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that the Council of State is working to find a solution – I think one needs a humanist to interpret and understand the answer if the Council of State considers it a necessary journey or one. I'll once again stress that for the students who are up in this, they count every hour. There are fewer flights to Europe than usual. The ones that, for example, to travel to Hungary, has to go through a process and an application to document the purpose of the trip, so that this is urgent. There are only a few days until many students go up to the exam, so I hope a solution comes quickly. But can the Council of State ensure that additional expenditure will be compensated by the government if one fails to come up with a quick solution? Will the Council of State be prepared to make financial compensation to those who have had study expenses, who have followed the Government's Travel Council, who have followed the government's decision to come home to Norway and who are not allowed to take the exam? Will the government then settle with financial compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e766	Some of the answers may be unclear, and then it's good that we also have humanists to interpret them, so we have to keep doing that in the future. But to be clear about this: the travel councils that the U.D. brings with it really apply to leisure trips and shorter trips out. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that is right of them, is quite restrictive in granting derogations to travel councils for certain groups. But then they say that necessary travel, especially necessary travel, should be possible. That's the dialogue we now have with ANSA and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we want to respond relatively quickly, and I mean during this week. In the case of additional expenditure, we have not yet concluded on what might be compensated, for this applies not only to Norwegian travel councils, but also to the advice of the countries in which they are studying. I am quite concerned that we should not assume all the financial responsibility for foreign institutions, which in that case does not complete the assignment they have on behalf of a student. Here we also need to evaluate it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e775	There will be follow-up questions – Nina Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e780	Even before the coronary apathy, NIFU showed in a report that growth in out- and in-dwelling student mobility in Norway had stagnated, despite the government’s very explicit vision of the opposite. Governments have encouraged more young people to leave, and the list is high. Then there is also an effort on the part of the government. It was said here that vulnerability has been revealed. One thing this crisis has revealed is that foreign students have been far too left to themselves. The working party is concerned about future student mobility and those who are already in the process of an international study cycle. The foreign students say they need clear travel advice from the U.D., and I'm not so busy listening to one and the other counter-argument, but I just want to ask the government: why haven't you just managed to cut through and make sure that students get the clear answer and the security they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e787	In terms of student mobility and getting more in exchange, the government has said that our goal is that half of Norwegian students during their studies should be in exchange abroad. One of the things I was supposed to do in April, as a pretty fresh government council, was to present the government's mobility message. It was a bit demanding to give a big message that now more people have to go out and study in China and India, just while the whole world was shut down – not least because we also had to have those experiences when we're going to make a mobility message. That is why it comes to the harvest instead, but I promise that it will be full of both measures and proposals, and then I am absolutely sure that the Storting will also discuss it thoroughly. To the question from the representative, which is good, but also a little important to get a proper answer to: why can't you just give a clear advice? The difficult thing about it is that it depends on which country you're going to, it depends on the infection situation in that country, and it depends on the health care capacity in that country, so it's very difficult to give clear advice. UD's travel councils are unique, and then we need to be defined as going out to take the exams is a necessary trip or not, and that's what we're now working to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e794	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e808	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister of Justice and Defence, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, moved and answered in response to question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 8, from the representative Bengt Fasteraune to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who is directly responsible. Question 9, from the representative Sandra Borch to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e826	‘Norwegian foundations that are not taxable receive no state aid for crisis. Many of them have current fixed costs and employees. For foundations, the money starts to end after two months without income. Some people report that they see the need to sell the animals because there is no money for care or food. When will an arrangement be put in place for the non-taxable Norwegian foundations that the Storting has required the government to deliver?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e839	To this extent, the government has put in place a series of measures for establishments that were severely affected financially as a result of the outbreak of the virus and the measures to protect infection in the acute phase of the crisis. Most establishments will be subject to one or more schemes in place. Norwegian foundations, which are not taxable but registered in the Register of Liberalities before 5 March, will be subject to the compensation scheme for organisers in the voluntary and sports sector. To the extent that the riding centre has income from the retiring or other events, any loss of income from them may be covered by the Organisation of the Ministry of Culture if the riding centre complies with the other requirements of that scheme. Riding centres will also be subject to the business compensation scheme if they engage in economic activity, are taxable for that activity and are registered in the Business Register. These requirements are necessary to protect against abuse, to ensure a rapid procedure and to ensure that applicants for compensation are associated with Norway. Establishments may then receive grants if their turnover and determined costs are sufficiently high. The establishments which are less favoured by the compensation schemes are very different. Some have extensive economic activities and operate in the border country for tax liability, while others are small, local and purely non-governmental organisations. Some are also publicly owned or receive significant government grants. The impact of non-profit and voluntary activities on virus outbreaks, and the support they may need, therefore vary greatly. If the business compensation scheme were to be extended to include non-taxable enterprises and organisations, it would be necessary to create new demarcations to distinguish between those activities which are quite the same business activity and other institutions which this scheme does not intend to support. It would make the scheme considerably more complicated. The risk of abuse and double compensation through other support schemes and other government grants would increase significantly. Foundations and non-taxable organisations have other advantages because of their chosen form of organisation. They may include: have the possibility of receiving different government grants in the non-profit and non-profit sectors, in addition to the benefit of being exempt from tax liability. These are advantages that commercial operators do not have. The Government will present new assessments and proposals for measures for the Norwegian economy in the proposal for Phase 3 which will be submitted in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e858	It was a long answer and carefully read from the paper, but it did not entirely answer my question, because it was about when the scheme came. I want to interpret this as if the scheme is not going to come as of today. I myself was up at the Foundation Stovner Ride Center, and they were among those who now thought the help was coming, after the government at the press conference announced that there would be support for feed for businesses and others who need it. But then it turned out afterwards that they had been excluded from the compensation scheme that most applicants applied for. Then I would like to ask the Council of State a specific question: is it as of today that the Foundation Stovner riding centre as one of several riding schools can apply for the compensation scheme, or are they excluded from it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e867	If the representative had listened to the answer I gave, which was very precise, the representative would have heard that I said that Norwegian foundations that are not taxable, but registered in the Voluntary Register before 5 March, would be subject to the compensation scheme for organisers in the voluntary and sports sector. It is a scheme established under the Ministry of Culture. Then we get back to the proposition that comes in a short time, where we also evaluate other arrangements. I would recommend to the various non-taxable riding centres that they check out the scheme under the Ministry of Culture and see if they meet the requirements set out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e874	It is quite obvious that from the perspective of the Workers' Party, which has formed a majority of the system that the government is going to follow, we have an intention that the Foundation Stovner Ride Center should be better covered than it is at present. These are organisations that offer important activities to young people in order for people to have experience in being responsible for animals — a very good integration measure as well. It is important then whether they are allowed to resume their business now, or whether they are at risk of having to close down even more. My request would then be to follow this closely, because here there is a need for better coverage than the government has provided so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e881	I recognize the commitment that the representative has for this concrete riding center, and it's always important to remember that behind the numbers there are people and activity. We're going to facilitate that, and I have great respect for that. With regard to the compensation scheme applicable to business, it has been a point for all batches to be easy to use but difficult to abuse. That means that for that system we have to make some concrete demands. We do not want that money to go out of the country and go to jobs that are quite different. That is why we have made concrete demands for tax liability and that they are registered in the Business Register. Then there is another arrangement under the Ministry of Culture. In that case, I would recommend that this be the scheme you are looking at. And then, as I said, there's a proposition about not too long, where we go through these arrangements, and where you'll also be able to see if it satisfies the concrete examples that the representative is concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e893	‘The Penal Code states that no one shall zone under a more stringent regime than is necessary. In the Western world, there is no open provision of compensation for women. As a result, more of these women are now zoned under a more stringent regime than is necessary. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the law also applies to women in the West?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e900	The government is committed to ensuring safe and equivalent conditions for women in prison and has implemented several measures to improve the situation of female prisoners. In order to address the need for women's custody and to help prevent women from zoning with men, Kongswinger is a prison, department G, 20 places, and Telemark prison, Kragerø division, 18 places, converted into separate departments for women with a high level of safety. Furthermore, Arendal prison, any department, is expanded by 10 high-security places, and the entire prison has been converted into a women's ward with a total of 30 places, including 20 at a lower level of safety. There are places with different levels of safety and offers adapted to the needs of women. In order to ensure a better provision for women in the West Criminal Protection Region for lower-security housing, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare proposed earlier this year to convert Bergen Prison Section D into a lower-security department for women. Title D has been a play area for men physically located outside the border of the Bergen prison. The Ministry agreed in March this year to convert Bergen Prison Section D into a department with a lower level of safety for women with a total of 18 seats. So that's how we got a corona situation, and because of it, the establishment of the department is suspended. The Bergen prison now has this department on standby in the event that these sites are needed at short notice in the event of an outbreak of infection within the prison and the need to move prisoners. Of course, it is very regrettable that this work is delayed, but the situation is demanding. It marks the same way as other parts of society, whether it is children who do not get a full school day or older people who do not get a visit from their neighbors. A lot of people have been hit. It is regrettable, but the directorate is now working to get this offer in place as soon as possible, depending on the development of the coronary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e911	It is good to hear that action is being taken in the East to strengthen the situation here. We've had women who have sunded in four-man rooms on the Ravne Mountains for a long time, so it's good the Council of State has taken hold of the serious situation. But the Council of State stresses that there is a need for men's shelters, because men's shelters are long in the West, I guess, and that's why the places for these women are postponed. Does the Council of State think it makes more sense for women to fly to the East to zone here than for men to fly?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e918	The answer to that is no, but there are many more men than women. This is a capacity issue, and I simply trust that the criminal justice system – both prison and the directorate – is now assessing the situation. There has been a great deal of work done by many employees now in this situation. It has been difficult for prisoners, for employees, too many, but they have to make the assessment based on the capacity that is there and then. These measures should not last longer than is necessary, so I hope that you will be able to get in place this department for women very soon. We need that, and we need that, but right now it's late.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e925	I hear what the council says. For the Labour Party, it is not possible to discriminate against women and deprive them of the rights they have in the law, even if it is only for a little while. I think it is especially that the Council of State is about to want to discriminate against women because they are less criminal than men. Not long ago, there was a unanimous growth in order for the government to assess the detainees. All the parties here in the hall agreed that it would be a good idea to get away from the reconciliation queues. Has the Council of State made any further progress in that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e932	I have to say I'm a little surprised now. I don't discriminate against women because more men than women are criminals. But I think you have to assume that when you have a prison with more of one sex than the other, it's capacity-wise that it has to be solved there and there. It's not that we can transfer many people in a critical situation either. I have the impression that you kind of forget that we have had quite controlled travel and movement in this country. It also applies to prisoners. But we're going to put this offer in place. It's very important to do, and we have a desire that it be done as soon as possible. The answer is yes, it has been a whole week, so I expect the representative might think I had an offer in place. I'll have to disappoint the representative that I don't have it, but I can promise that I've put the Directorate of Criminal Affairs in the business of looking at what the Bighold asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e939	Question 3 has been moved and answered for question 7, so we go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e947	‘The majority of European countries have authorised logopeds, but not Norway. The majority of EU countries authorise logo pedigrees to enhance patient and user safety. How are control and quality assurance of the logoped offer carried out in Norway, and what are the possibilities for users to complain about services provided by municipal and private logopeds?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e954	The Ministry of Health and Welfare has received a request from the Ministry of Health for logo pedigree to become an authorised personnel group under the Health Care Act. The Health Directorate has previously investigated the request to authorise, among others. on 5 November 2019, in its investigation, the logo-peders recommended not to authorise logo-peders. The evaluation and recommendation of the Directorate for Health was submitted to the organisations concerned for comments and any additional information. This was transmitted to the Directorate in February 2020, where they were asked to assess whether the recordings provided a basis for changing the initial recommendations of the directorate. When the Health Directorate’s feedback is available, the Department will take a final decision on the follow-up of authorisation requests, including logopedenes. According to the Health and Care Services Act, the municipality has the responsibility to ensure that persons staying in the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services. Although the logopeds are not mentioned in the list of competence requirements laid down in Sections 3 to 2 of the Health and Welfare Services Act, the municipality nevertheless has an obligation to provide logoped services to persons where it is necessary to fulfil their rights to necessary and sound services. In the guide to rehabilitation, habilitation, individual level and coordinator, the Health Directorate assumes that the provision of logoped must be available both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. Municipalities are also encouraged to strengthen the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation services to people with sensory disabilities, such as logo pedia. Regulation on management and quality improvement sets out detailed requirements for the management and management of health care services. A prerequisite for achieving the objectives and providing quality, professionally sound services is that management has a good overview of tasks and service needs and ensures that the composition of the personnel’s competences is in line with these. If patients or users are not granted their right to the necessary health and care services, they may complain to the State. The County also supervises the compliance of healthcare with the requirements laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. I also want to highlight the patient and user representatives. They work to respond to the needs and interests of the patient and the user and to improve the quality of healthcare services. The ombudsmen are available in all counties and provide free advice and guidance, including help to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e973	The Health Directorate should have sent a letter to the Ministry of Health and Welfare on 27 May, so it's late. I have an example. I know that a logoped or logoped student with little knowledge of swallowing disorders has recommended zero intake of food and drink. That was wrong. The patient could swallow. And it was dangerous that the patient did not get food and drink when the patient could eat and drink. I had a probe, and I lost over 10 kg. It can be very dangerous not to get regular food when the patient can eat. An authorisation would have ensured that the logoped had good qualifications and formal education. When do we get answers from the Ministry of Health and Health, and when do we get answers from the Directorate of Health, which should have sent us letters on 27 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e986	It is true that the deadline for the Health Directorate to respond to this has been set on 27 May. We're waiting for an answer to come pretty soon, but I think we need to understand that the Health Directorate in these days has quite a lot of other things to work with, so something accepted for it to take a little longer, we're probably going to have to have in this time. Logops that work in the health and care services are covered by the same legislation as others. They do not need to be authorised health professionals for this. This means that the rights of patients to complain, and the ability of the Health Authority to exercise supervision, etc., are the same even if the staff working there are not necessarily authorised health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e993	I have many friends who have aphasia, and it is very difficult to complain because the logopeds are not authorized. It is also very difficult to know what they can complain about. It is a little strange that in Europe only Estonia, Croatia, Bulgaria and Hungary, as well as Denmark and Norway, do not have authorised logops, while almost all other countries do. For SV, it's important that we have good people, who can help those who need it the most. What does the Minister of Health think that logo pedders should be authorised? For the Minister of Health, it can be decided when the letter comes from the Directorate of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1002	Yes, I will also do that once I have received the letter, and thus have a basis for making a decision. What is important to say is that the authorisation system in healthcare is primarily linked to healthcare professionals. Nor is it the case that even if people in healthcare who are not authorised health professionals work, the rules do not apply, for example. related to complaints and patients’ rights. They are the same, for as long as a health care worker, the same law applies regardless of whether he has an authorisation or not. A lot of logos don't work in healthcare. This means that many occupational groups working in healthcare have colleagues working in other parts of the world of work. And we haven't normally given the type of profession authorisation as a health care professional, because that scheme has basically been linked to people who work in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1014	‘At present, only two of Hurtigruten’s ships are in operation, which means a very limited offer for people, travel and other businesses. This has particularly significant consequences in North Norway, where distances are large and other transport alternatives per year. is now very limited. Will the Council of State ensure a risk-relief model in order to put more ships back into service from 15 June, in line with the Hurtigruten recording?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1021	I thank you for the question. It is important for the government to ensure that we have a good route offer for local passengers travelling between Bergen and Kirkenes. The fast route is very important to us as a means of transport and is particularly important in the northernmost part of the route. This is being secured today by a contract where we pay $856 million. kr to Hurtigruten Cruise AS. As the representative Gülsvik says, there are now only two of the eleven boats, and they are actually going from Bodø to Kirkenes. What has been our flexibility, what we have in mind, is that we have said that despite the fact that the route offer goes from eleven to two boats, we have chosen to keep the payments in line with the contract we have. We have not fallen into the contract, we still pay 856 million. kr per year. Then the Hurtigruten contacted the Ministry of Transport, where they have asked for a government purchase on each individual boat. We've said no to that, and it's because we're also state law, on the basis of a state-enforcement warrant, are concerned if we're willing to give additional state support. The fast route has taken a commercial decision to market and sell tickets to its sails from 15 June. I'm very happy about that. I also mean that a vacationer, a get a great experience, is the quick route so absolutely something to choose. We have then chosen to say that we stand by the contract even if the offer is significantly reduced today. It has been our offer. In addition, we have covered a great deal of the permit costs that Hurtigruten has incurred. They have benefited from the good order that is. But we don't think it's right to go in with the extra government purchases for the distance that's going on here. We believe that the offer from the state – with the contract that is there today – is the right one, and we have responded to the Hurtigruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1032	This is an extraordinary situation that has affected Norway. What the Hurtigruten has asked for and recorded is risk relief. It is quite correct that the Hurtigruten has now tried, when you have not received any feedback from the Ministry of Transport until yesterday, to start marketing several departures before 15 June. But what Hurtigruten has asked for is a risk relief. This means that if the Hurtigruten manages to cover the minimum costs associated with the operation of the ships, there will also be no additional costs for the State, so there is no additional State aid in that sense. There must therefore be someone sitting in Brussels saying that one cannot ensure a proper route on the coast along our long-distance coast, while for example we are. can make extra purchases on the railway – which is absolutely right that we do. But it's at least as important for people, for travel and business that we take care of this offer. Why can't you contribute to that offer with risk-absorbing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1037	Risk relief – that’s right, but it’s probably going to be considered government purchase. What Hurtigruten has asked for is that a government purchase of maritime transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route is increased by up to 12.5 million. kr per month for each ship being put into service. That's what they wrote in their application to us. It's probably going to be viewed as state-owned purchases. So I'm concerned that the public has set up, and we've really set up, so we have a contract of 856 million. kr. Even with the reduction from eleven to two ships, and the two ships only go from Bodø to Kirkenes, we have nevertheless chosen to stick to the rusty contract. I'm concerned that the public should set up, as we've really done when it comes to the Hurtigruten, the airplane and the railway. But it is also the case that owners, those who have debts in that type of company, also have to face this situation. It applies to Hurtigruten, to aircraft and to railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1046	The fast-moving route suffers great losses in the course of this crisis, regardless of the amounts we are talking about here. If you just look at the operating expenses annually on that coast route, it's absolutely right that the state contributes just over 800 million. kr, but the operating expenses are, of course, SEK 1.8 billion. kr, which just shows that for the purpose of the route, the country is also dependent on the commercial income of Hurtigruten. You don't have the opportunity to have it in today's situation. After all, what Hurtigruten is asking for is a risk relief, so that we can provide more ships in operation along our long-distance coast. If they receive commercial income if, for example: Restrictions on travel are facilitated, the money will not be paid – it is a risk relief. Why does the Council of State not believe that it makes sense to provide a risk-relief, to provide security, to get more routes out? And if there's commercial income, there won't be any expense for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1051	That's because there's going to be a risk with additional government purchases, and then I'm thinking about the State aid code we're going to stick to. The Hurtigruten is also in a competitive situation from 1 January 2021. Then it is important that we do not put ourselves in a situation where we support the Hurtigruten and they have to pay it back. The situation is extraordinary, but everything suggests that now Hurtigruten will have the possibility to get a larger fleet going, even on a commercial basis, in line with the announcement that Hurtigruten is currently in progress. I would strongly recommend everyone to take a spin with the quick way this summer. This means, of course, that we get a certain kind of cruise traffic, which is also the fast route, but not least it means a lot for local traffic to get the fast route going again. It helps if a person uses this offer during the summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1063	‘There is a great deal of unrest in several places in the country because of extremely large amounts of snow and little smelting, and in several places over several years it has now been built up in the river of gravel and leaching. This applies to both lateral and main watercourses. The municipalities and landowners meet when they want to take action, lack of resources, but at least as challenging a split responsibility and a piece of regulation and legislation that is difficult to get through and get an overview of. Will the Council of State take the initiative to simplify and clean this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1070	I can understand very well that people who live in the interior and may be exposed to floods are very concerned with building up mass, which has been going on for a long time both in the main waterways and in some of the lateral waterways. I have noticed the recent discussion about the withdrawal of masses from rivers as a possible flood protection measure. The effect of mass take-offs to reduce flood damage varies considerably between river sections and has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Mass extraction can also have major consequences for natural diversity, especially for fish. If discharges from watercourses are to be taken out, additional laws may be required to permit them. The rules that are triggered depend on how the withdrawal affects the considerations to be taken into account and the interests involved. Although this may seem challenging, we have the opportunity to make simplifications, for example. permit under one law may replace authorisation under another law. Common to this legislation is that authorisation is granted only if the benefits of the measures are greater than the disadvantages. In this context, it is also necessary to assess whether alternative measures are also more appropriate to achieve this objective. I am concerned that the legislation should not prevent good and long-term management of the watercourses that can also handle floods. I'm open to considering concrete proposals for simplification when we're through this acute phase we're now in. In the case of security funds, the NVE's flood aid scheme is available to all municipalities in the country. The NVE website provides detailed information on the scheme and the application process. Assistance may take the form of a financial grant, where the municipality itself takes on the tasks of investigation, planning and implementation, or as assistance, where the NVE takes on this work on behalf of the municipality. The government takes people's security seriously. We have increased the appropriations for flood and emergency measures. However, within the resources allocated, priority needs to be given to measures to maximise the return of society in terms of reducing the risk of floods and avalanches. The importance of life and health and existing settlements will weigh very heavily in these assessments. And as I said, I want to consider proposals that can simplify the management of our watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1081	There are many people who buy Christmas trees on the leopard field, and it is often expensive. Then maybe it's a good idea to think about that for the rest of the year. That's the way it is with flooding as well. As the Council of State was a little bit close to it, one must think in the long term. One thing is the acute now, something else is further ahead. In the Gudbrands Valley – which the Council of State had in mind – there are increasingly decades-and-greater flukes. However, there is a great deal of expertise and knowledge about local responses again in time, and we see that the local experiences and expectations of interventions are not consistent with what the regional government recommends according to its legislation and calculations, or with what they have resources to do. Does the Council of State see that the interface between local knowledge and experience may need to be better combined with NVE and the community? And in that case, will the Council of State take the initiative to raise that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1088	The work of the NVE is long-term and several insurance measures can take a very long time to both plan and implement. I experience that most municipalities have a pretty good dialogue with the NVE about this. The important thing here is that the appropriations are kept at a level that makes it possible to implement measures. We know that the need is very great. We have prioritised funds for flood and scaffolding protection in all our years of government. We've spent 1.7 billion. kr on this page 2014. I fully agree that this level must be kept well up in order for action to be implemented. But as I said, I would like to accept concrete proposals on what can be done even better, in the dialogue between the NVE and the municipalities. Now, just last week, we had a meeting with several municipalities that are now in an acute phase to get a big flood, and my impression there was that very many people pulled out the collaboration with the NVE as well, and that the preparedness is good, but of course you can always get better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1095	Yes, this is the case with all of us, that one can certainly look at new ways of doing things. But that there has been a conflict now, and that one sees that this is getting more pressure, is because of the increase in volume and anxiety. I'm glad the Council of State sees that one can make suggestions on it. However, we see that several fleas could have been warned better and earlier, just to reduce the damage and costs, and now there is an exciting research project on this in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen. When we also see that municipalities can come into the situation that one might not have the economy to take that property a expectation – for example. to replace a bridge or build up a business area – it is a challenge if it is not economic to do so. Does the Council of State see the urgency of taking preventive measures to save society, both public and private, and not least insurance, too much more money than the prevention measures will bring about?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1102	We know that the price of damage to large floods can be enormous. There are great injuries, and large sums of money that are needed to clean up what has happened. It is therefore important to prevent in advance – I fully agree with the representative in this regard. That's also why, as I said instead, this government has prioritised having a high level of funding for flood and scrap security measures. We've had a steady good, high and rising pace on this since we got into the government. It is usually the municipalities that contribute a separate district share of 20 pst. This means that the funds we make available to NVE go even further, so that NVE can assist municipalities with competence, monitoring resources, spatial planning, etc. But it's the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for prevention. I feel that there are more municipalities now that are even better at this than they were before. This is something that is high on the agenda, and I think that is important in the interaction between the national authorities and the municipalities in order for us to be ahead of major damage that can occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1112	‘In Trøndelag, this spring there are record snow quantities in the mountains. In Tidal and Namskogan there have been no such quantities of snow in May since measurements started in the 1950s. NVE sees it as 90 pst. likely floods will occur in the county. That's 35 pst. the risk of extreme flooding which could cause extensive damage to dwellings and infrastructure. Through the crisis package, Stortinget made sure that the government was allocated 100 million. kr to work against floods. How much of these means will the government provide for action in Trine layers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1119	As the representative points out, the Stortinget recently granted an additional 100 million. SEK for NVE's work on protection against floods and slip damage. These funds came to the top of the 500 million that we had already allocated to this work over the state budget. Of 100 million. The NOK that was granted in ours, NVE has put off about 16 million. kr for measures in Trøndelag. This is mainly about basic studies and safeguard measures in relation to mercury, inter alia. in Inner Fosen, Melhus and Trondheim. In this context, I would also like to mention that the government has recently set aside up up to 100 million. kr in additional discretionary means to cover some of the municipal costs with prevention measures related to the spring flood, i.e. emergency measures now. The measures taken must be capable of being implemented rapidly and must be effective in relation to the notified floods. The Minister for Local Affairs and Modernisation will provide further information on the means of discretion in a reply here later today. Of a total of 100 million. NOK of these means, as I understand it, is set of $8 million. kr that the County of Trøndelag can distribute. That's right, as the representative says, there's record snow in the mountains this year. I don't think it's been that much since 1958. So we're in a very special situation. We know that there is a great risk of large flooding in many places in the country, and for us it is important to be in advance. Of course, we cannot avoid all the damage, but we are now trying to assist a little bit in helping municipalities to implement some emergency measures. But for the long-term flood and tailoring measures: the money that came from the Storting a while ago, probably will not be able to pay for exactly what is happening now. But of course they will be important for a longer time and at a time when we know that we are going to have a more challenging climate, which will also lead to that we will not at least have less challenges with floods and moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1130	Yes, we can have a profitable hope that the weather will help us through, so that it will not be as big a flood as it is a fear. It's positive that it's set of funds. At the same time, the Council of State here confirms that a good part of the funds is not linked to the acute situation in ours, but is linked to the longer-term work. I think it's important to work with mercury both in Melhus, Trondheim and out on Fosen, but at the same time we know that there are some particular rivers in the region that are very vulnerable when there is an acute flood. It's about Driva in Oppdal, it's about Inna in Verdal, and there we see trends in floods already. So what is the NVE's readiness for the most acute situations, perhaps in cooperation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1137	What I pointed out in my reply instead was that the extra money that came from Stortinget was just for flood and security measures, not linked to emergency measures now. That's why the government has now added another 100 million. kr in discretionary funds to assist on that side. Because we have to do two things at once. It's fine with big budgets for floods and escapes. We're for it, and we've been adding that for many years, as I also said in my previous answer here. This year alone, 500 million have been set. kr at its disposal. We've spent 1.7 billion. kr since we entered the government, and we have consistently granted more to this than was the case in the red-green years. But anyway, there's a big need out there, so this we have to have a high pressure on. My clear impression is that the NVE has very good preparedness. They closely follow developments, also in cooperation with the Meteorological Institute. They follow the weather shifts, and they have good contact with the municipalities. We had a meeting last week where we met several municipalities, which all gave the impression that they are prepared as well as possible, and they have good contact with the emergency services and the NVE.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1144	I think it is good that the Council of State confirms that these funds go to different things, because when it comes to answering these kinds of questions in the public domain, it can easily get the impression that new money is being put on the table for what is the more acute situation. It is good that the Council of State is so sincere that this is about longer-term measures, and they are important enough. But the thing that's acute now is the fact that one so late in May has so large amounts of snow in the mountains of a region. It makes me think very many people are very concerned, both for business, infrastructure and for owner-occupied dwellings. Then it is also important that the NVE has such good cooperation with the municipalities as they have. Reference is made to the discretionary means: are there any further measures related to the means of discretion and to the cooperation with the municipalities in order to improve the situation of municipalities during this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1151	I think that is perhaps a question that is better addressed to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, who is responsible for the means of discretion. He is here and will probably answer questions later today. But that's 100 million. which are allocated to several regions that are now facing major challenges and are likely to face a large flood. We experienced at the meeting we had with the municipalities, that this came along well. We have not registered that someone wants more money per now. But that's exactly why we're bringing this money too, because we think it's important to be able to assist a little. The municipalities have the primary responsibility to secure and operate preparedness when there is a flood or a notified flood or a move, but we wanted to contribute because this is an extraordinary situation. It's unusual with as much snow in the mountains as we have now, and then we would also contribute a little bit so that they could be best equipped to meet the situation that is likely to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1158	Then we go back to question number. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1167	This question, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister of Justice and Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Oil and Energy, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1172	‘NVE has calculated the risk for spring floods with serious damage to be 95 pst. in North Norway. For example, there was an extensive walk at Drevja in Wefsn on Helgeland, which NVE estimates at 100x150 meters and six meters deep. What is the government doing to ensure the preparedness of this serious situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1179	As I said, I would like to answer this question asked to the Minister of Justice and Security, since it is the NVE that has such a central role in ensuring that we are best equipped to deal with demanding flood situations. In addition to the prevention work, the NVE assists municipalities and those responsible for preparedness to deal with events that occur, and we take this situation seriously. We are now in a difficult situation where we have to be prepared to handle large floods in several places in the country, while handling covid-19 is ongoing. As the representative points out, the likelihood of large flooding is particularly high in North Norway. All responsible authorities at local, regional and central level follow developments in the flood situation closely. Local and regional crisis management is the responsibility of local and regional authorities, county councillors and emergency authorities. Municipalities also have the primary responsibility to ensure that citizens are protected against natural damage, including: through municipal emergency response. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is in close contact with the affected counties that have an overview of the risks and vulnerabilities in the county and coordinate work on social security. If necessary, the Civil Protection Agency may assist, inter alia: with the necessary equipment. In addition to the ongoing efforts to prevent floods and sharp injuries, urgent measures are needed to reduce the impact of the flood situation we are facing. The government has therefore set aside up to 100 million. kr in additional discretionary funds to cover some of the costs of prevention measures relating to this flood. I have received more information from the NVE about the situation we are now facing. Last week, together with the Minister of Justice and Preparedness and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I also had a very important and good meeting with several municipalities, county councillors and others in charge of preparedness for the spring flood to come. My impression is that a good and thorough work is done in the municipalities with readiness in the meeting with the danger of flooding. The role of the NVE in emergency situations is to provide advice and guidance to the relevant municipalities, the police and the county councillors. The NVE Regional Unit has close contact with its municipalities and is also represented in the County Emergency Councils. Prior to a flood situation, there is regular contact between the NVE and its county and municipalities. In addition, the NVE's flood surveillance and alert service is an important basis for emergency response. The prevention of floods and slips is a continuous work that must be carried out throughout the year, not just in advance of an expected flood situation. As a result, the government has given priority to measures against floods and migration and has increased the appropriations allocated to NVE’s work on this. The NVE manages the country’s resources to secure existing buildings. As from the financial year 2020, in addition to preventive work funds, funds have also been allocated to a separate item for emergency measures to be used during and immediately after an event. This item provides better predictability so that the NVE can quickly initiate actions during and immediately after an event.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1196	In the Nordic region, the major watercourses are particularly vulnerable, the Wefsna, Ranelva, Beiarelva and Saltdalselva. Based on needs and measures, Nordic countries are allocated 9.5 million. SEK of 100 million frame. kr. That's exactly what the municipality of Saltdal has asked for, $9 million. NOK, and they have received approx. half. Beiarn has received approx. One-third of what they asked for. What they've asked for seems to be a lot smaller than what they've got. I wonder: what is really the need requested from the Nordic municipalities, and what does it really mean that the VAT is compensated for should be deducted from the amount allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1201	I am not responsible for these discretionary means. It is under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, so it is a little difficult for me to answer exactly what the representative is asking about. We need to distinguish between the urgent means now available to prepare, take urgent action — whether it is to set up sandbags or other various measures to try to limit damage — and the appropriations provided in the regular budgets of the long-term flood and tailoring work. I am concerned that that level is high. That is also what I am responsible for as a Council of State. This year alone, the NVE has about 500 million. kr available for running flood and slip protection, but these are projects that go over time. It's not done in a hand turn. The extra 100 million. kr that came from Stortinget in connection with one of the measures packages that were dealt with comes well, but they will not help in the emergency situation we are currently facing. It's more long-term work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1208	Preventing floods is important, and it is cheaper than repairing afterwards. There is great danger of construction, road and rail and food in many places. In the Salt Valley, for example, E6 can be washed away. So the 9 million. kr as I mentioned that the municipality has applied for is for such urgent emergency measures to avoid important roads being washed away. In Kvam, 150 million is used. kr to secure the Quamselva against floods. If you look at it in relation to the great floodfarer in North Norway, how much money does the minister see that the government needs to have a vision of meeting this scenario?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1215	We know that in general there is a great need for flood and scaffolding protection across the country. These are measures that are notified to the NVE. NVE makes the priority based on where to get the most security, how to ensure the best possible quality of life and health, up to other measures. So you have to follow a priority list. Although we have increased appropriations, it is still not as much as all the needs that have been notified. We have to follow a priority where you get the most back for the money you spend, from a perspective where life and health are at the top. As the representative says, there is absolutely a need in North Norway. Of the extraordinary discretionary funds that were now distributed, 9.5 million went. kr to Nordland, as the representative says, and SEK 9.5 million. kr went to Finnmark and Troms. This is a part of the country we know is exposed to floods now and has the most likely in the country actually to get it. I also believe that here, as in all other parts of the country, we must ensure the best we can. Then it's about keeping the appropriations up over time, and that's what this government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1222	The President will remind you that when you take the floor in the main hall, you will contact the President. So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1232	This question, from Bengt Fasteraune to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is directing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1237	«A lot of snow in the mountains and gradually warmer weather causes the NVE to notify that there is a danger of a large spring flood, including 95 pst. the likelihood of a large spring flood in North Norway. We know that good preparations are important to avoid major damage when the spring flood arrives. Prevention is now urgent if it is to have an effect. On 15 May, the Minister of Oil and Energy announced that 100 million had been granted. crowns for prevention measures in municipalities. How will this money be distributed, and will they be distributed before the spring flood enters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1244	In many parts of the country, large and acute flooding has now been reported. The government is concerned that people should be safe where they live. In order to minimise the damage caused by the flood, it is important that municipalities take action against the flood. That is why the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has distributed 100 million. kr of the assets for flood prevention throughout the country. The government, as mentioned in the context of a question earlier today, has allocated almost 600 million. NOK 100 million for flood, scrap and protective measures. kr is added to what has already been allocated. In the last week, the population has collected information from their municipalities about the prevention measures they are planning to take. On the basis of the input from the county offices, the Ministry has allocated 100 million. kr between the counties. The population allocates funds to the municipalities concerned as quickly as possible so that they can secure municipal infrastructure. In the distribution, we have taken into account that measures should be possible to implement rapidly and that the potential for damage may vary between the counties. Both actions already undertaken and planned prevention measures expected to be effective can be supported. Acute measures shall be given priority. Funds have been allocated to all counties. By means of prevention, municipalities can contribute to less uncertainty and concern for the population. Securing municipal infrastructure would also limit damage to other property. It will always be cheaper to prevent than to repair. However, it will still be possible to apply for discretionary means of restoring critical municipal infrastructure after floods and escapes. So to the representative's specific question, it's divided into 10 million. kr to Viken and Oslo, SEK 15 million. NOK 8 million for the Inland. SEK to Vestfold and Telemark, SEK 10 million. NOK 10 million for Agder. NOK 10 million for Rogaland. SEK to Westland, 10 million. kr to Møre and Romsdal, SEK 8 million. SEK to Trondelag, 9.5 million. SEK to Nordland and 9.5 million. kr to Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1255	It has happened before, and now it happens again, and this time it will be both North Norway and South Norway being hit. Last time it was, among other things, my neighbouring municipality of Skåk in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, who had to mobilize and fight with his back against the wall. Similar events have occurred in many municipalities in the Gudbrand valley and the rest of the country in recent years. Something's been done, but there's an infinite amount left. Crisis management and cross-border cooperation work well, conditions are small, and resources find each other when it comes to it. A massive effort is being made locally to limit damage and safeguard people's security, and it is not so strange that this works when this is a recurring phenomenon. The problem is that every single time it is crisis management in the ultimate sense, because you don't have economic muscles to prevent and do what comes out in countless evaluation reports – I've been with and written many of them myself. What does the Council expect municipalities to do, based on the current flood warning?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1262	The Minister of Justice and Preparedness, the Minister of Oil and Energy and I had a meeting with the relevant municipalities and counties a short time ago, where we were briefed – including from the NVE and the municipalities – on how they are now preparing for the emergency situation they are in. It is right, as the representative says, that this is something they have experience with, and it is my impression after the meeting that the municipalities – within the uncertainty involved – have prepared themselves for the situation that is coming, as far as possible in the current circumstances. So long-term work is very important, and it has been explained by the Minister of Oil and Energy in previous answers today. What we have now allocated to money is urgent action. Then we've looked at how we can use that money quickly, and that's probably the first time, as far as I know, that beauty drugs have been used for prevention. I think that's the right priority in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1269	It is predictable which municipalities are most vulnerable, and in the media we can even read very detailed descriptions of where and how the flood is going to hit the municipalities. Once again, the term 'too little, too late' may become a truth. The municipalities and the NVE know very much what it takes to avoid this chaos that costs society a lot of resources this year. Now even demands are made on the proportion of these 100 million. NOK that was granted by Stortinget. Priority shall be given to protecting municipal infrastructure and not to financing the balance of other projects, plus some other conditions, and reporting requirements. Then I ask: why are the extra funds not already allocated directly to the municipalities that will be most vulnerable, why do you have to pay a proportion for an emergency measure, and why should municipal infrastructure be given priority over other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1276	The alternative to granting beauty products for preventive emergency measures – which, as I said, I think it is the first time being done – is that the municipalities themselves take the bill for the measures to be prepared now, and that the state is taking the bill to repair the damage afterwards. We consider it appropriate that the state be included and take most of the bill for the emergency measures now being prepared, which are feasible within the time available, and that, of course, we are also involved in contributing afterwards, once the flood has hit. So I do not agree with the criticism that it is too small, too late. We have to work in the long term, and that is – as the Minister for Oil and Energy has explained – 500 million. kr from the government to this in 2020. The size has increased by 100 million. to these long-term measures. Now we're talking about emergency measures, and they're distributed through the state because that's how the distribution of the discretionary funds is, but they're going straight to the municipalities, effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1292	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1301	‘Climate changes have major consequences. At Voss, precipitation has increased by 10 pst. in the last 10 years, and an increase of 40 pst is expected. NVE has calculated the flood protection of the Vossova stretch to 1.5 billion. krones. It has been difficult to get NVE to focus on less immediate measures that can have a significant impact. How will the Council of State ensure that the NVE has sufficient resources and legislation to support flood-prone areas such as Voss with professional competence and unbureaucratic financial support for effective prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1308	As I mentioned many times earlier today, the government is committed to prioritizing prevention measures against floods and escapes. For the purpose of the NVE's work on flood and step-by-step prevention through monitoring, spatial planning assistance, monitoring, alerting and physical security measures, approximately 500 million have been allocated. in 2020. In addition, 60 million has been allocated. kr to cover the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence in Longyearbyen. At the top of this, there are additional appropriations of 100 million. kr as Stortinget recently granted. There is a great need for security measures across the country. It has been shown that 160,000 people live at risk of floods and escapes. The NVE has provisionally identified the need for security measures in 70 municipalities at a cost roughly estimated at about 4 billion. kr. This requires demanding priorities. NVE has more than 300 million this year. kr for the construction of physical security measures. NVE must give priority to those measures that have the highest social benefits in terms of costs and where there may be a risk to life and health. Several security measures have been implemented in recent years. For the period 2014–2019, NVE has spent more than SEK 1.7 billion. kr for the construction of flood and escape insurance measures. In the case of Voss, a report from a pre-project on protective measures along the Vossova stretch is now in the final phase. It includes flood tunnel alternatives. The NVE will further consider the report and the way forward and present it to the material before the summer holiday. I cannot therefore comment on the specific project in Voss now. NVE must first be able to complete the project. But long-term flood protection is a good social economy, and with a wetter climate, which the representative also pointed out in his question, this is becoming even more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1319	I thank you for your answer. I have registered that all parts of the country have been represented with questions here today. At the same time, it's a challenge when it costs so much. We don't know what it's about, they're going to present the proposal before the summer, but to the balance sheet and to be able to initiate the immediate actions: Voss feedback is that they need the professional competence that the NVE represents, also to provide advice on smaller actions. It's at least one of the recordings. To what extent do you have enough resources to assist with smaller actions? The experience is that when it is less than 500 000 kr, you will not receive technical support from the NVE, nor necessarily financial support from the NVE. So that's the immediate action we focus on in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1326	The NVE is now assisting those municipalities that are particularly vulnerable to this. They have a high level of preparedness for it, it's close dialogue. I also want to take the opportunity to praise the municipalities, because there are a lot of people working very well now. I understand that these are demanding times. Of course, you're worried about houses, homes, people, animals and everything that can happen in a flood situation. It is very important that the NVE has the ability to provide assistance to municipalities, that they have competence and resources for monitoring. That is why we have also prioritised NVE in our budgets, because I believe it is absolutely crucial. However, the municipalities have a primary responsibility to prevent flooding and escape, but then, of course, in an interaction with the NVE. I understand that need very well. I also have no reason to doubt that the NVE is helping in the right way. I have also not received any feedback from specific municipalities that this is a challenge. But of course they have to have the skills and resources to do so, because small measures are also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1335	Yes, it's one of the recordings, that they want to have better access to the NVE in terms of planning less immediate action. But another challenge is that the different agencies have different approaches to how they calculate the flood challenge. Road and track have a floodform that dates back a few years, while municipalities have a more recent floodform. The last large flood at Voss was in 2014. Will the Council of State take the initiative to coordinate the public authorities so that they have the same starting point as regards the flood risk involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1342	It's the NVE that, together with the municipalities, has the primary responsibility to identify where you have particularly vulnerable areas. Once again, you can always get better at things, and you can probably always coordinate even better, but I think it's important that the professional competence that the NVE represents weighs heavily on these questions. They also work closely against other departments to make sure that their own basis is good in the assessments they have to make. As I said, the need is huge, and then it has to follow some sort of priority. That's the only way to solve the challenge. In that case, I believe that the NVE's professional competence is the one that should be the most weight when it comes to prioritizing, for example. the nature of the measures to be provided for, which have been allocated to the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1352	‘After the schools opened up again to everyone, there has been great concern that students’ presence at school has varied greatly from school to school. We probably agree that the digital revolution in Norwegian schools was formidable and many, including me, are impressed by how teachers handled the transition. Despite this, we probably agree that learning is best done at school. How will the Council of State ensure that schools are given the opportunity to take education back to the classroom, and how will the Council of State involve the sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1359	There's no doubt that we've been in an extraordinary situation in the last few months, and the fact that the schools were closed is a very clear illustration of it. In this situation, many people have gone a long way in ensuring that our children and young people still have a good training offer. I just have to say that I am impressed by the job that has been done by teachers and other employees by both providing training and showing care in new ways than what you have done before. There are also many parents who suddenly got the school home, who have helped to facilitate a good home school, and there are also many teachers who are parents themselves, who have had their children at home and had it very hectic in the time we've left behind. But although there are many good examples of home schools, I fully agree with the representative of Fagerås that it is important for children and young people to be present at school. Toys, learning and development are best done in a physical and social community. That is why I have always been clear that everyone should come back to school before the summer. Now finally the schools are open to all students. From 1 to 4, they've been back since April 27th, and in the course of week 20, we opened up to the other students. For me, it is important that we recognise that schools have different prerequisites for giving all students an offer at school and at the same time dealing with infectious diseases. Schools need time to adapt and to find good solutions locally, and we need to understand that the major changes in school life require a lot of planning and organization in schools. Such rules for the protection of infection are now imposing restrictions on supply in many places. Of course, this is unfortunate, but we must remember that there are also rules for the protection of children and the population as a whole. I can assure the representative that the reopening of the schools has taken place and will continue to take place in close dialogue with the parties. It has, for example, agreed that the youngest children would come back first. It has also been important for the parties that reopening could take place with a local space of action and with time for preparation, as we have arranged. They have also been very concerned that we are already giving signals about how school life is going to fall. That's what we're working on right now. Health authorities consider that the general situation of infection in the country is low, while the current measures of infection in schools and kindergartens are adapted to a higher level of infection. It creates unnecessary challenges for kindergartens and schools and makes it impossible for us to give children and young people what they need. Therefore, we will quickly provide up-to-date infectious agents who will have a longer duration and will also be valid for the autumn. The new supervisors will require kindergartens and schools to have contingency plans for the different levels of infection, while providing more predictability and better opportunity to adapt rapidly to it at all times, both locally and nationally. I both believe and hope that these supervisors will contribute to the return of children and young people to a more normal working day, and that employees in kindergartens and schools will have more predictable working days, so that they can plan and provide the best possible offer. I still want close dialogue with the sector on the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1376	In the newspaper today, three municipalities, Drammen, Oslo and Stavanger, are out there and fear that the coronary bill will hit the children if the government does not take it. In Drammen, the rapporteur says that the korona costs the municipality 50 million. Extra kr per month. In Oslo, a bar on the kindergarten side has 50 million. Extra kroner. In Stavanger, it's costing $40 million. to close the kindergartens. So in addition, money is spent on increasing adult density and temporary workers. When is the Council of State going to get an overview of how much extra funding is needed in School Norway? And when can the schools expect to have these increased budgets promised by the minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1383	I can assure the representative that we are taking the situation seriously. Clearly, local economy is of great importance for what kind of offer we receive in schools and kindergartens around the country. We have said from day one that in the case of extraordinary expenses related to corona management, the State should step in and ensure that the municipalities are paid for their expenses. But it is that both for the state and for the individual municipalities it is difficult to have the full and complete overview yet. That overview we're working on getting. We have a cross-ministerial working group, where KS is also well represented, and we're going to get that overview to make sure that we cover the extra costs that it's necessary to cover. So I want to add that now the schools have been open to about every student in about. two weeks. In the period before, perhaps some savings were made when the schools were closed. Now, when we're going to get back to a more normal operation pretty soon, I'll also think that there'll be enough of a normal resource level in the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1392	Last week's Question Time, the Minister of Knowledge brought out the gold card and gave green light to the municipalities and almost encouraged them to hire temporary workers and premises. This she repeats now that it is okay. There were good signals that the schools received, which have been in a very difficult situation and have had to organize the one meter rule in crowded classrooms. For us in SV, there is nothing more we want than the municipalities to ensure that all children are given the opportunity to be at school every day. But nobody has seen anything about the money so far – not in revised, not in action packages or crisis packages for children and young people. So then the question is, what are the municipalities and the country's principals actually going to do? How much is the Minister's promise worth when the Minister of Finance's concrete figures in the revision do not give new money to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1397	What I said in the last question hour, which I am still standing by, and which is the same government has said all along, is that the government has to stand up for the municipalities. Those words must be believed in by the municipalities, but I also hope that they have some understanding that we need to spend some time getting an overview of the situation. Because I don't think it's lucky for the municipalities either if we lose control of the economy. It's already been allocated 5 billion. kr to the local government sector from Stortinget. We're not done with the crisis packages yet. We're not in port with everything to do this spring. I am absolutely sure that we will find good solutions together with the local government sector. What is important now is that they ensure that all children receive a full offer. There is no doubt that the expenditure on additional premises and the expenditure on showers obviously falls within the category of extraordinary expenditure. So I believe that if the municipalities have the opportunity to give more than one full school day by using that type of tool, they have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1406	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-05-27.ana.ud30e1420	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Nobody does, and the meeting has been cancelled.
