ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e98	The Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Per Espen Stoknes, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e118	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e136	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e153	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e160	This proposition follows up a number of request decisions of the Stortinget and some action plans. It also follows the unintended consequences of the entry into force of the 2005 Criminal Code. The Judicial Committee was agreed by the Presidency to deal with parts of the proposal, which means that the remainder will be dealt with at a later stage. The chapters dealt with today are, for the first time, Chapter 9, concerning the reintroduction of criminal liability for the person making up the person for whom an identity certificate has been drawn up, even if he agrees to the use. Chapter 10 clarifies that criminal record of offences of professional secrecy affects all types of offences of professional secrecy. Chapter 12 proposes better protection of public service personnel. It is proposed, inter alia: new penalties for serious violence, serious threats and serious damage to public officials, minimum penalties for the use of firearms, etc. against the police and the protection of service weapons. Chapter 14 proposes that corruption provisions be applied more widely to corruption committed abroad. Chapter 16 deals with the limitation of civil liability in the event of military criminal offences. It is these chapters that are being treated today. I am pleased to announce that there is an agreed committee position on almost all points, with the exception of some divergent views under Chapter 12. To Chapter 12, there is a minority proposal from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, which will go somewhat further in terms of minimum penalties for shooting at the police or other public officials exercising police authority. The Labour Party and the Advance Party want a minimum sentence of three years, which was in line with the hearing and which is in contrast to the one-year government proposal. In addition, the Committee has chosen to tighten up on two points. The Committee considers that, with regard to the proposal for enhanced protection for public officials against damage and reprieves, «in conflict of law» should also be included in the law. To this end, the Committee shall be set up and submit proposals for amendments. We also tighten up the issues of gross and negligent violence, etc. against public officials. The Committee also agrees that we need to improve police identity protection. SV chooses to promote a proposal to that effect, while the other committee points out that this work must be continued by the government. Otherwise, there is a largely collective committee behind today's text. I thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I am addressing that proposal of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e192	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e197	This proposition is a little bouquet of different important issues. In connection with the coronary eruption, there was a great deal of uncertainty about what we could deal with before the summer, but I'm very glad that the committee took the step that they split up the proposition, so that we got some important provisions in place. In particular, I think that the protection of the public service official is important to get in place before the Storting goes into the summer. So we've made some of the provisions even stronger, for example. by criminalising grossly negligent violence against a public official. We have also sent a very clear signal in the future that we want a stronger protection of the identity of police officers. I think this is a good example of constructive law work in this house – good cooperation between hearing bodies, parties and the ministry. There's been a consensus on the vast majority of things in the proposition, but I want to add a few comments to the point of minimum punishment. The fact that the right is in favour of the original proposal of one year and not three years, which is an alternative proposal, must not be confused with weakness or casualty in the face of this type of crime. I want to be very clear: we have a clear expectation of severe criminal reactions in the face of violence and threats to the public service. These are the ones who, on behalf of all of us, are in the first line to get society to walk around, and they deserve strong protection by/in law. Our position on minimum penalties is more a matter of principles, lawmaking and trust in the judgment of judges. We're lucky to have some of the strongest and most independent judges in the world. Of course, the policy should provide a framework for the level of penalties we are going to have in Norway, but we should also be a little cautious about putting too much pressure on the judiciary. We have to avoid getting a code that makes us unconnected with the law. In a rather understandable eagerness to increase the penalties, which have been absolutely necessary, we as legislators have often suggested minimum penalties as an instrument. It may have been necessary at a time when the judges were not good enough to perceive the political signals sent from this room, but the use must be moderated a little after a while. We're going to see that there's some bad results, where quite different cases are judged to be too similar. We should try to avoid that. However, legal practitioners should not be in doubt that, as the clear rule – and now I think that I am speaking on behalf of a broad majority in this Chamber – violation of Section 155 of the Penal Code, which we are adopting today, is strictly punished.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e212	It was nice to get this proposition from the ministry, where many matters have been dealt with for some time. It is not only a question of requests from the Stortinget, but also of enquiries from the National Attorney and the Police Directorate, etc. followed up. It's good that it finally came, with a new government council, and we look forward to treating all the other parts. In connection with what we are discussing today at Stortinget, the Labour Party had three points where proposals were sent out at the hearing of the Department, but not followed up on the proposition. This is what both the case rapporteur and the representative Frülich have been dealing with, about unlawful conduct, which is about covering all aspects of possible harassment, harassment of the police and other officials, and it is about grossly negligent violence. There is agreement within the Committee on two of those points. On the third point, about shooting at the police and the minimum penalty for it, there is also agreement in the committee, which Frølich outlines, that it should be very strongly marked from the Storting that it is totally unacceptable. It's rarely that we go in for a minimum penalty, but in that case we do, because it's going to be preventative, and it's going to give a very strong signal. That's the level of the minimum penalty. For many years, I've been on gang environments, juvenile-criminal environments in Oslo, where, unfortunately, there's a lot of weapons – increasingly knives and machetes, but unfortunately also a lot of access to firearms. When we got this case, I discussed with the boss of Oslo whether we remembered any case where these environments shot at the police, and none of us remembered it, even though we've been following it for many years. Now I'm not going to give a sure statistic, whether it's not some case, but we have to be aware of -- I know these environments in different ways -- that there's something that is considered absolutely unacceptable and completely unimaginable to do. When the police arrive, and the police are ready, you surrender, and you don't shoot at the police. It's very important for us to remember that the absolutely unimaginable thing to do, to shoot at the police-- we're not going to have it in Norway. As he said, had it been shooting at the police, then we would have been bad outside, then we would have been in another country. So our point of proposing three years minimum punishment is not necessarily to compete in going the highest, but it is to mark the unmistakable in this and that at all to start operating in that path, should be completely impossible even for hard-boiled gang members, as it has been to now. It is that the impression should be attached behind the idea of three years of minimum punishment, which was also the original proposal of the Ministry and supported by important hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e223	I refer first to the case-speaker Amundsen's statement about the background of the case and what part of the proposition is being treated today. The central party agrees with the Right, Left and Socialist Left parties when we express scepticism to change the minimum penalty attached to § 155 of the Penal Code on Election or Threat to Public Service. The central party believes that the use of the minimum punishment binds the possibility of the judges to exercise understanding, and that this leads to actions with different punitiveness to be judged equally. We agree with the ministry in its assessment of continuing with today's minimum sentence of one year over the alternative proposal of three years. This isn't about taking elected and threatening public service personnel less seriously than the parties that are for a higher minimum penalty, but about that we think it must be possible to differentiate more between different things of different seriousness. The representative Frølich did well for why higher minimum penalties may be unfortunate, even if a desire for stricter penalties for acts that devour it. Policemen have a demanding and important job in society. The protection of the identity of policemen is a wish that has been expressed from among others. Joint Police Association. Other considerations, such as publicity, counter-dictation, consideration of defendants, etc., should also be carefully considered before such a scheme is introduced. The central party is in favour of assessing whether to protect the identity of police officers. At the same time, we believe that any protection of the identity must be seen in conjunction with the new criminal law under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e236	We are now dealing with a proposal on which there is a broad consensus. It is an overall committee which is essentially behind these proposals. At the same time, there may be a slight disagreement in understanding, and also in how to prevent, in particular what is referred to in Chapter 12, what is involved in protecting the police, especially against shooting or gross violence. There the majority of the committee agrees that the best way to protect the police here is to look at the criminal reactions. It's a little bit where Jan Bøhler concluded: it's about criminal reactions. On the SV side, we are concerned that shooting and violence against the police cannot only be prevented by looking at increased criminal reactions. We have to look at this a little bit in a whole. We're in a situation in Norway where there's actually very little shooting at the police, although there's, as Boehler says, some guns among some practitioners out there. But we're concerned that one of the best ways we can secure the police against violence and shooting is just that we have a police force that is very well trained to solve its tasks without the use of weapons – a police force that is capable of negotiating, and that does not lower the threshold for the use of weapons. We also see developments in other countries: it is precisely the type of police who are doing more with weapons – tasks that they have previously solved without weapons – that are more likely to be fired at, and it is the type of police who are also at increased risk of someone trying to rob them of weapons. So essential in this perspective is that we constantly ensure that the Norwegian police use as little weapons as possible. In that perspective, I regret that this vast majority of people in the last few years have constantly increased the powers of the police to use weapons. It's a little strange that you want to protect the police from getting shot at, when you've opened up at the same time that the police are putting up more to solve their problems using guns. So here's a disagreement in the understanding of how to solve this. On the SV side, we have always fought against the police having more powers to use weapons. We want the police to solve their problems as far as possible without weapons. We also believe that it gives the police the best protection against not getting shot at and not getting robbed of weapons. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e249	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e254	I am pleased that the Government's proposals for amendments have received broad support in the Committee on Justice. So the minority on just a few points has some material objections. As we have heard, this proposition follows up a number of request decisions and some action plans, as well as unintended consequences of the entry into force of the Penal Code in 2005. The proposals followed in this round are mostly in the last category, but it is important to implement these changes. For example, in the interests of trust in identity evidence, it should: be punishable for being the person for whom an identity certificate has been drawn up, even if he consents to the use. Similarly, it is important that the criminal threat of a breach of professional secrecy covers any kind of breach of the obligation of professional secrecy. It also proposes good clarifications and areas of application of the provisions of criminal law on corruption and civil liability in the event of violations of military criminal law. The main changes under consideration today concern proposals for better protection of officials. Persons performing important public tasks should be well protected and the proposed changes will help to provide better and more comprehensive protection. This applies, for example: the provisions on the punishment and deportation of service weapons and on the better protection of fire and rescue personnel engaged in missions. A practical contribution also adds that it is punishable to reproduce a service act with violence, threats and so on. Such actions may, in addition to influencing the outcome of future cases, affect the willingness and ability of officials to stand in their position. There is also a proposal for a new penal code for shooting at the police. Such actions are very serious and expose both the police and the public to danger. There is also an attack on the public interest in the ability of the police to carry out their social mission of maintaining order and order. In the long term, such actions may help to undermine respect for the authority represented by the police in their actions. It is therefore important to have a clear response in these cases and the need to tighten penalties where there is no evidence of killing intent. An overall judicial committee agrees that the upper penalty framework should be 10 years. Then the minority in the committee has proposed a minimum sentence of three years, in contrast to the government's proposal of one year. I agree that the penalty in normal cases should be more than three years, and that is clearly underlined in the proposition. However, the criminal order affects many and different situations, including, for example: scare shots not directed at anyone. That is why I think it is right, as the majority of the committee also advocates, that the minimum penalty should be set at one year. I am pleased that the Stortinge takes the time to deal with these legislative proposals despite special circumstances, and then we come back with the remaining proposals at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e267	I just saw a need to comment on what might be a slightly special situation, that the Labour Party and the Advance Party together represent a minority in this room. It doesn't happen every day. It concerns an important part of the proposition and perhaps the most important single point where there is disagreement between lots. I take it for granted that the signals from those who do not want a minimum sentence of three years are not about not taking this seriously. But for the Progress Party, it is important to go even further and to stress with the Workers' Party that we want the minimum penalty to be three years. It is based on the fact that the police, as the state's legitimate monopoly of power, must be given every opportunity to exercise their social responsibility in a good way. Then they must have the protection in the law that we believe can be better protected by having a minimum sentence of three years. It's about the police's respect and authority. The disagreement here is probably going primarily along lines dealing with the use of the minimum penalty as such. The position of the Progress Party is that we believe this is quite important, and we have listened to both the Riksadvokat, the Norwegian Police Leaders' Team and the Police Union, who are in favour of a minimum sentence of three years. There are very clear signals for those who have the shoes on, that in these two parts, with a minority in this room, we choose to go a little bit further and ask for a minimum penalty of three years. I note that this part of the proposition is the subject of broad agreement among all the members of the committee. It promises well, for these are important matters, especially the issue of the care of public officials, the police. It is important and good that we get it in place now before the summer, which has been covered in articles here today. So it's about giving the police that respect, the authority, the protection and the protection they need to carry out their most important social mission on behalf of the state and all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e296	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, up to three lines of response will be given – within the allocated speaking time – after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e303	This matter is essentially about the transfer from the King of State Council to the Ministry of Foreign Administration. Today it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs no longer propose candidates for membership. This responsibility is proposed for transfer to the State and Social Suites. There are thus several different and independent organisations that can now propose candidates. The proposal also proposes to legislate for some very basic conditions in order to be appointed as a member of the denominator, such as that the person to be appointed must have adequate Norwegian knowledge and personal property. During the hearing in Stortinget, however, several people thought that professional qualifications had to be required in order to be appointed. Right? I think that when there are now a number of different organisations that can propose candidates, they will have the opportunity to propose candidates that these organizations think have the right competence. In this way, the desire for the lack of skills and competences among equals will be taken good care of. And trust is maintained by the fact that the Ministry's task is effectively limited to reviewing which candidates are proposed and making a proper check that they comply with the basic requirements of becoming nominees. In addition, it is also relevant to note that in the departments and practice lawyers it is no longer possible to be nominated as members of the denominator, precisely to ensure the confidence and independence of others. The Progress Party, the Working Party and SV have their own suggestions that they will probably deal with themselves, but there is a joint committee behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e316	The Workers' Party supports the transfer of the authority to appoint members of the UN to the responsible Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the transfer of the power to propose candidates to the counties and social suites, the non-membership of ministerial staff, the transparency of the candidates proposed in the process of appointment of members of the denominators, and the requirement for adequate Norwegian knowledge and personal suitability for members of the denominators. Of course, we record the feedback in the consultation process. We believe that these changes contribute to a quality assurance of viability that is absolutely essential. There shall be no political ties. We believe that the changes contribute to transparency, which is necessary because denominators have to make heavy choices that determine human destiny. Norwegian knowledge and personal suitability must then also be in place. We also believe that the social partners, the Legal Association and the humanitarian organisations working with asylum seekers and refugees should be given the opportunity to propose candidates to the candidates. This will contribute to the necessary balance and professionalism. What we are not satisfied with is that we are still waiting for the long announced review of legal certainty as a result of the many selections that have highlighted the importance of legal certainty in asylum matters. In 2018, the Christian People's Party itself promoted a Document 8 proposal on legal certainty for children. Also then it was referred to a review. The Labour Party considers that the lack of legal certainty in the asylum procedure may have very serious and fatal consequences for the individuals concerned. We would stress that Norwegian legislation, administration and practice should respect the rights and obligations of Norway under international conventions. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government requests a review of the appeal procedure in the field of aliens with the expectation that this implies better legal certainty for asylum seekers, including the increased use of counter-dictation and orality in the appeal procedure.’ In doing so, I take up the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e332	The representative Masud Gharahkhani then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e337	The party of progress joins the changes in the proposition from the government. We don't think these changes are going to matter much to the very handling of the issues, but it'll be a simpler system to administer, and that's good. In contrast to the Labour Party, the Progress Party wishes to move in the opposite direction when it comes to legal certainty and appeals for asylum seekers in particular. We believe that once you have such a case, you should go further to make the necessary changes. Today, we know that asylum seekers have a much higher level of legal certainty and more specific arrangements than an ordinary citizen encounters public administration. There is reason to believe – we also know from previous cases – that there are a lot of mistakes in these cases, and if we look at all the errors that are discovered afterwards, it is absolutely certain that these mistakes are mainly made in favour of asylum seekers and others who are applying for a stay in Norway. It says something about the possibility of staying in Norway on the wrong basis being too good. The Progress Party proposes, in this case, to restrict the possibility of making continuous requests for conversion. It has become that what was supposed to be a narrower safety valve is now about half of the case portfolio of UNE, and then the narrow safety valve has become more of a standard that does not work as intended. When we also know that part of these requests for conversion can delay the deployment of expulsion, this does not work as intended. We also believe that legal aid schemes should be similar to what all other citizens have. This also promotes a proposal to remove all special legal aid schemes for asylum seekers or anyone seeking residence in foreign affairs. With that, I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e350	Then the representative Jon Engen-Helgheim brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e355	Asylum is about life and death. When you say that you want to go in the opposite direction of increased legal certainty, for example. what was said now by the Progress Party, and what the Labour Party says, I am quite shocked that something like this can be said from the Parliamentary Chair, that one wants to weaken legal certainty in such serious matters as this. I don't think the government will. Nevertheless, SV will not support this proposal because we believe it does not in any way correct the legal security problem that is in the UN. It has been well documented through various samples that have identified the problems of the foreign administration, and in particular the UN. That is why we have a proposal to ensure full contradiction in these matters, and to ensure personal presence. That's what the samples have proposed, and we suggest that. In turn, we will support the proposals of the Workers' Party, which is a vaguer wording in these areas. The hearing in Stortinget showed that there was also no connection in civil society to these changes, and it was pointed out that this is not a significant improvement in quality. The foreign administration is very complicated. There is a difficult legal application in these cases. There is a need to have a good knowledge of the country situation in the world and to have, for example: knowledge of faith and life and competence in gender identity and sexual orientation. Several reports show that Norway has also failed to handle the cases of converts safely. There have been too many errors in this system, it shows the Legal Aid Office. In the cases that were taken to court, very many cases were changed, and it shows that this system is not good enough. That is why we have made proposals for both better training for current members of the public in terms of asylum and foreign and country information, which is very important if you can, generally speaking, not be exercised there, that you have to have qualifications, and that you set up a positioning board to appoint these members. Asylum is difficult. It shall not be a campaign venue for activists on any of the aspects of asylum and refugee policy. Therefore, we want to go in this professional direction with quality assurance and do not see that this proposal by the government strengthens it significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e370	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e375	I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposals for legislative changes. The amendments will provide for a simplified and more appropriate system for the appointment of members of the denominator. So I have noticed that SV and some of the hearing bodies believe that specific competence requirements should be set for UN members. I don't think there's any reason to make any changes to today's starting point that the foreign student will be a playwright. The same arguments that underpin the fact that we have playwrights as co-judges in court also speak for the preservation of the layman's system in the Foreign Study. Toyers are good representatives of the general sense of law, and many of the assessments to be made require common sense and experience of life rather than legal or other expertise. It is also the case that the foreign student has a separate scheme for the training of new members, and I would not recommend that neither the magnificence nor the government directs the details of the training and what is appropriate for doctors to be able to perform their duties in a good manner. So I notice that more people are concerned with other aspects of the foreign topic than the law actually applies. I think everyone acknowledges that the foreign student has a demanding assignment, and it's so natural that there is attention to the subject matter's business. The foreign student handles issues that often raise difficult professional questions, and in many cases face an unclear picture of evidence. In particular, it is a characteristic of individual matters dealt with by the Department of Foreign Affairs that they often arouse strong emotions and public debate. As the Committee is aware, the Granavolden Platform shows that the government will look at several points regarding the proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Study. The objective was, in fact, that an overall consultation note on this should be completed this spring. The work has been somewhat delayed as a result of the corona situation, but several of the issues raised by members of the Committee are some of which the ministry will come back to in the planned consultation note. In this context, we will emphasise the importance of a good balance between legal certainty, efficiency and legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e394	The changes proposed by the government are supported by the Labour Party. We think it's neat to make those changes. But it's not unnatural that every time we discuss these issues, there's a discussion about legal certainty, because there's been a lot of samples that have pointed out that there have to be changes, i.e. more counter-dictation and verbality. Every time the government says it's working on a review. There's an impatience around when this review comes. Can the Council of State give us a plan of progress on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e399	It is true that there is a need for improvements in some aspects of the foreign student's business, but since it was mentioned by the representative Karin Andersen that it was a fundamental legal security problem, I just want to say that I disagree entirely with that. Administrative decisions are taken – this is not a special court – which is illuminated, you have counter-dictation, and you have rules for oralism. But we can make improvements. Our goal was to get it delivered this spring. We have had a lot of other issues to contend with, especially after March 13, where we were responsible for managing the coronary situation, but our goal is to get this out before summer, if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e404	The committees that have investigated this have indicated that there is a legal security problem. The law firm's hard work has shown that there are too many cases that are changed when you get legal aid and the case is taken to court. In addition, there have also been cases in which the foreign government has misapplied the law, so that people who have come to Norway without having proper documents have been convicted. That means that here we have a legal security problem in the system. So my question is, when the government now says it's going to have this review, is it for the purpose of strengthening legal certainty, or, as the Progress Party wants, of weakening legal certainty in asylum matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e409	Just first, because a claim was made, which I also heard Professor Andenæs promoting in connection with the Nav case, was compared with the Foreign Administration: I totally disagree with that assessment, just so it is said. It is often so in juss that you can have more opinions, but it is therefore not established what the representative says, at least I have not received any such things on my table. The government's goal is to follow up the Granavolden platform. That is what we want to do, and it is primarily about strengthening legal certainty in individual cases, inter alia. to the converters, to which we're going to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e416	There will be a bit of debate about some of the things that the matter is not really about – that is quite rightly pointed out by the Council of State. But these are so important things, and there is quite a burst of vision in the hall that you can record. As regards legal certainty in relation to asylum applications, I think everyone agrees that it should be good, and that should be right. But if you have arrangements that are too good in the favour of asylum seekers, for example. That you can appeal this in too many times, it can get a wrong outcome. We have past experience in several hundred cases, we had a thousand cases, which were put on hold, where people had got citizenship on the wrong basis because at some stage they have given incorrect information – in most cases. I wonder if the Council of State, when we know that so many cases have been dealt with on the wrong basis, has made up some opinion about most of the cases where mistakes are made, go in the favour of the applicant, or whether they are in the applicant's disfavor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e423	I think it would be totally wrong of me on the basis of my three months in the field to wonder about the number of things that go in one or the other's favor. We have to try to have a system that makes you get the right decisions. These are difficult things. I myself have – from the old days – experience of being an asylum lawyer. It is clear that there are many and difficult questions related to evidence and related to many aspects of the case. But I feel that Norway has a very good system, and we're trying to deal with this as properly as we can with free legal assistance when you come to an oral asylum interview, you follow proper procedures, and you have counterpoints when there's uncertainty. But there can be improvements both on the one hand and on the other. I am concerned to have a balance and to have control of this field, so that those who are entitled to protection actually get it. That's what's important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e428	The cord shift is with the change. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e435	It's very serious if people are judged on the wrong basis. It is in all cases, even when decisions get a wrong outcome. What is problematic, especially in these matters, is that it can be very fatal, as was said. There are proven cases in which foreigners who have come to Norway with fake papers have been convicted for it, say if it's wrong. There is a representative proposal in Stortinget to deal with these matters. It is a problem I hope the Minister of Justice could be interested in, because no one should be satisfied that these matters are being made wrong. Then the Minister of Justice compares these members of the county with the laymen's system in ordinary courts. In ordinary courts, it's a complete contradiction. There's a personal appearance. There are the things in place, which SV suggests should also be in place in these cases. There is quite a difference between many of these issues, which include in-depth knowledge of the legal situation and the security situation in remote countries that we have little information about, and that is not about public awareness, but about concrete knowledge about the situation is dangerous or not. It is about the assessment of how safe it is for people such as: are conversions, which are gay, or which have political persecution as their main basis, how they are treated, and how the situation changes in different countries at different times. This is very complicated and not general knowledge at all. Therefore, I am surprised that one day’s information for new members is considered sufficient. I would never have dared to sit as a member of the denominator if I had received so little training, for these are important matters. That is why I believe that what we have seen now, that activists on both sides are appointed denominators, and where the Foreign Affairs Department becomes an arena for political draw-outs on different points of view of asylum policy, is wrong. There shall be a judicial body which shall determine the case on the basis of factual, professional and legal arguments, and also with full knowledge of the situation in the country from which he is seeking protection. So I hope the government comes up with a more complementary matter than it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e461	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e468	In the proposal, the proposers point out that this has previously been the cause of the Storting. In 2015, Europe experienced a historically high influx of refugees and other migrants. More than 1.8 million border crossing Europe’s external border were registered in 2015 and over 1.3 million asylum applications were registered in Europe. Migration led to major challenges in Norway and Europe, and both Schengen and Dublin cooperation was seen under considerable pressure. Today, the situation is completely different. The pressure on migration towards Europe has been reduced, but it is important to follow closely the situation. As a result of the generally uncertain situation in the world, there is a high risk of increased inflows of migrants and asylum seekers. The government is therefore sending out a proposal for an emergency standard these days. This is important if the situation is to change rapidly and is the cause of situations where we see that income numbers can pose major societal challenges. The government is governed by the Granavolden platform, which the proposers have also been able to adopt, and I am sure that, if the situation so warrants, and the government feels it necessary to make some of the in-depth proposals proposed by the proposers, it will be possible for the Right to support it – as we have done in the past. The setting by the Committee is that the proposal for a representative is not accepted, and all parties, except the Party for Progress, are behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e481	The Labour Party wants a fair and predictable refugee policy, and in a world where 70 million people are fleeing and 30 million are recognised as refugees, we have to ask ourselves the question of what is the best and fairest refugee policy. That's the way we can deal with as many of the most vulnerable refugees in the world as possible. The migration crisis in 2015/2016 showed us that asylum policy is inhuman, unfair and unsustainable – inhuman because it presupposes this path of death across the Mediterranean, unfair because refugees in neighbourhoods where generations are lost are forgotten, and not sustainable because the asylum institution is at the brink. Large resources were used to return those who were not entitled to protection, resources that could have been used on those with protective needs. That is why the Labour Party has developed a comprehensive asylum and refugee policy, where we give priority to quota refugees and commitment to the neighbourhoods through a solidarity pot – a pot that, in addition to humanitarian aid, will help to support the beneficiary countries and the millions of refugees who live there by giving people the opportunity to flee to work and to create a worthwhile life. This is the most fair refugee policy. That way, we can help more of those who need it the most. Unlike the Right and Advance Party, we are not for quota refugees one day and will scrape the whole scheme the next day. We insist that quota refugees are the main track. It's about trustworthiness. It is not credible to say that we should help them where they are, and the next day cut quota refugees and aid, as the Progress Party has called for, and which is the party's history in these matters. The proposal of the Progress Party lacks credibility and correct solutions. The Progress Party has now forgotten that they have been responsible for Norwegian immigration policy for six years without lifting a finger to conclude such third-country agreements. Confidentiality is important if you want to make agreements with other countries, both to make refugee policy fairer and to ensure border control. There is no migration crisis today, but it can come in the near future, and then we need a comprehensive refugee policy. That is not what this proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e494	The installation from the Working Party was as usual good. They have a good input into what is right in asylum policy. What's a shame is that they've just gone in to pick up 500 asylum seekers from Moria and thus go against the post we've just heard. If there is something the asylum crisis in 2015 taught us, it is the importance of being prepared. When 31 145 migrants and asylum seekers blew up both asylum records and the reception system in 2015, we did not have the legislation in place. Right now we are in a wave valley when it comes to asylum arrivals, but no one knows how long this is going to last. This is when we have to put in place a code that gives us sufficient control over our borders in a crisis. If we wait until the borders reopen or if other unforeseen events again lead to an enormous influx of asylum, it is too late. I think there are more and more parties and individual representatives starting to see how dysfunctional today's asylum system is. Today's proposals are essentially the same as those promoted by the Progress Party together with the Right in Government. The progress party would like to go much further. We believe that the asylum system itself leads to human smuggling, distress and injustice. The asylum system lures more into suffering and distress than it saves, and it is not unreasonable to expect that the Right still stands for the policies they have previously promoted in government, and has not made it possible for asylum activists, the Christian People's Party and the Left to kneel down. I hope we also have other parties in the Chamber who see the importance of getting control of the asylum system before the crisis again is upon us. It is strange that the majority in this Chamber saw the need to be prepared in 2015 and among others. Introduced an instruction authority over UNE, but as soon as the danger was over and the crisis was on the decline, the majority of the population wanted – with the Workers' Party at the head – to be again unprepared by removing the UNE's instruction authority. This is an irresponsible procedure. Minister of Justice Monica Mæland said a few days ago that the government is working on some of the proposals that are now being promoted, for example to reintroduce the distinction between Convention refugees and asylum seekers, which was removed by the Stoltenberg government. In that case it should be unproblematic to vote in favour of this in the Chamber today. These proposals have already been examined and made in the past by the Right and Advance Party in government, and both legislative and process quality assurance is fully ensured. It would be sad if this case should also end up as a new Moria case, where the Right first adopts a sensible and responsible position and then kneels for the Christian People's Party and the Liberal Immigration Policy of the Left. I would like to raise the proposals the Progress Party is promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e515	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e520	Following the situation we experienced in 2015, with enormously high numbers of asylum seekers arriving in Europe and Norway, a number of necessary sanctions were adopted in Norwegian asylum policy. Today, the situation is quite different from that in 2015. In 2015, an average of 2,600 people applied for asylum in Norway each month, while in 2016 and the following years there has been less than 250 per month. These figures relate to asylum seekers coming to Norway and do not include relocated and transfer refugees. With the situation of the last few months, arrivals have been significantly lower than this. During the first weeks after closure, 10 asylum seekers visited Norway each week. In other words, the situation is quite different today than it was in 2015 and 2016. One of the arguments put forward by the proposers is that on 27 February 2020, the President of Turkey announced that it would no longer detain refugees from the borders with Europe, and that there is a reason to introduce restrictive measures in Norway now. However, during the period following the notice of Turkey, increased movements have not been recorded across the border between Turkey and Greece, although the situation in the border regions has been unstable for a period. As more restrictive measures have already been implemented in the Foreign Affairs Act in recent years and the situation does not indicate an immediate need for new measures now, the Centre does not support the proposals in the proposal for a representative. If there is something the Storting has shown great goodwill and capacity for this spring, it is the ability to act quickly when the situation requires it. Both the government and the Stortinget have had to deal with big things incredibly quickly. In 2015, the situation was quite different. Then we experienced a great influx of migrants to Europe and Norway, and the government spent an unnecessary amount of time before it reacted. It had major consequences, among other things. Big forest. It was the Stortinget that eventually had to take responsibility by adopting the asylum settlement. We have to avoid repeating this situation. The central party considers it important that the government closely follow the migration situation and that it quickly returns to the Storting with new measures if the situation so requires. In that case, the centre party will contribute to a quick procedure, and I am confident that the rest of the Stortinget will do so as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e533	It is absolutely legitimate for a country to want to have control of the borders. It is also quite legitimate and right to discuss systems for dealing with asylum and refugee flows. What's not legitimate is to discuss it as if it's the attempt to help people in distress who are dysfunctional, and that it's not the war and persecution itself that makes this dysfunctional. It will always be. It is impossible to make war predictable. Had it even been so well that it would have been possible to do the situation so that we knew in advance just how to handle it, and for example. how many would be refugees. There are several representatives here in the Chamber who are discussing this as if that were the case. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Where, then, are the refugees going to take care of themselves? I'm recording that most people here think it's okay that a small country like Lebanon, with a population of about four million, should have one and a half million refugees, and that it should be quite okay if they get some money from other countries. While here with us, it was referred to as a major crisis when it came a little over 30,000. Yes, it was difficult, and it was because the government was passive. SV asked for a crisis meeting in the Stortinget in August, the Red Cross set a crisis loss, while the government even carried out a budget in October with cuts in these areas — in a critical situation. So yes, there's a need to go through the preparedness regulations, and that's as far as I know a hearing about now. I hope that the bulk of the population is not taken off by the same panic as in 2015, when they joined forces to tighten up integration. Everyone is interested in not accepting asylum seekers or refugees who do not have a basis for doing so. Everyone agrees. But what we're doing in those situations cannot help curb integration, and that was some of the problem with the proposals that were adopted by a majority, except for the SV and the Greens' Environment Party, at that time. It is important that we have systems that can handle major fluctuations, but they need to be reviewed in a factual and calm manner, so that we can ensure legal certainty and that individual cases are not politicised, as they were during the refugee crisis, when there was an instructional authority over UNE. I'm very glad that the Storting removed it. Of course, we reject this proposal. We do not refuse to discuss any emergency measures, but they must be appropriate and ensure legal certainty. It is important, for these are issues that require a high level of legal certainty, and Norway should be a country that takes care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e546	In 2015, Europe experienced a historical influx of refugees and other migrants. Eurostat figures showed that more than 1.3 million asylum applications were registered in Europe. In Norway, more than 31 000 asylum applications were registered. The migration situation led to major challenges for Norway and Europe, and both Schengen and Dublin cooperation was put under considerable pressure. In order to deal with the asylum crisis, in 2016 the government promoted a number of mitigation measures for the Stortinget. The proposers now want the proposals voted down to be re-examined and put in place. For me, it becomes crucial whether there is a need to introduce the measures at this stage. When we compare the migration picture today with the arrival figures from 2015, it is obvious that today's situation is quite different. Arrivals to Norway and Europe are now very low. The number of asylum seekers to Norway has been broadly below 10 since March/April. Having said that, I would like to stress that Norway is following closely the development of the border with Turkey. After Turkey's President announced on 27 February this year that it would no longer detain refugees from the border with Europe, no increased movements have been recorded over time across the border between Turkey and Greece, although the situation in border areas has been unstable for a period of time. Turkish border guards patrol the waters used for irregular crossings, and to a large extent intercept them. I do not see now that it is necessary to reintroduce the partly intrusive mitigation measures proposed by the proposers and proposed by the government as a result of the very special migration situation we had in 2015. The government will follow developments closely, and we will promote the proposals we consider necessary for the Storting, if necessary. In this context, I mention that we have recently sent a proposal for a new emergency shelter to limit large calls for asylum. In the event of such a situation, we may start to grant authorisation under less favourable conditions to asylum seekers in need of protection, but who are not Convention refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e562	In this proposal, the Progress Party also takes up initiatives for third country agreements. It is worth noting that within six years in government, the Progress Party was unable to establish such agreements. What I'm not talking about is return agreements or agreements Europe has with Turkey. Norway does not have a direct agreement with Turkey, nor with individual countries, where asylum seekers arriving at the Norwegian border can be referred to safe third countries outside Schengen without actually examining their asylum application. I know that the Council of State can't answer what the Progress Party was doing in government, I don't even think the Progress Party can handle that. What I want to ask questions about is what the government has really done, and whether the government has initiated such agreements. If yes – why has such agreements not been put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e570	As the representative says, I cannot answer for what they have done before me. From the time I entered the department on 24 January, the situation has not been such that we have negotiated this type of agreement. After all, we have had a Europe and a world hit by the Korona, with closed borders and closed airspace, where this work has simply not been a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e575	I can assure you that the Advance Party, when we were in government, worked for such agreements. It is possible to obtain such agreements and the Workers’ Party should decide whether they are in the case of such third-country agreements. But that's not what I took the line for. It was mentioned in the State Council’s intervention on the need to introduce some intervention measures. It was when the refugee crisis was on the verge that one wanted to introduce this last. What this spring has taught us is that it's very best to be prepared when something happens. Coming back because you can't predict everything is demanding, and when we have the experience we have, you should use a calm period to prepare for the next wave, which most experts think will come. Then I wonder very much: what is the reason why the government wants to wait until it is too late, until the crisis stands at the door, before you want to take action that you need to know about in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e584	I fully agree that it is important to be prepared, although the Stortinget has shown in recent months that they can work quickly and thoroughly when necessary. That's very good. It is true that the government in its time promoted these proposals, but it did not get a majority in the Grand Duchy. That majority has not changed, and after this case was voted down in Stortinget, four parties gathered on Granavolden with the experience they had from 2015 and agreed on a platform. That platform is what the government rules on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e591	The asylum and refugee policy is about conditions in a way beyond our control and is very unpredictable, of course, especially for those involved, but also for countries around it. Then, of course, the world has created a fragile network of civilization, which is the UN Conventions and how we are going to deal with such situations. It is important that countries such as Norway, especially now that we want to sit in the Security Council, call about this very weak tissue of civilization as it is, and follow the UN both in accepting quota refugees and that system, and also in interpreting asylum law, for example. This with a return to third countries, i.e. no further return to persecution, etc. Can the Council of State ensure that the changes which may come from the Government in this area remain within those provisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e596	I'm not quite sure if I understand the question, because the answer to that is that yes, of course, we relate to international conventions. We are dealing with the right of asylum. We return to safe third countries. It is part of the Dublin Regulation, which the representative knows of course. If you come from a safe third country, you do not have to deal with your asylum application here. Then you have to go back to that third country and get it treated there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e601	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e608	It's short time in a sequence like this. The problem here is the definition of what is ‘a safe third country’. That's the whole thing if you return. Immediate changes were made in the Foreign Affairs Act that have been removed, for example. what stood there before, that you must have the opportunity to apply for asylum in the country to which you were returned. It removed the bulk of the population in the autumn of 2015 over a weekend, without consultation, without any treatment at all. It was thought that the UN was in conflict with the obligations, like they thought, that it was contrary to our obligations to remove the reasonableness condition, as the majority has also done. Norway is the only country that has done and is the only country in Europe to return families to internally displaced persons in Kabul, for example. That's why I'm asking these questions. Because when you're going back to a third country, it's not just that you might not be persecuted in that country for what you've done, but that you could also risk that country returning to a third country that's persecuting you. The reason why this became very topical during the last refugee crisis was that the EMC had condemned Russia for returning asylum seekers to Syria and the Assad regime. Nevertheless, the majority here thought that it was okay to return acids to Russia without asylum treatment here. Then, of course, many of those matters have had to be dealt with in retrospect. That's why I'm very observant about this now when you're going to make contingency provisions, which I agree you need, because you may need to have some other provisions in times of crisis. But then you have to stay clear in court, because it is fatal if you make mistakes, as was said in the previous debate. It is also important not to fall into the trap that the changes you make inhibit integration. That's what you do if you like. refuses to allow people to be with their family. I really think everyone should realize that it's hard to gather their heads about integration and language training and such things if you're afraid not to be with your children or your spouse. I fear that we are in the trap again, and that is what is going to happen: that there are no measures to prevent someone who does not need protection, but that one tries such a scare policy so that here it should be so bad and difficult to come, because here you are not allowed to be with your family, and that it should scare away those who are real asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e620	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e636	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e643	The Ministry of Justice and Security proposes amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act which allow the foreign authorities to provide information to the police for more purposes than under the applicable law. Firstly, it is proposed to provide a basis for the provision of information necessary for police tasks under the Foreign Affairs Act. Following the proposal, the non-resident authorities will have both the right and the obligation to supply information necessary for those purposes. Furthermore, it is proposed that specified categories of information may be provided for police purposes and quality control of police records. In addition, it is proposed that other information may also be provided if necessary for the prevention and investigation of non-residents’ offences or other offences that could result in higher penalties than imprisonment for six months. It is proposed to regulate the distribution of a facial picture in Section 100 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which in all respects substantially opens up for extradition for the same purpose as under Section 8(a). In addition, the proposal proposes amendments to the passport law. The purpose of the changes is to ensure access to mutual control between the passport and ID card registers when processing applications for new passports and national ID cards. In addition, it is proposed to legislate that it is optional for the individual holder to issue ID cards with travel rights. The use of concepts in the two laws is also proposed in line with the EU Data Protection Regulation. Finally, amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act are proposed, whereby the grounds for requiring a police record for employment in the prosecution authority are harmonised with the corresponding provision of Section 18 of the Police Act. Adjustments are also proposed at home in order to require a police record for recruitment, etc. in the Resumption Commission. The Committee considers that it is important that the authorities have the necessary and clear means of effective enforcement of existing legislation and that the Committee is in full agreement with the proposed amendments. SV has a proposal that the disclosure of information cannot take the form of direct searches, and will certainly explain this to itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e656	The rapporteur has now given a good account of what the proposals involve. On the part of the Labour Party, we support the proposals for the amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. Police have a very important role to play as part of a single foreign authority in Norway, both in the role of the executive body for the tasks in the foreign field assigned to the police and as a body responsible for combating crime and social security. We know, for example. the police are doing an important job by assessing the identity and social security of all new asylum seekers coming to Norway before the cases are dealt with by the UDI. Police also have a number of other administrative tasks related to their role as a foreign authority, including tasks related to border and foreign control. These tasks have both an administrative and a police purpose. In these contexts, where the police are acting in full or in part in the role of a foreign authority, we believe it is obvious that the police should have access to all relevant information registered with the foreign authorities. However, when the obligation of professional secrecy is notified, in some cases, it prevents this information from being disclosed, we are pleased that this is now clearly clarified by this amendment. It is proposed that this proposal should open up the possibility for the police to be able to obtain information from the foreign authorities to a greater extent than the legislation currently opens up, even in the case of tasks for police purposes only. In particular, information necessary to clarify identity and residence status in different contexts is involved. The obligation of professional secrecy is not something that we take lightly. Everyone should be able to be sure that the law provides us with the necessary protection from the fact that sensitive personal data are being compromised. At the same time, other fundamental considerations sometimes indicate that information can be shared for purposes other than those for which the information was originally intended. The ability of the police to carry out their police duties in a good way to ensure that we are safe and to combat crime is such an consideration. We also know that there is often a close link between the tasks of foreign agencies and the police, and that both sides can benefit from closer cooperation and exchange of information. We therefore support the proposal to allow for a greater level of exchange of information between the police and the foreign authorities than is the case under current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e667	Right, it's important that the police have a clear secret to use the information they need, depending on the role the police play. The police need and should then be able to make absolute use of information from the foreign authorities' registers when the police carry out the task of being a foreign authority, and that it is considered to be consistent with the purpose and thus is not a disproportionate intervention against the individual. In the context of tasks related only to police matters, information from foreign authorities needs to be provided to a greater extent than the legislation currently opens. As others have also mentioned here, this applies in particular to information that is necessary to clarify both identity and residence status, and perhaps also in other contexts. Right? That's why it's important that we also get in place to accommodate these needs. In the notes, there are some parties that are very concerned about privacy consequences in these contexts here. Of course, it is very important, but in the hearing note itself on changes in criminal law on privacy implications, there is no explicit comment, precisely because it is considered to be very restrictive. This has also been commented on in the Proposition in the light of the comments made by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation. So that's, in my opinion, all the reasons why we support this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e676	The proposal proposes a number of changes that can contribute to a better sharing of information between different state agencies and, hopefully, can contribute to less red tape and increased efficiency. There's something for which the Center Party is strong champions. I will not go into all the proposals individually, but I will briefly explain some of the principles that have been important to the Central Party in dealing with this matter. First, personal data must be processed with care. No more information must be collected than is necessary. The disclosure after the changes in this proposition must take place in accordance with good personal data processing procedures. In the setting, the centre party, together with the Working Party and SV, has called for a clearer assessment of the privacy consequences. These assessments must be central to the preparation of procedures and regulations for the amendment of the legislation currently being adopted. Some of the hearing bodies have requested the solutions to be followed for the disclosure of this information. The Central Party, together with the rest of the Committee, assumes that the police and the UDI together find the most appropriate solutions, while at the same time respecting the need for efficiency and privacy. Some of the changes are merely clarification of the practice or intention of the law. Access to the passport and ID card registers is concerned with ensuring that case handlers at the police application points for passports and ID cards, and the foreign station application points for passports, have access to ID card registers when processing the application for passports and ID cards. The changes that are now being adopted were also the intention when the passport law and the ID card law were amended. The change in the ID card law on optional travel rights is a change based on common sense. Persons who, for various reasons, cannot obtain or do not wish to have a travel right or who know that they may be refused the right to travel if such an application is made shall be able to apply directly for an ID card without the right to travel. This is a sensible change that, hopefully, can eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. Finally, I would like to stress once again that privacy needs to be taken into account, and that no more information needs to be collected than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e691	I would first like to say that I hope this means that the ID card solution will come soon, because we have really waited a long time. The SV, like the government and the majority, believe that it is important that the police have the tools they need to fulfil their social purpose. We are opposed to the law building being applicable in matters of the Foreign Affairs Act, but with regard to the fight against crime, we have agreed that the police can make such direct searches. It's just one paragraph we're going against. We do that because the Data Protection Authority has had fundamental criticism of this, and it's our body to tell us when the data security isn't well-managed. It has to do with the sum of all this information that goes across and across and everywhere. We all agree that we assume that this is to be done in the right way, and that privacy is to be protected, etc., but it is ultimately quite incomprehensible to ensure that it does, and that the information is not used for any purpose other than that for which the information has been obtained. It has been decided by the Storting, but how to deal with it with as many warrants as possible is very difficult to understand. We have written in a note that the UDI in its hearing response was negative for the police to search their databases, and that they thought it would be practically impracticable to do so. They pointed out that this should be done by increasing the use of existing electronic interaction solutions. It would be interesting to hear why the council believes the UDI is wrong in this case, that in these cases it could not be resolved that way. Then I would like to address the proposal from SV, which is in the setting, which concerns the fourth paragraph of Section 84a. There we want the police to be able to access information, but when they ask for it, and that they have to justify it specifically and not make direct searches in the matters relating to the Foreign Affairs Act. When it comes to combating crime, we agree that there can be a direct search by the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e702	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e707	Thanks to the Committee for its support for, inter alia: amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act which provide extended leave to supply information from the foreign authorities to the police and that the Committee has largely joined the proposal in the proposal. The police need information from the foreign authorities for a number of purposes. Extended and clear warrants for the provision of information are supported by both the police and the foreign authorities. The duties of the police under the Foreign Affairs Act are provided with both a right and an obligation to provide the necessary information. For delivery for other purposes, there is an opportunity but no obligation to disclose information. The proposal allows extradition to police tasks under the Foreign Affairs Act and for police purposes to take place in the form of direct searches. The proposal does not require direct application. It would be up to the UDI as a controller to assess whether to use this extradition method. If the technical solutions or other circumstances cannot ensure that the UDI can fulfil its obligations under the Data Protection Regulation, delivery will not be possible in the form of direct searches. However, the most appropriate and efficient provision of information, within the framework of the proposed legislation, is desirable. It is therefore assumed that the police and the UDI together find solutions to meet this need and that good and consistent extradition procedures are established. The proposed changes to the passport law and the ID card law are necessary as a result of the work on new passports and ID cards. All those who have expressed their views on the proposals have supported the amendments. The amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act adapt the grounds for requiring a police record for recruitment to the Public Prosecutor’s Office with those for employment in the police. There is no reason that there should be different rules for these areas. In addition, the Resumption Commission shall make corresponding changes after consultation. The proposal for changes to the grounds for requiring a police record has limited privacy implications. This is detailed in the proposal, in the light of the input from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e729	The Council of State said in its statement now that it is up to the police and UDI to find practical solutions to do so. I have gone through the hearing opinions of this law, where UDI very clearly says that they are negative to direct search, and that it will be impracticable. They also say that the provision of information for police purposes should also be done by increasing the use of existing electronic interaction solutions. Then it's a little strange how you think that such a direct search should be possible, if the sea level says it's impracticable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e735	This is about what solutions you now have, and what solutions you can get in place. We are committed to meeting the police's desire for direct search, if that is feasible. But it assumes that the two floors talk together and find good solutions. It is not unusual to have different views in such a hearing, but we find this appropriate and effective, if that is possible. And that's what we've reserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e740	But practically impracticable is not a point of view; it is a fact. So the question is, is it feasible or isn't it feasible?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e745	Yes, our opinion is that it will be feasible, if you find solutions – it requires that you work with solutions to make it feasible. It is our opinion that we are asking for a legal home that can be implemented – in order to be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e751	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e769	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e776	The proposition we are now discussing suggests that internal control rules in a number of sectoral laws be repealed or amended. This is a follow-up to the new municipal law of 22 June 2018 no. 83, containing a new internal control unit. The size decided that the requirement for internal control of municipal obligations should be regulated collectively and collected in a new municipal law instead of in the various sectoral laws. This means that the internal control provisions of several sectoral laws are repealed. As part of the special review, relevant regulations have also been reviewed, and these are briefly referred to in the billing proposal to give a holistic image. The responsibility for internal control lies with the rental in the municipality, i.e. a responsibility of the local authority and an executive responsibility of the local authority. The new internal control rule of the Local Government Act shall replace the provisions of the special legislation on internal control against the obligations of the local government sector. The aim is to provide a better, more holistic approach and to bring together the regulation of internal controls for municipalities. With equal regulation for different sectors, the aim is to facilitate a more holistic approach to the internal control of the municipality and to strengthen internal control through more targeted internal control work. The objective of good internal control as part of the overall governance and management of the municipality is to provide good services within the framework of requirements laid down in laws and regulations. The Committee points out that in Prop. 96 L for 2019-2020 has been proposed a number of changes to the Education Act. These include: proposed several changes to the pediatrics directive on supervision. In the opinion of the municipal committee of the proposal under consideration today, it is proposed to include a reference to the local authority's internal control obligation under the municipal law. In order to ensure that the final legislative decision is correct, the reference to the municipal law will be incorporated in the proposal for a legislative decision in the recommendation of Prop. 96 L for 2019-2020. Only SV have their own comments and suggestions on this issue, which they may want to do for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e797	SV joins all the amendments, except one. It's about the Social Services Act. Both the State Health and Welfare Directorate, as well as the Municipality of Oslo, have asked that the internal control provision remain in this law. It is enough because this is a law to protect the most disadvantaged, and it is important that it remains in the law. And then we'll look at the experience in the future. This is about municipalities having good internal control systems and being a continuous system of good security. We're very concerned about getting it into place. Of course, it can also save a lot of time and bureaucracy when you have a very systematic approach to this. Then it's important to follow up the findings you have when controlling things. There, I think, it's a lot to pick up in many places, both in state and municipal activities, so that it actually becomes a result of the internal controls that are being done, that it leads to practical change, and that local politicians get a good knowledge of what comes out. We have a note that refers to the need to develop more trust-based systems than today, in day-to-day operation in the municipal sector and in state activities. In some cases, all these considerations are collapsing slightly — between how far to go in detail regulation, control and supervision, and the need for professional provision of services and what is done in practice, in a sensible and trust-based way. We have chosen to point out that it is important and essential for employees and users to have access to channels where they can inform about critical circumstances and offences, that what is happening there is being caught up in internal control, and that politicians are getting to know it. I think that's the only thing that can help you get better systems, and that you discover mistakes that happen. In the case of private kindergartens, we repeat the need for internal control not only to fulfil the content of the contracts, but also to have transparency in the flow of money, because here we know that there is a lot of money flowing out of the public sector and into private companies, except what is called dividends. I warn you that SV will vote against the recommendation V, which concerns the Social Services Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e813	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e829	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e836	As was referred to, this case concerns a proposal to postpone the demolition of the Y-block until Oslo District Court has dealt with the matter. A Joint Committee will recall the terrorist acts of 22 July 2011 that claimed more lives. This is what is tragic about the need to rebuild the government quarter and the fact that a wide-ranging debate on the level of security in a new government quarter has been held in retrospect to prevent something similar from happening again. The Committee also points out that there have been broad and open processes in the planning of a new government quarter and that for obvious reasons not all safety assessments have been made public. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of SV, points out that in 2017, KMD has addressed the Governmental Quarterly Regulatory Plan and, inter alia, that it has not been included in the report. concluded that the Y block had to be torn down. This majority points out that the Y-block demolition decision has its main reasons for the safety assessments carried out by a number of professional bodies, such as the National Security Authority, the Police Security Service, the Police Directorate, the Oslo Police District and Defence Building at the National Building of Competence Centre for the Protection of Buildings. The Committee also pointed out that a year ago some of this was discussed, where the Committee stressed that: ‘The terrorist attack on Norway on 22 July 2011 made it clear that Norway too is under threat and may be an objective of terrorism. Therefore, a safe and secure government quarter must be a main premise for the development of the quarter.» This was written by an overall committee when we discussed a matter on this a year ago. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of SV, also refers to letters of response from the Council of State on 25 May 2020, including: reads that: ‘Safety advice [is] clear that it is not possible to leave the Y-block standing and use it for ministerial activities. It is also not possible to leave parts of the Y block, the so-called C option.” It is therefore the majority's position that this proposal is not adopted, and then SV has its own comments and proposals, which I believe they will explain later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e861	Thanks to the case spokesman for a good job in a demanding case. The characteristic Y-block in the government quarter has great cultural historical value. It symbolizes an architectural epoch, and it contains two unique, integrated works of art. The art is to take care of, but the building must now give way. The care of security weighs heavily here. The beautiful building is by and large perhaps the country's most mentioned and debated building. It has not been easy to decide that this building should be demolished. There are several conditions behind the demolition decisions. The fact that the Hammersborg tunnel is under construction is probably the most important thing. Based on advice from Statsbyggen, Defence Buildings and others who have assessed the security, the solution chosen is to lower the Hammersborg tunnel by 5 meters. It is only possible if the Y block is ripped, according to State Building. The Y block was completed in 1970. It is drawn by Erling Viksjö and embossed with relief made by Pablo Picasso and Carl Nesjar. 20 years later, in January 1990, the Hammersburg Tunnel was completed. There's actually no tunnel, but there's a two-circuit concrete envelope, and there's this coal-verse Y-block swirling on the roof. The beams on which the block is suspended are rusted into the walls of the same sphere. Security is not a theme for extensive public discussion. But there is no deep-kept secret that the crunch of space as it is here makes it challenging to secure against attacks from the underside. We've been evaluated by new lines for the Hammersburg Tunnel, and they've been rejected. It's kind of a rough base. There are dense busses, and several buildings are on a yellow list of protective buildings, among others. The Trinity Church. The answer was to lower the Hammersburg tunnel by 5 meters, and to get it done, the Y block has to be removed. Repatriation of the government quarter is a large, expensive and complicated project. Work is in progress on building a new, open and green government quarter. State buildings must ensure the art on the construction site. Works for Carl Nesjar and Pablo Picasso should take care of and integrate into a new government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e876	Now nine years have passed since the terrorist acts of 22 July 2011, which brutally hit Norway. The planning of a new government quarter has already been going on for a number of years, and it is time for this part of the reconstruction to start properly. There has been a broad debate on the solutions to be chosen. Many have shown great commitment and thought that the Y block should be preserved. I have great respect for that, while there are other arguments that have weighed heavier in this treatment. One of the most important features in the construction of a new government quarter is security to prevent similar tragedies in the future. A number of professional bodies have been involved in the safety assessments carried out, including: National Security Authority, Police Security Service, Police Directorate, Oslo Police District and Defence Building of the National Centre of Competence for the Protection of Construction. The safety advice is clear that it is not possible to leave the Y-block behind and use it for ministerial activities. Nor is it possible to leave parts of the Y block, the so-called C option. For obvious reasons, part of the safety assessment for the new government quarter has not been made public, but the main rationale for the Y block demolition decision is the safety assessments. The centre party believes that safeguarding security is a fundamental prerequisite for building a new government quarter, and that is why we do not support the proposal we have to deal with here today. At the same time, it is important to stress that the Stortinge in previous treatments has decided to secure art in the Y-block. It has to be taken care of, and I am very much pleased with that. In the treatment of the reconstruction of the government quarter, the Centre Party has been very skeptical of the land standard used. There shouldn't be an office space for everyone, there should be open office landscapes, and this is something for which the employees are very sceptical. Studies show that working time is important for efficiency and to reduce sick leave. Not least, we have now received a new argument against open office landscapes, namely the infectious disease problem. So this is something that needs to be looked at again. Finally, I would like to point out that we are missing a cost estimate for a new government quarter. The centre party has been clear in the committee reading that we believe it must come to Stortinget in good time before construction starts in order to ensure that the Stortinget may have the opportunity to make any changes to the project in time for one not to risk delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e889	First of all, I'm very happy that we're getting the debate on the Y block up in the Storting, in all its width, even though the debate isn't really about and against the Y block, it's about whether the Storing is going to instruct the government to take a break in the demolition. That is what is at the heart of the debate. The debate on the Y block has been about cultural memory conservation, on the one hand, versus the safety arguments on the other, and it is important that we recognise the arguments from both sides. I'm not going to go into all the technicalities around this now, because I think that's been explained in the matter, up over several years in fact, and also by some of the previous speakers. Of course, when SV addresses this matter, it is not that we do not recognise the safety arguments in the case. We do that, of course, absolutely – just as it has come to light. I might be a little more doubtful about the July 22 referrals, because they contribute to a kind of moral stigmatisation of those of us who want to preserve the Y block. I very much want us to discuss safety, but not necessarily July 22nd and the victims there. At the same time, we believe that cultural memory arguments are so important that we need to look for solutions that can take care of both cultural memory aspects and security. There are many professionals in the debate in recent years who have thought that there are solutions for this. There's a very large public engagement in this case, and that's definitely also one of the reasons why we've chosen to take it up again in the Storting. There are many who are following this debate in Stortinget right now. At the NRK this morning, this case was compared to the Alta case, by a cultural commentator there, a decision that most of us have afterwards repented of and almost ashamed of. It has been a sort of search for modern, technically perfect solutions in Oslo over the last decades, that it has been prioritised in front of the historical and memorable of buildings. Therefore, there is also great support in the professional communities to preserve the Y block, precisely because it is part of a historical context of other types of demolition decisions up through history. SV acknowledges that the implementation of the demolition is now legal, it is important for me to be told. This shows both previous decisions in the Stortinget and previous court proceedings, in April. At the same time, even if the demolition is legal, it raises some challenges because in August the district court risks dealing with the issue of the legality of the decision at a time when the building is down. That is why this case concerns that we want the Stortinget to ask that we take a break in the demolition of the District Court in August. SV is going to lose this voting today, but at the same time I believe we are going to win. We're going to go into history as those who stood up for a building that most others will be ashamed of being torn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e908	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e913	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e918	The representative Petter Eide then brought up the SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e923	I started today by walking beyond the Y-block – again, as so many times before – and it still stands there, with the beautiful Y-of Viksjö, which highlights the Church of Threefoldness and makes a clear distinction against the Deichman library and with Picasso and Nesjar’s ‘Fischers’, with the frame in front of the High Block in the government quarter, which gives one of the most important urban spaces in Oslo. Removing the Y block is going to be considered a historical mistake. There is no doubt that this is a worthy building, and it was also about to be saved before the terrorist attack. That's one of the foremost things we have from around 1970. If it gets removed, we'll never be able to get this back, which is the foremost thing we have from 1970. To me, it's a little incomprehensible why we've ended up there. I've been following this discussion about the government quarter in the last eight to nine years. As far back as the concept selection investigations were made, the reason was too much that the safety assessment was to be completely dominating, and the solutions were thus locked very early. The architectural competition also showed with all clarity that there were too large areas to be placed on too small a plot, which is part of the problem we are now sitting with. Of course, security is an important argument, and the tunnel does enough for the Y block not to be used as an area for the department, but it can definitely be used. We also need to do a risk assessment and look for other alternatives. You can look at other options for better security of streets throughout the area, not just around the government quarter. We also need a project of flexibility, where we could look at solutions with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where the Ministry of Climate and Environment is today – had a more flexible project, which, after all, has to be expanded over so many years, including by a changing majority, and with a cost framework that we do not know. I believe that you have locked yourself up too early for one project and have not been able to look at it again. This is also happening at a time when we are increasingly looking at building needs to be reused and reused, including from a climate perspective. The Y block could well be a model project when we're going into a new time, where we have to re-use construction to a much greater extent. I have gone to the Y-block elections both in 2013 and 2017. As Minister of Climate and Environment, I was unable to postpone or stop a demolition, but as a representative of big business, I am going to vote in favour of SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e940	Everyone here in the hall should know that there are a lot of hot hearts and smart heads involved in the Y block. Among the dedicated we find Kjetil Torsteinsen, who has rewritten a famous Oscar Wilde quotation for the following: The community should be spared to leaders who know the price of everything, but not the value of anything. We are in danger of becoming the leaders, because the social, artistic and historical capital of the Y-block is invaluable. The Y-block is a very important symbol of the reconstruction and also the modernisation of Norway after World War II. After the occupation, it was important to return to a democratic nation, and the government quarter became an important landmark on this long road. The facility was proposed to be peaced in June 2011, as part of the National Defense Plan of Stadsbygg. On 22 July the plant was damaged, but the Riksantikvaren concluded that the conservation values were intact and that the building could be adapted to current functional requirements within a sound framework. That's Picasso. There are only two plants in the world where Picasso's art is exposed in public space in this way. Picasso gave this work of art to Norway because he was an admirer of Norwegian democracy – like me and others in this room. But at the same time, I believe that when a democratic level – in this case the government – overrides other levels, our democracy does not work as it should. Oslo City Council wants to investigate the use of the Y block. The Court of Justice shall hear the matter in August. Therefore, Red believes that the demolition must wait until the court has given its opinion. I believe that the repatriation after the war, the project of re-creating a democratic nation, echoes all of us, across – of course – from a political point of view. We know that the Y-block was standing when the dust let go after July 22, but by tearing the building we make ourselves more homeless in history than we had to be. Red will vote for any proposal that can ensure the preservation of the Y block, and hope other parties will think again, because there is no shame in turning around.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e956	Oslo is the political centre of Norway, but it is also the neighbourhood of ordinary people. In such a controversial case, it will cause deep wounds over a long period of time if you haven't even really figured out an alternative that the local population wants. Recently, a unanimous city council has stated that a requested government is going back to the drawing board. The municipality of Oslo clearly says that they fear a worse city for the inhabitants, businessmen and public travellers, and they ask the government to reconsider the project. This is a clear message, and I hope it does not fall for deaf ears in this room. We are now at risk of a mastodontic wall of nutritious construction, which does nothing positive after people have left their offices at four o'clock. It will make Oslo a less pleasant city with less urban life in the center. A majority of city councillors are also saying clearly that they are going against the demolition of the Y block. The Y block is not valuable just because of Picasso's work. Built is an architectural cultural tax in itself, which UNESCO, numerous cultural protection organizations, cultural memory experts, architects and a bulwark signed by over 50,000 people throughout the country also agree. The Y block was on the list to be saved by the Riksantikvarn when the bomb narrowed July 22nd. The cultural heritage is not owned by the government. There's something all Norway owns, there's something local people use these streets every day, owner. The demolition of the Y-block has been a premise for the entire planning process, although it has met strong resistance professionally from both the Riksantikvaren and the Byantikvaren, and therefore the option has not been fully or partly preserved and properly illuminated. Nor does this room see an economically reduced alternative with more reuse and less concentration of the building mass until we adopt the final cost framework, and that is to happen after the Y block has been demolished. To tear down the Y block also has an important environmental side. The government itself says in the Culture Environment Communication that recycling and energy improvement of buildings are more climate friendly than demolition and construction. Shouldn't the government's own building reflect that? Today, we are promoting two loose proposals, one to explore the possibility of downsizing the project both financially and physically, so that tearing down the Y block does not have to be a premise for the new government quarter project. We also ask that the demolition be suspended until the Storting has dealt with such a proposal. The Y-block must not be used for government and ministry offices. In a scaled-down project, the potential for conservation, rehabilitation and re-use may be within reach while ensuring safety. A scaled-down project may involve fewer new buildings and a spread of the departments. It reduces the need for protection. It also makes the city better. With that, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e973	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e978	It is almost nine years since we were hit by terror and the government quarter was destroyed. The representative of Moxnes spoke about repatriation after the war. For the government quarter, there is talk of repatriation after the terror. It is time we moved on to work on a new, green, open and not least secure government quarter to the joy of the city, the inhabitants of the city and of the country. I have a lot of understanding that there are many people who are involved in the case about the Y block. It's a building with many architectural qualities. It's a building with many cultural memory qualities – especially Picasso and Nesjar's art, which we're going to take care of and relocate in the new government quarter. Nevertheless, I would say that there has been a long, thorough and open process, in which all the different considerations have been weighed and evaluated, and the conclusion is that the Y block cannot be used for ministerial purposes for security purposes. When the representative Moxnes spoke about knowing the price of everything, but not the value of anything, let me remind you that security is just about securing those who are going to work in the government quarter, and many of them also worked there on 22 July 2011. This is not about costs. It's about security. In the Report option. St. 21 of 2018-2019 on a new government quarter expressed the following – so it was one year ago: ‘The terrorist attack made it apparent that Norway too is under threat and may be an objective of terrorism. [[...]] Therefore, a safe and secure government quarter must be a main premise — and I stress ‘main premise’ — ‘for the development of the quarter’. The government fully agrees. We have to return to a government quarter that allows future ministerial staff and politicians to be safe when they go to work, but there should also be a quarter that works well for the city – which should be open, which should be green, which should be available at the same time. It was also said by the representative of Moxnes that Oslo City Council has now decided that they want to look at the government quarter again. Let me remind you that in 2016 the City Council joined the concept that has now been chosen. That's what we've been working on. The choice of concept was made in 2014. The size joined in 2019. I understand the commitment we're now seeing, but it has to be that at some point a decision has to be made, and we have to move on. We've come to that point now. The demolition of the Y block is in progress and a new quarter is due to travel. I hope that we can also stand by after this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e996	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1001	As I said in my post, I respect and accept, of course, the legality of the decisions and progress that are now. At the same time, we are in the somewhat bizarre situation that Oslo is going to deal with this matter at the end of August, and they are therefore at risk of dealing with a matter at a time when the block is in ruins. How does the Council of State view the rather strange situation that the district court is invited to take this treatment at a time when the Y block is down?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1006	There was a request for temporary enrichment, which was dealt with in Oslo District Court in April, which had just intended to assess whether it was such that we should wait with the demolition for the main negotiation in August. The District Court gave state support at all points in its consideration of the issue of demolition to be stopped until the main negotiation in August, and that is what we are dealing with. So I believe that this is not a question of law, but of politics. We have had this matter up in the government, in the city council, at large, and everyone has taken a similar decision. And then it comes to a time when the seminar – with all due respect – must end and implementation must begin. If we were to go back to the drawing board, we'd still be going back many, many years before we got a new government quarter, which we all agreed we'd go back after July 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1013	I have not asked for a new seminar. I have, in this proposal, only asked that we postpone the demolition until the District Court has said its own, and I did not perceive that the Council of State answered that question. We risk that the tribunal will deal with the issue of the validity of the demolition decision and the validity of the regulation plan, because that is what they have to deal with at the end of August, at a time when the Y block is down. That's just the order illogicals that the state councils here add up to. Then my question is: Wouldn't it be more logical that the district court was given the opportunity to deal with the matter without any irreversible demolitions being carried out in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1018	I believe that I answered that question, because that is precisely why you are promoting the request for temporary enrichment. It is to confirm whether you have to wait for the main negotiation or not, and the state was given all the support on all points, and so we start the demolition. Although, of course, costs are not the most important thing in this case, there will be considerable costs in postponing. We should have started the demolition last autumn. It was postponed – because of course we have followed all the complaint handling procedures. We've had the case in a court of law. But I still believe that this is not a question of juss. This is a question of politics and belongs to this kind of democratic arena that we're in now, where politicians make decisions, and then it's my job as the Council of State to follow up the decision of the Storting. And in this case, a decision was made less than a year ago in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1025	I think it's interesting because on the one hand the Council of State says this is not fair, but on the other hand it's precisely the Council of State refers to when he's going to explain how this process has been fair, first and foremost. I think I'll agree with the first part. This is politics: it's a common cultural heritage, and it's a city that people use and live in every day, and it's actors that we usually use to listen to in these contexts, who are now opposed. I believe that there would obviously have been a good political reason – if not a legal reason – to postpone the demolition of the Y block until the district court has taken its decision. What are the political reasons for rushing in the last few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1030	I will protest that we ‘rusher’ this matter. This is where we've been for almost nine years. There has certainly been no rush, there has been a thorough investigation, there have been hearings, there have been recording meetings, and there have been debates. The choice of concept was made in 2014. When the draft selection investigation came, it was recommended that both the Højblock and the Y-block be demolished. A cultural-memory compromise, so to speak, was that the Højblok was going to stand, but unfortunately the Y-block had to be torn down because it is not possible to use it for department building. At the time, the Reichsantikvar Jørn Holme stated that he understood that safety had to be taken into account in that matter, and that the most important thing was to preserve the high block. Then I agree that this quarter must work well for the city, which I perceive the representative of Bastholm is concerned about. I believe that the Y block has many good qualities that I understand people want to maintain, but in urban planning it has never worked very well. Now it's going to be a green axis all the way down to Torggata Bad, and it's going to be fine. It'll be a park. There will be an open and accessible quarter, but there will also be a safe quarter for those who will work there, and we cannot ignore that in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1037	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1045	The background to this case has been so bad and difficult that it has almost been impossible to discuss these issues. I hear more people say there's been a lot of debate, but it hasn't actually been. I think that's because there's a lot of people who have traumas associated with this. I'm reacting a little bit if someone now thinks that those who have a different view of the Y block are not concerned with security, because that's not true. What we've been saying all along is that the premise that all departments, except for the Ministry of Defence, are going into this small plot, is wrong. There are some leads for both the urban planning and the preservation of unlucky cultural memories. It's hard to imagine how to do this on the narrow areas in a good way. That premise has led to the assumption that if the Y block is to stand, it must be used for government offices. It is obvious that it cannot, because it will not satisfy the safety requirements to be met. When we dealt with this matter a year ago, SV wrote in his comments that we assume – as it looks now – that one will become dependent on other buildings for the government's office needs in the future, and that they must of course be ensured then. It's going to be very hard to get all of this into one quarter. It is the premise – not the debate on security – that has made the unfortunate leaders who have led us to where we are today, and that makes an inalienable building in the process of being demolished. There's been a lot of debate lately, yes, and it's probably almost too late, but I think that, as I said, is because this matter has been so difficult to discuss. I think it hurts for everyone who has been affected by it. At least I had a soul thinking that all the physical traces of the government quarter after the reigns of the terrorist should have been removed, and that it should have been rebuilt as it was – simply because terrorists should not be city planners. Now it's not going to be like that, but we had hoped that the Storting would now at least be involved in preserving the Y block, because it's conservationable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1054	Both I and the rest of the Workers' Party recognise the commitment that is for the government quarter and the Y block. It's perfectly legitimate – of course – to have an engagement with it. Nor do we accuse anyone of not thinking about safety or not taking safety seriously. No one's supposed to say that. But it's not going to pass that the government quarter and reconstruction have the background it has. It's not possible to get past it. It's been nine years, but in some posts I hear and read – not here in the hall, but in social media and other places – the background for us to reconstruct the government quarter is now down. I'm warning you against that. It's dangerous if we say after nine years, yes, it happened, but it can't be a main argument. But that's what it is. It's the security that's the main argument. Five years before it narrowed, there was a discussion about shutting down the Grubbegat, that is, the way in which the terrorist used to place the bomb where he placed it. At that time, a wish from, among other things, had been promoted. State building that that street should be shut down. That is what was said by the political groups. Then they turned around in 2008 and said yes, but it was never implemented. So you see the consequences of that. I'm not saying that it couldn't have happened in another way, but at least you wouldn't have had the easy way in. There were many arguments in the Grubbegata debate that time, I've read up on whether or not to close it. You chose to leave it alone, and then we see the consequences of it. One main argument was that what happened couldn't happen. It was completely hypothetical; it couldn't happen. But it did. It was an animal-bought experience for all of us, and I think we simply have to do what we can to prevent us from getting new terrorist attacks of that kind in Norway. Then I mean: do what we can in an open society, as we want to have it. There are, of course, some limits, but we have to do what we can. As I said, with full recognition for those who think otherwise, I believe that the decision we are now taking is absolutely correct. It is also true that the suspension proposal from SV is not adopted. For me and us in the Workers' Party, this is very much about security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1065	When I redrawed, it was due to the contribution of the representative Andersen, who spoke about the premise for the decision, namely that the ministerial community should be brought together in a new government quarter. To say that, first of all, that decision was taken already in 2012, when SV was put in government. We agreed with that resolution, and that is because we had strict safety requirements at the time, but that we now have even more stringent safety requirements. It has not been very long since there was a rather fierce round in Stortinget on the perimeter protection of barley, which involved the National Audit Office and the Control Committee – if I don't remember correctly – and we got a new security law in 2019, which adds some leads to which Stortinget has wholeheartedly agreed, for how this should be designed. If one is then to sit scattered around the city, the closed streets lead to completely different security measures than the temporary placement around the city image does. Now I'm a rarity. I'm a municipal minister who comes from Oslo – that's not often what happens – and I'm a little busy with urban development in this city as well. I think it would be very unfortunate for the city if we had little fortifications spread all over the city, instead of being gathered in a functional departmental community that is adapted to a time when we also need to break down the departmental silos and work more across. It also suggests that you are co-located and can do it effectively. If we are to achieve the sustainability targets by 2030, for example, we need to work much more across sectors – and in particular management levels – than what we have done before, and a good place to start is that the departments are co-located, I think. So that premise is right there. That premise was made by the red-green. I agree with that premise and think that it will be a good security solution, but it also gives us an opportunity to design a quarter that will also work well for the city's citizens and for the city. It is important that public transport can go, that it is open and accessible, that it becomes green, and that we can attract more people than the government quarter has so far attracted. Because it's not the amazing urban space today that many people highlight, but it can be a good urban space. And unfortunately, this beautiful building, the Y block, has to fold into this, to make this work together. It is difficult to make these balances between different considerations, but the balances have been made and dealt with both in government, at large and in city councils, and all have reached the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1076	Obviously, having a local government minister from Oslo doesn't help keep a jewel of a cultural heritage in the heart of our capital. I think it'll probably be the representative Karin Andersen who answers what premises were actually adopted in 2012, but I also want to say that we have to acknowledge that the premise to assemble this whole building mass and almost all the departments in the same quarter is not for safety reasons. One has the ability to objectize several places in the city, and one has the ability to do so in a way that promotes city life. The fact that the municipal minister at all thinks that securing construction in our capital is a barrier to a living city life is, of course, out of date, I think. So it's possibly a price question if one wants to secure multiple places, or if one has to keep everything together. Keeping the building mass together means that you get extra security considerations related to that area, which in turn means that of course you can say that it's a premise, it has to happen that the Y block has to be demolished. That's the premise that's the problem, because that's what also makes a lot of people now concerned about preserving the art and cultural heritage of that building, not feeling that there was credibility in the arguments used. The process has been cumbersome, at least for a long time. That the government feels that way, I understand, and all of us feel that we are now really in twelve hours – there is no doubt about it. The question is whether there has been a process that people can live with once we've torn this building, among other things. because it is difficult to ask questions when the card on security comes, and in particular the story we have around that quarter. It's hard. That's why I think it would be politically very elegant to wait with the demolition until the District Court has taken its decision, because the District Court and the judiciary are the citizens' opportunity to test the decisions of the politicians in the judiciary. There are citizens, who are also important cultural heritage players in Norway, who have asked for an assessment of the validity of the decisions. I think we should have respect for that. The Y-block should wait to tear down, at least until the District Court has made its decision. I also believe, of course, that we should wait with the demolition until we have seen what alternatives the Stortinget is facing, and to the Stortinget we can also make a qualified decision on the cost framework for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1083	First, until the time when the premise was made: it's absolutely correct, but it's possible to think about it again. I tried to explain in my post that this case has been so bad that it has almost been impossible to discuss it, because it has simply been a trauma that has made it difficult. I have disagreed with that premise all the way. SV is not in government now, and then it is allowed to have a different view, and to try to put it in because we believe it is right. The council says first we're going to have an open and green government quarter, but if we have to have a department somewhere else in the city, there'll be attachments around. Should it be fastening, or shouldn't it be fastening? If it's fastening because one department is one place, but if it's in the government quarter, it's not fastening – this isn't happening. I fully agree with the representative of Bastholm, who says that it is possible to secure buildings elsewhere. The question is whether you can actually get this pinched. The council also says that you should now work more across the board, and then you must be together for one quarter. To put it like that, I don't think it's going to happen like that in the future. The premise that we might have learned after the coronary crisis is that you can sit almost anywhere and work together across the board. In this way, perhaps the government's estimate of reduced area needs is a little bit closer now with the experience of the coronary crisis, but that you work in a very complex and that way you're going to have more cooperation across the street than when you have to go over the street or two quarters to work together, I don't think that's a very important premise. As far as urban planning is concerned, Oslo City Council has taken a very important view of this – what is thought to be the best urban solution, namely that the Y-block should stand. The premise that it should be these massive, difficult buildings that now come there, which is the best urban planning solution, I strongly doubt. The problem that that premise has followed us all the way, is real, but we have of course mentioned it several times that it is wrong. It's also a reality that we don't in any way know the bill for what's coming on the table. In this way, there may also be a great need for a scaled-down project in the future, and that we as a magnification can at least see alternative ways of doing this, which can ensure the preservation of an inalienable building within cost frameworks that ensure safety, but which are nevertheless lower than what it seems to be now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1096	The President notes that the term ‘not applicable’ has previously been charged for not being a good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1101	First of all, I want to give tribute to Ola Elvestuen from the Left. I have been hurt to be very unmerciful to him, both in social media and in other media. He has not previously been ready for what he would vote, and I have taken him hard for it. I apologize to him in this room for that. He's landed on our side, and I'm very happy. He dares to break out of the government community with that decision. It's bravely done, and I think it's important that he gets honor for the position he's taken. I'm not going to add any more arguments to this debate right now, but I'm just going to comment a little bit on it. There's rhetoric of the kind: we're going to go back to this after terror, here we have to have the July 22 events as a premise. It's a type of rhetoric that's problematic for us that will keep the Y block. For those who want to tear down the Y block, the 22nd of July victims push ahead and try with that rhetoric to do something more morally superior, as if they take more into account this event than we think differently. We, who want to keep the Y block, are then stigmatized as someone who is not as concerned about the 22nd of July victims. I think this way of correcting the argument is problematic, and that, as my colleague Karin Andersen said, it has helped paralyze the debate and prevented us from discussing security on good premises. Instead of discussing security, we have been sitting and discussing the legacy since 22 July, and that seems to me to have contributed to disrupting the debate. I recognize, of course, that we are losing this case, but there will be a debate on it afterwards, and then I think we should discuss security and not July 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1110	Finally, the fact that we are going to go back to the government quarter after terror is not rhetoric, but a fact that we have to deal with. I basically drew myself back to the representative Andersen, who asked about the fastening or not. So, is the new government quarter going to be a fortress if securing departmental buildings around the city leads to their becoming small fortifications in each way? To that end, it is much easier to plan for an open, secure and accessible government quarter if you do it as part of a quarter that the state, after all, has control over than to secure construction that is already embedded in an existing centre structure. I share the representative Bastholm's commitment to a foreign city life, but I still think it would be unfortunate for the city to put in the type of security measures that will be necessary, around the city. And it's not just about physical security. In the debate on object protection, it became clear that it is also about securing itself against many other things. There is no doubt that the 2011 Police Directorate's recommendation to bring together all departments in one quarter was well thought out. That's why the then government agreed to it, and that ministers have later been standing by it. So to the Municipality of Oslo, which now wants to leave the Y block standing. They also want to use the existing buildings owned by the departments today, and they want to open Akersgata to traffic. In sum, that picture doesn't go up. It is simply a little elaborate consultation opinion. Then I believe that the City Council's 2016 opinion is much more precise and comprehensive for the decisions we are about to make. There's also a cost of sitting as we do. We're not going to ignore that. So far, it's probably cost about 5 billion. NOK in rent and temporary securing of the buildings in which the departments currently sit, and more will be done if we continue to sit there in the foreseeable future. For this matter of the case: when elected bodies make a decision, I believe that legalising the policy in the way it is proposed here is wrong. After all, it has been added to our representative democracy to take that kind of decisions, and when the decision is taken, to over-measure at several levels of government, I believe that we have one task, and that is to implement the decision according to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1125	I think this matter has been well-lit in both this and previous debates and had really not intended to take the floor for it. What made me take the floor was the post from the representative, Eide, where he said that someone pushed the victims in front of him in this matter. I feel that we have had a respectful and open debate on this matter, where no one in such an important matter has gone into the trap of pushing the victims ahead. I feel that some parties with good reason point to the background of what has happened. This could happen. It's a fact. We're all interested that nothing like that is going to happen again. Then security has weighed very heavily for the majority of the parties here. It's simply to take the experience further. You point to the importance of this, you don't push the victims of the tragic event in front of you in any way. I just felt the need to say that this is not how I experienced the debate in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, 8, 9 and 10 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1173	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1180	Then the day has finally come, the day when we are allowed to discuss predators again, the day when party boundaries are cleared out and we stand hand in hand to seek solutions – in each of our trenches. We always thank the Committee here from the Chair, polite as we are in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, but in this case there have actually been extra good discussions between the parties. In particular, I would be allowed to thank the representatives who have had a lot of patience with telephones from me about predators, at all times of the day. The parties have also met with a number of actors, in addition to the hearing, and set up on short notice to include as much as possible in the treatment, and it has been very good. I am also very pleased that we have a state council in the field that is seeking to mitigate conflicts, that listen and understand the challenges and the many facets that we are about to deal with here today. This debate is often dominated by extreme positions – yes or no, shooting or not shooting. The Nature Diversity Act is often in the shot line. Finding solutions and seeking changes that can contribute to better management and ensuring that predatory agreements are followed up is important, not primarily for us here in the Chamber – even though it would have been nice – but for those who relate to the framework we have set up, every single day. The geographical differentiation between predators and grazing animals continues to underpin Norwegian predator policy. That's the way it should still be. Clear zone management is important for the achievement of stocking targets for wild game while minimising conflicts and loss of grazing animals. There has been a lot of knowledge and experience in predator management over the years. This means that today’s predatory management has a high level of preparedness to deal with emerging situations, precisely given the two-part objective. However, it does not help in polarization. There is also the background to the proposed measures in this proposition aimed at reducing the conflict and polarisation of review procedures, such as: a politically independent intruder. For a long time, a number of questions have been raised as to whether the decisions taken by the Ministry of Climate and Environment have led to professionalism, and it is thus questionable whether political considerations have been taken into consideration in the exercise of discretion. A purely professional term could ensure a depolarisation of the predatory debate. Now it looks like there's not going to be a result here today. In addition, amendments to the provisions on emergency services have been proposed. Emergency workers may look easy on paper, but out in the real world they may need something different from the theory. It is therefore important to stress that in an emergency situation, decisions need to be taken quickly. Many of the hearing bodies expressed support for the change that is currently codifying the interpretation by the Supreme Court of being directly attacked. It will bring that provision into line with the Berne Convention. Today it is also the case that the municipalities do not have a legal interest in complaints concerning decisions on the killing of wild game. This is in line with the case law. Nevertheless, it is today that municipalities are already very much included in the assessment of complaints. That is why it is good that there is now effective legal remedies for decisions taken, based on the rules of robbery. We're dealing with more things here today. Together with this proposition, we have discussed two representatives' proposals, document 8:67, from the Workers' Party and document 8:77, from the Progress Party, respectively. These apply mainly to amendments to Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act. It's a paragraph that we in the committee have become familiar with in recent years. In this connection, I would like to inform you that the Government Parties will support the Workers' Party's proposal for a supplement in the second paragraph of Section 18, which says: ‘In assessing the take-off of wild game after point (c) of the first subparagraph, attention shall be paid to whether stock targets adopted in the Storting have been achieved.’;» We believe that this will to a large extent be in line with current practice, but nevertheless it is an important clarification, which should be incorporated into the law. Once again, I would like to thank you for the goodwill and the good tone of the parties between them during the treatment. So I hope – maybe a little optimistic – that this will continue in the hall here today. I finally take up the proposal from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1215	The representative Lene Westgaard-Halle then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1220	Today, we are dealing with three issues dealing with predators, and surprisingly, the Senter Party has not promoted one of the representatives' proposals. I am so lucky to be the case rapporteur for two of the cases. I must also thank the Committee on Cooperation, although perhaps some seem to have been a bit of advocating predators lately. But, as I said, it's not the Senter Party's fault, but we're glad they're coming. I believe this is a sign that the level of conflict around predators is high, and that the government has failed to bring the level of conflict down. I believe that the other parties will explain their views on these matters, but at the same time I have to say that it is good that a majority now finds that there has been a significant and increasing level of conflict between predator management and grazing, and that this has been particularly evident in wolf management. It is good that a majority now say that there is a need for changes and clarifications in predatory policies to bring the wolf population down to the stock target. It's important, and it's a clear signal to the government. Clearly, it is time for effective measures to be put in place to reduce the wolf population, which has been well above its number in recent years. This happens despite the fact that Storting’s agreement says that livestock on pasture should be safe in grazing priority areas. The settlement between 2011 and 2004 is based on the two-part objective, which means ensuring sustainable populations of both grazing animals and predatory game, while at the same time facilitating active grazing. Today, a policy focuses and priorities on predators, and in particular the wolf, much more than on grazing. We've seen a lot of examples of that lately. And the overall picture is that today's predatory game management takes far too little account of the business operators and communities involved, and it's clear that government's predatory policy is out of control. The centre party believes that predatory policy must now be given priority and that better management is in place. I think it is a pity that several of the proposals that are in place today, which would help to get a more efficient management of the wolf, do not get a majority. But it's a pleasure that more parties now engage in predatory politics, and that it might look like we're approaching a majority. But I would like the Labour Party to be involved in securing a majority of the proposals that have been promoted today by the Progress Party, which would provide a more efficient management of the wolf. As mentioned, there are representative proposals and legislative proposals, and the intention of some of the proposals is the same. That is why I find it regrettable that there has been no majority in favour of proposals which go on to make clear changes to Section 18 of the Nature Diversity Act. In particular, I would call on the Workers' Party to subsidize and support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Centre, which would provide a majority for a clear direction for wolf management further. In addition to these two cases, there is a proposal from the government to establish an independent complaint subject and to merge predatory areas – proposals that have rightly encountered great resistance from organisations and not least from the predators themselves. The change in the number of predatory game subjects is nothing more than centralisation of the predatory game management in Norway, and I am pleased that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are stopping the government's proposal today. But it is disappointing that the government is not willing to look at instruments that strengthen the predatory wildlife subjects, and to me, it seems as if you are trying to minimize the number of predatory wildlife subjects. That may be intentional on the part of the Council of State, because then he will have fewer disagreements. In addition, I note that the Council of State also has a desire to waive all responsibility for predatory policies that the government is conducting, by establishing an independent complaint subject. I can see that the Council of State does not want to sit in charge of an administration in which his party has made a complete chaos, but the creation of a looting object will not help to dampen the conflicts in the administration. Today it is very good that we stop the centralisation of the Left of the number of predatory game regions and their desire to renounce the political responsibility for complaints in the game management. But then I also have to express disappointment that today there is no majority in favour of proposals that would give robbers greater responsibility, and not least that we had been given effective management of the withdrawal of wolves. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1241	The representative Sandra Borch has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1246	The Labour Party believes that Norway has a separate responsibility to take care of predators in Norwegian nature and is committed to ensuring viable predatory strains in Norway in line with the agreed stock targets of the Stortinget, regional management, the Natural Diversity Act and our international obligations. The Storting has set targets for the predator species bear, gloupe, yerv, wolf and king eagle. The Labour Party will contribute to ensuring a two-fold objective for Norwegian predatory policies, ensuring the sustainable management of all the major predatory game species in Norwegian nature while at the same time preserving the use of the land areas by agricultural and domestic interests, as well as ensuring the rapid and effective extraction of predatory animals that become particularly close to the population and population in accordance with the Nature Diversity Act and the quality of human life. Some of the reasons for the high level of conflict with predators are perceived by many as a lack of willingness to comply with the agreed stock targets. There shall be a low threshold for the take-off of wild game in pasture priority areas and there shall be a high threshold for the take-off in predatory game priority areas. We're going to have a clear zone management and an effective regime for harvesting predatory game when it doesn't threaten populations' survival. The preparedness must and must be high in order to minimise the loss of grazing animals. For the Workers' Party, it was important to adopt a strengthening of the Nature Diversity Act § 18 which makes it clear that regional policy considerations are to be given significant importance when harvesting wild game once the stock target has been reached and it does not threaten our international obligations. In addition, the Workers' Party has proposed to introduce a new element into the Nature Diversity Act that the achievement of stock targets should be emphasised in the assessment of take-offs of wild game. We are, of course, pleased with the announcement of support from the government parties to that proposal. There are several important proposals for consideration. The working party is also not going to go for a further pooling of predatory wildlife subjects, on the grounds that local knowledge is important. Nor will we support the proposal to establish an independent complaint subject. The Workers' Party is in the position of the current Robbery Policy. The centre party calls for support for several of the proposals contained, but the Workers' Party is committed to the current predatory policy and the frameworks set out by the adopted pill game agreements, which are based on the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. The Labour Party has been involved in all the similarities, and that is the basis and basis of our predatory policy. We believe it is essential that all parties have respect for the goals set by Stortinget. The Labour Party believes that the leaders of the agreements will help to mitigate the level of conflict between the predatory game management and the grazing industries and will once again clarify that we expect the authorities and the administration to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1263	It has been an increasing level of conflict in predatory game policy in general and in wolf policy in particular for many years. The background is that there is still too much loss of grazing animals and other land resources in what is defined as grazing priority areas. In the last four years, after the wolf report came in 2016, the conflicts have largely concerned how to manage based on the decision of the Stortinget in 2016. In other words, there is not an enormous distance between the parties in the Storting when it comes to how we are going to have a wolf policy with a two-part objective – it is a broad multi-faceted one – but it is, therefore, effective enforcement of the policy that has our basis for the conflict. On the basis of the Progress Party, after leaving the government, several concrete proposals to contribute to the follow-up to the agreed policy of the Stortinge, in line with the 2016 wolf settlement, in line with the comments of the nutrition committee, and in line with the guidance that it has been supposed to be valid for the administration all the time. I don't think I call any secret when I say that this has been one of the things that has also given some dynamics internally in the government while the Progress Party was sitting there. This means that we had great hopes that we could use a new plurality in Stortinget, together with the Center Party and the Labour Party, to tighten up the management, so that it was possible to get a solution that gave a management in line with the 2016 wolf settlement. It's the possibility that the Labour Party today is well off when they don't vote for a single proposal beyond their own, which we have now heard is going to be supported by the government party by the simple explanation that everything is essential in line with today's practice. In other words, there is nothing new under the sun. It is then that I have to wonder about the debates we have had in the last few years, where the Labour Party, not only in the media after the media, but in the big debate after the big debate, has tried to fight with the government – either with or without the Progress Party as part of it – when they today culminate in standing with the government parties to continue that line in it further. For me, it doesn't go up, and if I'm going to be so free, I think I can't possibly be the one who hasn't understood it this time. When the government party so clearly announces that they prefer this alternative proposal from the Workers' Party rather than the proposals that are specific to exhausting the space for action in Section 18(c) of the Berne Convention and tightening up the understanding of Section 18(b) of the Natural Disaster Act, it is of course because those formulations would have given a tighter practice in the wolf administration, in my opinion, in line with the wolf settlement. It means, for all practical purposes, that the Workers' Party celebrates their presence today, is not to make any changes. There will be no change, as the government suggested, in the number of predatory wildlife subjects, and there will be no change in the review process. Everything's going to go on like it was before. It is to no avail that the Labour Party often thinks that it is good that everything is going to be like before, but at least it does the criticism we've been listening to for years, quite hollow when it comes to what's going on to manage the predatory game populations, to feed and to achieve the two-part goal well enough. So it's a shame that our suggestions don't get multiple numbers today. It's a shame that the Labour Party didn't use the possibility they had in their first post, to notify support for several of the things like that. had made the robbers more in control of their own secretariat, and that they had to justify killing more clearly, so that we avoided so many cases going to the courts, and that the state might lose. This is a wasted opportunity to tighten up predatory policies. It seems the Progress Party is a pity. So I just want to make sense of one thing that needs to be changed in proposal no. 1, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, in view of the fact that the date of application of this case has been moved. It says that we ask the government to come back late before the end of May. We realize that we're legally late. We propose that we amend the wording of proposal No. 1 to mention June in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1286	Once again we have a discussion about predators in this room. Once again, the result is that it becomes more difficult to be predators in Norwegian nature. Once again, the result is that it will be easier to shoot animals that are threatened by extinction. It's sad. We want other countries to take care of their endangered species, but we ourselves are not able to do this in Norway. Part of this case concerns the creation of a pillaging game complaint. SV has previously proposed the creation of an environmental complaint subject. In Sweden and Denmark, there is an arrangement with a so-called environmental complaint subject. Both countries provide the opportunity for civil society to review administrative decisions on the environment in a judicially-like body, in a rapid and non-excessive manner. In Norway, the costs of an ordinary case through the judicial system are so high that only exceptional environmental matters are at all when the courts. Every year, thousands of administrative decisions are taken with environmental implications. Decisions are taken by both municipal, county and state authorities. Natural and environmental considerations are subject to legislation and obligations to safeguard the common natural and environmental values as a general, overriding social interest. When our proposal on environmental complaints was examined, it was shown that it was not necessary because of the legal regulations for the environment and an opportunity exists to appeal to decisions up in the administrative bodies. Instead of creating a separate wildlife complaint subject, we in SV believe that a general environmental complaint should be established, where predatory matters can also come in. Then I have to bring a correction from SV to the committee setting. Here I'm not going to owe anyone but ourselves. In the setting, we are involved in amending Section 17 of the Natural Diversity Act. We are leaving that consensus and have today promoted our own amendment to this paragraph. We do not agree to assume that predators will be able to be killed when an attack is imminent. The purpose of the emergency protection paragraph is to permit the killing of game when it is deemed necessary to avert damage. In other words, it's an absolute paragraph that strikes into the worst case scenario. The emergency protection paragraph is not an opening — at least it should not be — in order to be able to trap predators who happen to be in an area of grazing animals. The immediate inclusion of imminent attacks in the emergency protection paragraph erodes both the emergency protection provision and, in particular, the general safeguard provision. It also obliges ordinary people to have an in-depth knowledge of the behaviour of different predatory game species and possible prey. The inclusion of judgement and knowledge requirements in this way will open up misinterpretations and misunderstandings and, in the worst case, abuse of the provision, which may result in predators and predators not posing any danger being shot under the pretext of the emergency only because the animals were in the wrong place at the wrong time and without any subsequent testing. Norwegian predators and predators are entitled to legal protection, they too, and they will not receive it if the proposed amendment is adopted. I'll bring up the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1307	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1313	As many people have experienced, many decisions in the Storting are behind the treatment we have here today. These are our obligations under international laws and agreements. It's also about having the best management possible given the different objectives we have with the game management. It is also the case that today we are dealing with an order from Stortinget that is about constantly stamping and making administration as effective as possible – whether it is about the economy or it is about the stock target, which it really does very often. The representative from the Center Party, Sandra Borch, so much that the proposition we're dealing with here today is Left's work. I'll refute that. First of all, it's the government that has presented it. Secondly, a robber's complaint is not something left behind or has been fixed by the program. This is about a government that has come up with a number of proposals that you put on the table, and where the Storting has actually asked how we can move forward in the predatory game policy in order to optimise management. One has put on the table some suggestions to do something about the predatory game regions. I noticed that the bulk of people don't want to do anything about it either, and you don't want a complaint like this either. It's a lot of stuff about the fact that one really doesn't have that big slingshot to go on here. It is arduous when a constant need for the judicial system to clarify the tight line on which one is going in terms of the stock target on which one is constantly seeking to reduce. When one has walked into the court system if it was too much to shoot two-three wolves, it is clear that the swirling monk is not very large. If we ask the Swedes on the other hand, with whom we have a joint management responsibility, they think that we are already taking a lot of care of Norway and leaving a great deal of responsibility to Sweden. In the case of emergency workers, it is important that we clarify it in view of the fact that we have a notified oversight case on it from the Berne Convention, that we can go further and fulfill it. It had not been nice for Norway to get in the situation that we had got a case against us. The international commitments are also part of this. Emergency workers are a guardian over predators and buffs, but there is also a need for the person who is faced with having to take advantage of it, as the representative Haltbrecken had to do, to make such a decision in a given situation. One must also be very aware of the decision taken and what may be the consequences for the individual. So I would also like to point out that we in predator management today have an effective organisation that is good at extracting predators when we ask them to do so. It's professional hunters, and we're less and less dependent on landowners and hunters who are not used to hunting large predators. It's important that we have professional hunters and can get out quickly when it's decided. A small part of the challenge today is the ongoing political debate, and it is in particular the predators who have the political front and the top in them. We live well on that, that this is a debate in democracy, that people out there are concerned about this, but it is also important to have the awareness of what space of action actually exists. I take a positive view of developments further and do not expect that we will have fewer proposals to take predators out with this administration. But in general, one also says that the space for action is not very large to change the relatively effective governance regime we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1336	This has been a little sad six months for Norwegian predator management. In February, the Workers' Party proposed to weaken the Natural Diversity Act in order to facilitate the extraction of wolves. A few weeks later, the Progress Party proposed the same thing and added that they would mark the entire Norwegian wolf population by GPS. Both proposals have enough explosive power in them to dramatically weaken the Norwegian predatory populations. Both proposals will break our international commitments to take care of Europe's predatory populations. Fortunately, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have not managed to agree on how they intend to weaken the protection of the diversity of species. It allows our predators to breathe out for a little while more. I am not surprised by the fact that the Progress Party and the Center Party would preferably have had standing permission to be killed by wolves and other predators. Nor does the Progress Party propose something as completely disconnected from reality as GPS marking the entire Norwegian wolf population as a kind of ‘micro management’ of its wild nature. But the Labour Party line both surprises me and disappoints me. It has been sad to follow the development of the party in predatory policies in the last few months. The Council of State has stated that it will be a breach of the Berne Convention to assume that the stock target reached will be sufficient to take predators out. When the Workers' Party is precisely behind its proposal, it means that the Workers' Party allows predators' contempt to trump the protection of endangered species and international obligations. I believe that their proposal does not contribute to less conflict and uncertainty – it reinforces it. Together with the Centre Party and the Advance Party, the Workers' Party now has a potential majority for a policy that can frustrate Norwegian nature management. So we could happen very quickly when the Progress Party left the government. I hoped for the longest time that they would not discover it themselves. It makes me seriously concerned about the future of the wolf, the yerven, the bear and the gaupa in Norway. And I'm seriously concerned about Norway's international reputation when some of our greatest parties are willing to break the Berne Convention in a short-term attempt to attract the voters. But it's probably not a choice magnet to keep the predators on the verge of extinction. Most people are not against predators at all. For example, six out of ten Norwegians are positive about having wolves in Norwegian nature, while only two out of ten are negative. Even in the wolf zone, there is a majority for wolves, even when you keep Oslo and Akershus outside. So to the government's proposal: the Greens vote against the creation of a looting denunciation. The fact that the decisions dealt with in the predatory game subjects generate many complaints, we believe, above all, is an argument for changing the predatory game names and improving management in other ways, including focusing much more on support for anti-conflict action on the ground, while providing far better framework conditions for the grazing industry to invest in what it needs to prevent losses to predators. As several of the hearing bodies have pointed out, an animal complaint subject will contribute to the depoliticisation of Norwegian predatory policies. Most environmental organisations believe that it is better to continue and strengthen the scheme of predatory wildlife names while strengthening environmental management. The Green Party shares the government's view that the level of conflict in Norwegian predatory management is high, but we do not believe that the issue of predatory wildlife is the solution. We believe that the solution, among other things: are located in fewer predatory areas, a better balance in the composition of the names and the establishment of an environmental complaint. That is why we are proposing today, together with SV, to set up a general environmental complaint that allows civil society to review administrative decisions in an environmental law forum in a rapidly and cost-free manner. I can now also report that I support the proposal from SV regarding Section 17 of the Nature Diversity Act, which I expect will be set up against the setting. Norwegian predatory management and other natural management must be based on knowledge, and it must be in line with international conventions that ensure the survival of endangered species, while at the same time providing food producers in this country, which ensure our food security. Neither setting up a criminal complaint nor weakening the Law on Natural Diversity is a knowledge-based policy that reduces the level of conflict. That is why I am pleased that these proposals are being voted down today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1357	The proposal and the two proposals that will be discussed here today deal with a number of issues, ranging from independent complaints about wild game, the legal basis for collapsing, the licensing burden and the radio marking of wolves, to the division of predatory areas, etc. I have submitted a number of reviews of the various suggestions in the letters of reply to the committee and will focus here on some selected themes. First of all, I would like to say that it is positive that the bulk of the population is prepared to follow my proposal to change their minds about the necessity of natural disasters. The Berne Convention has said that it can be open against Norway if this perpetrator is not changed, and in my view that would be very unfortunate for Norway. Now, as we're dealing with the proposition, we're doing two things. One thing is to modify the law in line with the practice of the Supreme Court. This is also referred to in the Committee configuration. The second thing we're doing is we're going to fix an incursion that happened when we transition to the natural disaster law. In some cases, I can't see that this involves any major changes in practice. However, these changes are necessary to bring the prisoners in line with our international obligations under the Berne Convention and codify current Norwegian case-law. So I'm happy to support it. The second proposal for the amendment of the law that we have relates to the creation of an independent criminal complaint. There's nothing in the plural. I think it would clearly dampen the level of conflict if an independent body with both legal and professional expertise dealt with the many complaints that take place in the game management. Today, party politics is largely made out of individual decisions, and I believe that both the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Government and the Stortinge should concentrate more on the overarching leadership in the predatory game field. Then someone would argue that this proposal involves disclaimer. I mean the opposite. With such a complaint subject, we would still have a clear political responsibility for the policy of robbery, but in the specific individual decisions, an interpreter of what Stortinget has decided on on the basis of professional considerations. The fact that the main critics of the review procedure in the Ministry of Climate and Environment now confirm that the review procedure is still going to be in the Ministry of Climate and Environment is in itself a good thing for me to accept – a bit difficult to understand, but that is the way it is. I settle down that the Stortinget, from the Green and SV Environmental Party to the Centre Party and the Progress Party, has unlimited confidence in my management of the Robbery policy, and I am well aware of that. A third theme that I can't avoid is the division of predatory game regions, because the majority now seem to be going for a solution where nothing is being changed. That is to say, the eight predatory game regions, which were divided on the basis of the existing limits of the 2004 predatory game agreement, are still to be indebted. Of course, I'll stick to that. At the same time, I want to make the Storting aware that there are quite a number of advantages that are now being lost than if one had chosen to change the limits. This applies, for example: the possibility of better zoning of predators and grazing animals. It applies more carefully and precisely to the management of predators closer to stocking targets, and that applies to administrative advantages, because one has no more names in the same state, as we now get. I think that all the parties would have thought that the bulk here had a different view, but of course stick to the multiple of them. Finally, I also want to pay tribute to the case leader, who has had a demanding job, but who has done it, as it looks today, in a very good way, and one has managed to land an attitude that I believe gives a good impression of what is the Storting's will, and that's after all because we're here.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1385	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1390	We heard the Green Party's representative and were concerned about Norway's international reputation because our proposal broke with the Berne Convention. Perhaps such claims are more involved in breaking down our reputation, especially when they are false. I'm not going to ask that question to the Council of State, but it goes a little bit in the same direction. Former representative Melby, now the Council of State, described our proposal as a simple solution, that the livestock win over the predators, and that the Workers' Party was on the slippery side of the Robbery policy to draw the Senter Party. Then we heard the representative Westgaard-Halle were up and promised support for the same proposal by a unified government. Is it so that we can expect support from the Left in the government in this matter too, or is it only partial support from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1395	Now, members of the government do not have voting rights in the Stortinget, but when the case-speaker announces what the government party will vote, I assume that is what all the government parties intend to vote in the Storinget. There have been a number of proposals on predatory game policy here in Stortinget this spring, also from the Labour Party. I've used very hard words myself, I'm told, against some of them, for example. that, in winter, the Labour Party agreed to instruct the government in management decisions that go in an illegal direction. I mean, there was every reason to criticize. I haven't used the same harsh words about the proposal that is made in this context, which now seems to have multiples. What I mean about that proposal is quite clear from my written reply to the committee. I thought I would say a few words about it later, too, but I would say that it is within the defense and within the international conventions to adopt that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1402	I would first like to congratulate the Council of State on a sensible political navigation, which ensures the Workers' Party's plurality of their proposals today. The question is, therefore, very simple: will the proposal which will then have multiples, and the consideration of these three matters, contribute to significant changes in the wolf management in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1407	I will then refer to my assessment of the proposal sent to the Committee. I wrote that I believe that the very wording of the legislative amendment far in the way reflects today's management practices. As I wrote in the introductory letter, the practice is that the different species are managed as close as possible to the established national stock targets. Then I also wrote that I think it would be appropriate to wait for a final judgment in the case that was handled at Borgarting Lawyers' Court in December 2019, which is now due to go to the Supreme Court, and for that reason I am advised to abstain from voting in favour of that proposal. But now it's up to the Storting to decide, and as we see it here, I think it's within the defense. I think it's going to reflect on the practice we're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1414	I thank you for your answer. It's clarifying how the interpreter of the Workers' Party's proposal will actually do it. Then the natural follow-up question is whether an assessor gathers that the proposals that the Progress Party and the Center Party are making today would contribute to a management about within the level we are at today, or whether they would have provided significant enhancement of the wolf management.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1419	Now there's a bunch of suggestions that we're talking about. The proposals that go on Section 18 are appeal decisions, where a government asks to come back, so it is really difficult to say exactly what it would look like. And then there are some suggestions that I think are – what to say – at least not in line with the predatory game agreement or rather the wolf entities, for example. a proposal to tighten in and reduce the size of the wolf's son. It is a proposal that would be contrary to what was the wolfeinde on Stortinget back in 2016, and I do so, among other things. For this reason, it is not recommended that Storting accept. It doesn't seem like the Storing either, and that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1424	That I have unlimited confidence in the work of the Council of State on the predatory matter, I do not think I fully agree, but I can say that I think it should be a political responsibility. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. When mention is made of the robberies agreement, there is a clear objective of how much wolf there should be in Norway. What we see today is that the stock of wolves under this government has been far above what it should be. Today we have several proposals for consideration which unfortunately do not receive a majority. But my question to the Council of State is: What measures has he planned to take to get the wolf population down on what the Storting has said should be the stock target? Will that happen this year? And does the Council of State not see that the policy he is pursuing is becoming a democratic problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1432	The policy of government, which has overwhelming support for the population through polls, and which also has support for the majority in the Grand Duchy, as it stands today, is not quite easy to see as a democratic problem. It's not that all of the Center Party is disunity, and where the Center Party is in minority, is in conflict with what democracy wants. So big has not yet been the Center Party, and I think we'll be happy for that. Then, over every year, we make different decisions to regulate the stock of wolves, including: by means of a licence agreement. We've made decisions every single year in the last few years, where one has taken out a good deal of wolves, among other things. of consideration of the stock target. Then we try to control the management so that we are as close to the stock measure as we can, both for the wolf and the other predators. We're over on the wolf, we're under on other predatory species, like the bear, but I mean anyway, the goal must be to be pretty close. This would make a significant contribution if the Stortinget today wanted larger major regions, for example. It would be easier to run precise management. But that's not what the Center Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1441	I want clearer answers, because when the Council refers to the predatory game likenesses, there is a clear measure of how much wolf it is going to be in Norway today. We see that under this government the number of wolves in Norway has increased considerably. It is not in line with the similarities adopted by the Storting. So once again, what will the Council of State do next year to bring down the wolf population to the target of the Great Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1446	The government is leading a predatory game policy in line with the different predatory game models at Stortinget. Unfortunately, it is enough for some representatives, among others. The representative Borch has a slightly selective memory when it comes to what is in the likes, for example: that the policy should be in line with the Berne Convention and that he should be in line with the laws of nature and that all aspects of such action should be taken into account. killing decision for the wolf. Still, it's not as high as you can get the impression here. We are above – it is of course a goal to come down further. But what I'm very busy about is actually that we can do the two-part goal, and not least that we can get rid of the loss of grazing animals. That's what I'm assuming is the Central Party's main concern and the main concern here – at least it should be. Fortunately, I can enjoy the representative from the Center Party that last year we had so low losses of sheep and lambs for wolves that we haven't had in ten years. All in all, the loss of lambs and sheep to predators is halved since the Center Party was responsible for politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1453	I have a simple and straightforward question to the Council of State: the amendments to Section 18 of the Natural Diversity Act that seem to have a majority here today will make it easier or more difficult to shoot endangered predators in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1458	The change in Section 18 that is expected to have multiples today will clarify and confirm the importance of Stortinget's agreed stock targets in the management. What is current practice is a long way to go, but I see that it is beneficial to do so with a view to disclosing and clarifying the legislation. If there will be any change in the practice of the predatory game subjects' administration and, ultimately, in what the courts may mean, I can't run the site here and now. But as I see it, it's within our international obligations, and it'll clarify what the Storting wants, simply to pursue a policy that allows us to be close to the population targets. So do I. And it will, as I also wrote in the letter to the committee, reflect by far on today's management practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1463	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1470	Some of the biggest democratic markings we've had in recent times in Norway have just been to follow up Storting's decision in robbery management. Particular attention has been paid to the lack of follow-up by the right-hand government to the stock target for wolves. Sometimes faulty production is made as if the demonstrations were against – possibly for, then, in the opposite direction. That's not right. It was about following up a stock target that the Stortinget had democratically adopted, and that is what we are getting into today in the form of the legal text, so that there is no doubt that the right government and Erna Solberg, regardless of which climate minister is responsible, have a duty to do, and that is to follow up that stock target of four to six young people as regards the wolf annual in Norway. What is adopted today, as I said, will be a clarification of the reconciliation the Workers' Party has been involved in making, and this will mean that the government will have to follow up the stock target in the coming winter. So simple and straightforward is the matter we are dealing with today. Likewise today, the Storting confirms that this is a political responsibility. Erna Solberg has tried to get away from this awkward situation of creating a so-called looting game complaint subject, which would red tape the policy we believe is a popular responsibility, and which the government is responsible for. There are a lot of people who are happy to be stopped today, and it is therefore good that there is a broad majority – no matter what one believes in the policy of robbery – who say that it is of course the responsibility of the People's Council to follow this up in the way that the Stortinget decides to do it. That's why this is a day that's going to take us forward. The minister knows what job he has to do, and it's following up the stock target. It is a democratic decision, and no matter what you think of it, it is at least a stock target. It's not for or against, it's a stock, and that stock has to be reached. That marshall is given by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1481	In the reply letter from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to these cases, they say that there is a low damage potential for wolves outside the wolf's son. What we see is that where there are wolves, there will be damage, and there will often be great damage where there are grazing animals. That's why I think that the answer is a little strange. We are now fully aware of this in Uppland. The later years, as it is filled in the wolf's son, the increasing loss to the wolf outside the wolf's son, in pasture-prioritised areas. For the first time there is a wolf under license in Uppland – three. If the wolf is radiolabelled or not, it is a potential for damage. There's a reason we're being tied up for a dog. There are increasing observations of wolves. In the last few years, there has been a continuous fall in wolf damage, and not least now in ours. This is not a good development. So there was this with the change of license period for wolf, which was out on the ears. The hearing concerned extending the licensing period, extending it in the spring. But the answer was to shift, and the start was from 1 October to 1 December. It is unfortunate not to see the licensing of the wolf in conjunction with when hunting other game and out. That is both practical and sensible. Now there's a lot of focus on wolf, we've now dealt with two things about it, but I want to name you guys, which do big damage in several areas in Norway, and which are far beyond the goal. So one might say that one has luck with the predatory game management, but managing is just to manage. It's an experienced training of getting help for the extraction and regulation of the population for all the predatory game tarts, including yours. That's what leads to an increase in the level of conflict, and that's where there has to be changes. Do not shift responsibility from a political level or merge predatory regions. The conflict level is not resolved. The representative Ketil Kjenseth pointed to a tight line, but it's probably the left to span that line. The predators should not be political, as Mr. Kjeseth was about to say, they should manage according to the size of the game. It is the Stortinget that is going to run the policy, and the robbers are going to manage it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1494	I'm just going to give you some general considerations. I cannot go into the details of all these suggestions – I would have gone far beyond my speaking time. It is most likely to be seen as a sigh from me when I look at suggestions from the Center Party, among other things. The fact that the populist Party of Advancement is cheering this up is not surprising to me either. I'll take the Senter Party first, with its agricultural connection. The buffer loss argument is still being executed. I'm a marine member of the Nature Conservation Association. I'm a member of the Small User Team. It's pretty easy for me. I believe it is possible to achieve the two-part goal of Storting very well if we wanted to. If it were a wish, this wouldn't have been a big problem. But there's obviously someone who has something to do with making these tip formulations and creating these walls between the different views of predators in Norway. Maybe it also gives some coherence in some camps. To take it first: within the wolf zone there is virtually no loss of sheep for the wolf. Of course, it's because there's almost no sheep there – in that case they're inside fences. Then I would say that there is no particular difference between whether there are three, six or eight flocks within the wolfessona. All professional studies show this. Why does the Senter Party not understand that they need all the support they can get from the other agricultural party here on the Stortinget, from SV, for example, and from the whole environmental movement, from all those who want the rural agriculture, those who want short-range food and all that we fight for – living communities. I am quite sure that the Central Party agrees with us that it is the WTO, the EU, import protection, etc. which is the great threat to Norwegian agriculture. It is not this very small part that predators pose a threat to Norwegian agriculture, which is crucial. This, I think, the Center Party knows deeply inside, and it's sad that this isn't admitted, and that one doesn't build alliances. What I'm most concerned about and saddened about is that the Workers' Party, as an international party with, among other things. The leading internationalist Espen Barth Eide begins to deal with the Berne Convention, an internationally agreed agreement. I think that's very sad. It is probably true that the Council of State says: it is not as big a change as will happen in practice with the proposal that is being adopted here today, I think, but it is a signal in itself, and it is frightening that it comes from the Workers' Party. I'll elaborate a little bit more in another article.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1507	As it was said quite clearly by the representative of Runar Seestad: we are at the robberies agreement. It is balanced and must take care both of the care of predators and of those who bear the main burden of having predators. That's why it's important that we trust. When we experienced here a few years ago that thousands of people were standing outside the Storting and promoting it – I kept saying – the radical demand that the Storting's decision be followed, there is reason to have little humility. Some of the reasons for the conflict in predatory game policy are, of course, the very impression that we have had government councils in the past that have provoked in such a way that people could not trust to follow the comparisons. We're asking people to live with the four big birds of prey, and we're going to keep doing that. But then they must be able to rely on the fact that once the stock target is achieved, yes, we are also in the process of achieving the stock target. That is what the conflict has been largely about, and that is the background to the proposals of the Labour Party. Because we've been met by former state councils that even if the stock target is reached, we can't take out animals because there are other parts of the law that make sure we don't have a warrant for it. So now we're going to have an independent authority to be able to confirm that Storting's decision is to be followed up. Then I am extremely surprised at the Advancement Party, which writes in its comments: ‘In the view of these members, it is not good for the Storting to interpret the interpretation of the law through post-work.’ No, precisely – that is why we are proposing a change in the law. Because then it's no longer a post-work; it's a law formulation with its pre-workers. Some try to represent it as if the Workers' Party has changed course and become more opponents of predators. No, it's a honesty that we're going to stick to the goals we've been adopting, but then they also have to be respected once the goals are achieved, precisely because we want the moderate forces, which are, of course, in a significant majority of this society, who want the wild, but who want control of the population, are the good forces we have to play on, and not fire up to conflict between the extremes of this debate. That's why I'm glad that today it seemed as if we could get support from the government parties, correct with an interpretation that this would in any case be our policy, while what is therefore the reality, is that previously no stock targets have been an independent criterion in the law. Now it becomes an independent criterion in the law [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1523	As former President, the representative knows well that one must stay within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1529	From the pulpit here, it's used expression like sad, sad, sad and populistic. But what makes me sad, sad, sad and sometimes called populist is the lack of understanding of the challenges that each individual has when they miss a lot of sheep – year after year. When we are politically elected, we are the ombudsmen and wives of those who have voted for us, and of the areas we come from. They I talk to from grazing, say they can live well with you, but not with loss to you year after year. It has been said by a number of speakers here today that we are going to follow what the Storting has decided. I am pleased that the Council of State was also clear that what the Stortinget has decided he should follow. When the stock target for you is far above, and there are several places where the environmental management needs to help to get one out of the licensing quota, get a limited amount of damage and bring down the level of conflict, then one actually has to do it. But today it is not. I come from a municipality where I know that the gardeners are now really counting on the buttons if they are going to lay down – they are bordering on Møre and Romsdal – and we really need to understand that. Then the question will be, Have we been happy with the predatory game management? Yeah, we're happy to get the herd of yerves up, because it was almost not that yerves in the 1970s, but what we don't have luck with is managing him, so that one can actually live up to the two-part goal. What we have experience is that if we've targeted the extractions in an area and maybe get rid of the one thief that does great damage, it's fun. It's management. But it's when you don't try to limit the damage, you get the level of conflict. I think this is the responsibility of Stortinget and the administrator.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1540	Once again to the Labour Party's proposal, starting from the outset: if it were my belief – or that the government council to manage this had confirmed it – that this would give a significant change in practice in the administration with the decisions proposed by the Labour Party today, we would of course have voted for. But that's the opposite that happens. The working party suggests that it should affect the management, but claims that there will be no significant changes for those who are going to follow it. That impression confirms what we've seen throughout this treatment. In 2016, during the discussion of the wolf report, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party were represented by the discussion in the nutrition committee behind comments such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The majority of the committee would stress that the stock target should be perceived as a minimum and maximum target and that this has been achieved when passing 4 and it should not exceed 6.’ Now, with the laws that are coming, you say that the administration will be like today, and now we're at the top of eight. In other words, one today goes away from the understanding of what the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party agreed to say in 2016. One stays out of the notes and adopts a legislative wording that is seen for all practical purposes as adhering to current practice. Then we are left with the fact that we spend a couple of hours today and a few weeks with committee proceedings not coming one meter further, and we are going to see the same ongoing level of conflict in the wolf policy. What's worth noting is that the government knows they're doing this. It's open and honest. But when one hears the Labour Party representatives in the hall, it sounds like they're imagining that they're doing something other than actually tightening up the wolf management. They let that chance go. It's not in the pile. The government party is voting for the Labour Party's proposal because one with it, for all practical purposes, will continue with today's practice, and they are voting against other proposals, which would have changed him. Nevertheless, the Labour Party believes that today they are making a change in the law that changes the wolf management. One thing is to be persuasive, but here the Labour Party is acting against better knowing, while they're trying to give the impression of something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1556	Firstly, I would like to confirm that the Left vote for the Workers' Party's proposal, so it is not the right in the government that does. So to the representative of Aud Hove from Uppland, who says it's being stuffed with predators in the sona. That's not quite true. So now we're discussing a stock target for wolves that in the justice system is going to be one, two, three -- is that one, two, three too much? That's now one thing. But the level of conflict is also exacerbated by the pressure of abduction of established family groups, and it opens the way for young animals, reptiles, who have easier access to grazing animals. There's no good solution here. There are several ways to think about conflict mitigation, and it is also to have established family groups that learn to use the environment that is without going to domestic animals to get food. And we see a pretty big difference in that as well. This is for the Central Party, because Aud Hove is following up on saying that the policy is to be determined on the Stortinget, and the predators are to be administered. But as it is today, the level of conflict is just as high out there in the predatory game subjects, and they are led – largely – by the Central Party politicians, and they are pulling up the level of conflict in this regard. It's also part of this. If you really want conflict mitigation and want to manage, it's possible to make it smarter than today, where you're just looking to polarize. Yes, we have had some striped animals in my neighborhood on the west side of Mjösa, around Gjøvik, Toten, Land, but it is also the case that the wolves have been taken out. We have effective management when these are discovered, when they're tracked. There shouldn't be a wolf outside of that son, so they're already taken out. We remember the situation a few years ago when we spent quite a few weeks taking out a wolf in Hurdal, at Totenåsen. Getting it out early and not getting it into the grazing season there is important. I encourage the Center Party to be involved in the effort we are now trying to have – collect the rows, manage the layers, find a way to live with both predators and grazing animals on and manage according to the zones and with the tools we have. For Norway, it has become very good to manage – that is my claim today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1569	Since there have been many articles about this change in law that seem to go through, and I also got a lot of lines about it, I thought that I would deepen my view of it towards the end of the debate – that is also said. I think that the proposal that is intended to be agreed will, far in the way, legislate what I believe is practice, because we focus on the stock targets when we're going to make assessments of killing. So it's a different matter that one between the parties here might have different views on the extent to which the government places emphasis on this and that in the administration. There may be disagreements about this, but I think it is obvious that we are staying within the current looting agreement. And as the Storting doesn't seem to want an independent agency to go in and assess these questions, but will also give me further confidence in managing it, I get back to appreciate it. That is why I did not see the need to make a change in the law. But now the promise goes through, and I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to say that I have some sympathy for the desire to incorporate this into the law, because the law will clearly be more understandable, it will be more pedagogical, a central theme for predatory birds will come in, and one will underline the importance of the agreed stock targets in the Storting. However, when it comes to the basis for killing, I would like to stress that natural disasters and administration must of course lie within the framework of the Berne Convention, which lies as a central part of the various forms of predatory game. This means, among other things: a failure to give rise to an interpretation of the laws of nature which do not comply with that Convention. For example, it will. This means that a file target cannot be an absolute condition to manage, but it can be an absolute condition to which an emphasis and emphasis is attached in the management. As already mentioned, stock reduction and stock reduction are an important part of the assessments we make, and as the predators make when making decisions. Now, if you change the laws that indicate that stock targets are part of your assessment, I'm going to pay attention to the issue of order, and I'm going to pay attention to the fact that the stock measures are, of course, both sides. This includes, inter alia: when one is above the target, and when one is below the target. In a previous debate here on 5 May on the investigation by the National Audit Office of wild game management, the Chairman of the Control and Constitutional Committee, who is also a co-rapporteur here today, made it clear that the populations of wild game are as close as possible to the target population and that it requires action, both for the populations under the target population and for those above the target population. I am of the same opinion and believe that it is an important point to underline in the debate here today. Finally, I would like to mention another important point, and that is that when I have advised the Storting not to make any different changes now, it has, among other things. to make sure that we have an ongoing legal case in which the State has been the subject of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law, and the proceedings are now to be brought before the court of the Supreme Court. There will be a few useful legal clarifications. I've been worried that the Storting would begin to make major changes, so that the value of this clarification would be less, but I can't see that will happen with today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1586	First to the representative Borch: she says that the wolf population just grows and grows. It has done so partly within the wolf zone, because of the considerations we have taken to the Berne Convention and to the Nature Diversity Act. Now that's the way it is. But then the question to the representative Borch is, what does that wolf do within the zone? It would be nice to hear the description of the Centre Party. What's the wolf doing there? I wish I could hear that. Is that because it eats elk? I don't think the Center Party will want the wolf to become a vegetarian. It doesn't match their program, and it's not that easy to get to, either, I think. What I think is sad now is that we get proposals on proposals that put endangered species under pressure – constantly: liberalisation of emergency protection, extension of the licensing period, restriction of the small wolf zone that we have, GPS marking of all wolves. Is it going to be some kind of new livestock, this? Maybe we should have tapes on the wolves? It must have been something. In fact, we have already adopted — or introduced a practice, including administrative — withdrawal of you, which many seem to be quite bad, animal protection. We've been hunted for bears. It would have been unheard of a few years ago to have it. I think happy Mikkel Fønhus, our wilderness writer, would have turned to the grave if he had known this. I must say that we are now positioned in a strange corner of Europe – not geographically, because there we are, but with our attitudes. We have a rare way of managing red-listed species – endangered species – in which. We've set a maximum ceiling, which everyone here, at least the majority in the hall, is trying to hesitate, regardless of whether we have international agreements, whether we've had an amazing natural diversity law, for which we fought for a long time. And then we don't have what we should have, a minimum number for rosin species. We have that for other species we have to take care of. I must say that I think this is sad. And I've requested many times, including from changing state councils, more information where there's an obvious failure in both biological knowledge, migration patterns, whether there's reason to fear the wolf and other predators, etc. That's what I've asked for many times. I would like now to be more focused on professional knowledge than on those who roar the highest. Have you heard about the climate threat? Think about it if you fixed yourself up a little bit after that and used your commitment there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1599	The size has made more decisions in the field of predatory game policy that have proved difficult to follow up, and I expect that it is in everyone's interest that the will of the Storting should be done. I've been in doubt about that when I hear more people here, but now I'm more uncertain. One of the objectives has been to mitigate conflicts. If there's something we can agree on, that's exactly what we haven't been able to do. Then one would believe that one realized the need for change, for better management. The Labour Party, which has expressed great dissatisfaction with government policy in this area, is voting with the government today. On direct questions, the Council of State answers that the proposal of the Workers' Party is leading a long way in the current administration. So that's not a change. This means that when we have completed this matter today, the status is very simple: there is no change. And is that the goal? Yeah, maybe for the government, but I didn't think that was the goal of the Workers' Party. Why, then, does the Central Party support this proposal? I want to challenge them on that. What do they think about supporting this proposal when the Council of State so clearly says that it will not bring about any changes at all. That's what I want to hear them defend. So to Dag Terje Andersen – it was really very good that he signed up on the list of speakers after me – because he says that we are about to fire up the debate. If you've followed a little bit, you don't have to fire this debate, because here's the full guy. That's the situation of the day. What we're trying to do with these proposals is to dampen that conflict and bring it down to a level that allows both the grazing industry and the predatory game to function out there, and to follow up the decision that the Storting has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1610	I did not know myself at all again in the so-called quote. What I have shown is that there is a heated debate, and I have pointed out the fact that some of the reasons why the debate is heated up are a global criticism from many, including the Storting, of the follow-up of the former statesmen to the policies adopted in the Storting. I stand by that. But the person who really made me ask for the floor was Jon Georg Dale. It's quite true, as he said, the Storting has said that it should be between four and six flocks. The point is that it has not been followed up. The Storting has given its interpretation of it, but that's exactly what is post-interpretation of the law. And when we believe that it has not been followed well enough by the government, we propose a change of laws to clarify in the law the same thing as the Stortinget has said in majority decisions. So that gives us a base. I heard the representative Halleland now saying that the Council of State has said that that paragraph is irrelevant. There's no doubt that there's going to be an independent home based on the stock target. We may have suggested this in the first place for reasons of clarifying the Storting's intentions towards the Council of State, but it is also important – if cases were to be brought before the court and any decisions taken by the Council of State on possible killing were to be challenged legally – that the law states that there is an independent criterion to be emphasised. Several times we've met in Stortinget from former state councils that the law sets an obstacle to Storting's intention that the stock measure should also be a roof, i.e. the six flocks. It has been met that the other paragraphs of the law have hindered it. Now we give an independent home. I am pleased that the current Council of State says he has an intention to follow up what has been the intention of the Storting, but I also realized that he said clearly that Storting's intention was made clear through the law decision. We want to provide a basis in the law to take into account that it can be common when the stock target is achieved. That home doesn't want the Advance Party to be a part of giving, and I think that's a disappointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1623	The representative Aud Hove has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1628	The level of conflict was mentioned here – the predators are those who create the level of conflict. I think I'm a little bit of a claim, because I haven't seen a torch for the predators yet. On the other hand, there are several torches against the government following the decision on the collapse. The dance in the robber manese was someone who said. He's here, in Stortinget, and I think he's full of vocabulary and misuse of statistics and reports and too little focus on those who have to live with the problem. We've been listening to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1633	I was reminded that the case rapporteur has unlimited speaking time, and that is good. But I also responded to the Council's points in the reply code exchange instead, where he said that the loss of grazing animals has gone down. It may be true in some areas, but since the creation of the wolf zone, for example, the use of pasture for grazing animals has fallen – there are 60 pst. fewer grazing animals there today than it was just a few years ago. In Trysil there were 4,300 sheep grazing a few years ago, now there's 300 left. So what the left has done in government is to turn the wolf zone into a wolf reserve, and that was never the intention either. So a small explanation of vote: the centre party supports here today all the proposals promoted by the Labour Party and the Progress Party. I would like the Workers' Party to be even clearer and to support the proposal that the Advance Party has promoted, which concerns the Nature Diversity Act. At the same time, the Centre Party supports any proposal that can move us in the right direction. I am also not comfortable with what the Council of State has said and his interpretation of the wording of that proposal, but I am absolutely sure that if the Council of State does not follow this up, then we have the Workers' Party with us to promote new proposals in the Stortinget already in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1644	Robbery policy is subject to repetitive, not to say year-long, conflicts, conflicts that unfold in tension between those who live, live and feed the predators closely, and those who are set to manage the adopted predatory policy of the Great Britain, namely the government. Poultry policy is a conflict. The size has worked to find measures that can help mitigate these conflicts. The challenge arises when the government does not comply with the Storting's decision on stock targets, but sticks to a stock target that has been far above the Stortinget since 2015. Challenges arise when the government fails to comply with the Executive Director of the Grand Duchy to take care of damage to crops and domestic animals or other public health and safety reasons and public interests of significant importance, as stated. § 18c. Challenges arise when decisions by predators are repeatedly pushed aside and complaints are more marked by training and harassment than by effective proceedings. The government's response to these conflicts we got with this bill proposal, and it can be said to be nothing but a provocation. The first provocation is to centralise and consolidate predatory wildlife subjects. This is done despite the fact that a majority of the hearing bodies are negative, despite the fact that the local anchoring, the composition and the knowledge of these subjects are probably one of the most conflict-relieving measures we have today. We have, as the representative Hove said, seen no torch against the decisions of the denominators. A centralisation of these names can be called nothing more than a further alienation of people living with predators close to life. The second provocation is to establish an independent complaint subject that transfers policy to the anonymous administration, to law and bureaucracy, to a name that cannot be held accountable either to the Stortinget or in elections. The centre party is pleased that a majority today rejects these attempts to shift power over predatory management away from elected bodies and into anonymous spaces without political control. We are pleased that the majority share that concern for the People's Government and do not regard this as a countermeasure, but rather the opposite. It's not hard to understand that state councils may think it's tough to be in these conflicts, but that's the government. People have to rule, not lawyers and experts. Leaks shall be controlled by learned persons. What is perhaps most surprising – or perhaps not so surprising – is that the Right is on such a proposal, the Right is the party of historical officials, but the Left, with its history in the popular movements, is involved in moving politics into the closed spaces, to officials, bureaucrats and lawyers, is quite perceptive. It may also be the explanation that Sverdrup's old batch is well below the barrier limit of today's measurements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1658	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1663	I note that the Center Party says they will vote for a proposal that will not give a change in wolf management practice. We're going to take note of that. It would have been tempting to ask them if they are very comfortable with whom they vote today, but I should not ask that question. Nevertheless, it is not possible to underestimate the fact that once again we are going into a summer in which the predators are going to make decisions, and a coming fall when we are presumably still going to have major conflicts in wolf management. This could be achieved through the treatment today, by supporting the proposals put forward by the Progress Party and the Central Party, by helping to bring down, by providing wolf management in line with the wolf settlement, and by alleviating conflicts between the city and the country, and between grazing and predatory animals. It's a shame we miss that possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1670	I notice that the Progress Party challenges the Center Party from this pulpit, and you can summarize how many of the Central Party's predatory animal proposals the Progress Party has actually voted down in this Chamber. There are none of the proposals that the Central Party is making today that will exacerbate predatory policy, but there is a little hope of turning predatory policy around, and that is what we stand by. If we see a little hope and a movement in Stortinget, we support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1675	It is not the intention to prolong the debate, but I take the floor again because of the force of the representative Myhrvold, who has little to do with the old Sverdrup party, which he calls us – and that is too much reason to call the Left. The Central Party's criticism of this independent rapist complaint is very difficult to understand. The reason for this is that the Central Party appears to have full confidence in the predatory wildlife subjects and zero confidence in a possible predatory wildlife complaint subject. If the robbers have decided something else and a political council of the Ministry of Climate and Environment says it is wrong, the criticism of that Council of State is flagrant, whether it represents Left or Right or other party. But when the government points out that maybe we should then allow an independent denominator to make the appeal decisions, it is not about that. Then you will have full confidence in party politicians who will sit in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and make these decisions. It's not possible to understand what the Center Party actually means, except that the seemingly obvious are basically against all changes in the predatory game policy that come from the government, no matter what way they go. And then there's also a serious thing about this, because the debts that come from the Center Party against the administration are actually pretty serious. What is repeated and repeated is that one does not follow up on what the Storting has done through its laws and like itss, understanding that we take party politics into consideration. But if one says that then an independent name is given to manage these decisions and interpret them, as courts do, which is quite common in other parts of the administration, no, then neither will one. So I'm wondering if what's actually going on here is an admission that the administrator we're running is actually in line with what the Storing has agreed. In any case, it is very strange what has been said, including what the representative Borch says about the situation of grazing within the wolf's son. For the fact is that there are now more sheep in the wolfesona than that was when we created the wolfesona. That's good. So it's true that there's fewer sheep on the field, but then it's worth remembering the Storting, and also the Center Party, whether why we at all have this kind of zone management, where one has to conduct a certain different policy within and outside the sons and have different tools available inside and outside the sons. If everything was going to be completely the same inside and outside, it's hard to understand why one at a time should have a wolf zone. So it's supposed to say that the Center Party is opposed to having a wolf zone. They are also opposed to having a single wolf in Norway; they will eradicate that species from Norway. That may mean, but that's not what the Storting has agreed, and that's not what's in predatory game like, and then you shouldn't pretend that's what's real.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1690	I wonder if the council misunderstands me. Because this is not the case that the Central Party has unlimited confidence in the looters, but we trust that the Council of State will manage the Stortinge decision. It is the complaint function proposed here replaced by a complaint subject, an independent complaint subject to be led by a lawyer and composed by professionals. That's what this is all about. It's not about trust or not to predators, it's about trust in people, and if people disagree with this government's predatory management, they can actually change it about a decade in elections. That's what's the point here. In addition to that, it is true that I think you should also have greater confidence in the predators. They are composed after selection and digestion in the different zones, and they have shown that they are trustworthy and run a knowledge-based management of predators that are unfortunately repeatedly being tested. I repeat that it is a good rule that games should govern scholars in a government. That's why we have a power distribution principle. I also have to say that there is some kind of misuse of statistics when you say that there are more sheep in the wolf zone now than it has been before. In the wolf zone itself, there is no more sheep than it was before, and the sheep that is there is largely on the inward leg and not on the outeral leg, which is an important resource. Statistics can go a long way, but I think we're going to deal with the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1700	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 8-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1716	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1723	In the previous debate, the Right was called the Central Party of officials. We'll see how right it really is in this case about County. Thank you for a good proposal from the government, and thank you for a good cooperation within the committee. This is about lifting the requirement in the law that the County must confirm the rules of conduct established by the municipality under the law on the open air. In addition, the Government proposes to repeal the provision that the Ministry may instruct the counties in the open air by means of guidelines. Instead, such assignment of tasks will be laid down in the form of a regulation. There have been 49 hearings on this subject. The views of the hearing opinions mainly address the County State’s competence to confirm municipal codes of conduct. There are some hearing bodies that believe that the public interest and the universal right are best served by today’s system and that there is an increased risk of different traffic rules across municipal borders. Other hearing bodies, including: Mr Bondelag, support the proposal. Those who are in favour of the proposal stress that the change will give county and local authorities greater freedom to find appropriate solutions to local challenges. Due to increased tourism, landowners today experience physical obstacles to the use of their own property, and in addition, these areas are often neglected, but solutions can be found at local level. We who sit on the Energy and Environment Committee – no matter how we vote on this matter – are concerned that the rights of all people should be preserved, because in Norway we should have the opportunity to use and enjoy our unique nature. At the same time, local administration is important and local administration needs to be respected. When we hear that agricultural properties are being neglected so that it is impossible for the farmer to do his job without first cleaning up, we think we need to be able to find locally suitable solutions. That is why this proposal makes sense, and it is sensible to define it, so that the rights of all people are, of course, maintained in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1736	The rapporteur explained very well what the government has put in as a proposal here. I would also like to point out that the hearing bodies have shown that today's rules are precisely in the interests of the general public and of all human rights. The recordings indicated that the proposal would lead to an increased risk of different traffic rules across municipal borders or traffic limits for which there is no legal basis. Outdoor life is a carrier in Norwegian society. It is important to facilitate the best possible exercise of it and ensure the right of all persons. Of course, outdoor life has an important role to play as a health promoter and is not least a cause of well-being for many, and it is important to keep this order in order. In the case of local regulations regulating outdoor life, there must be transparent and simple rules to deal with, across municipal boundaries, and they must not be an obstacle to the right of all persons. We fear that the government's proposal will create a fragmented management of outdoor life and end up as an unbridled handling of the different rules and traffic restrictions. The aim of the proposal is to contribute to simplification, as the government says, and we are basically very positive about that. At the same time, we see that research says that at present there is not enough competence or capacity in the municipalities to handle the new tasks associated with this, nor do we see any additional funds or increases related to what is possible in the municipalities. That is why we are faced with the fact that the administration today and the way in which it is done by the State also stands for the future, and that is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1747	I am pleased that the representative Heggelund and the old official party Right here are with the Central Party to move power from state to local government. It is probably soon the only thing left of the local and regional reform of special task transfer. Allemannsrechten is one of the things that makes Norway Norway and the Nordics the Nordics. The right to travel abroad is something most of us use at regular and uneven intervals. In the past few months, probably more than usual, have used the opportunity to feel in the spring, go for a walk on the path and hear the calm of the forest, or just feel healthy and cool up on the mountain. The proposal we are dealing with today does not weaken the rights of all people, but strengthens local self-government, reduces state bureaucracy and interference, and gives landowners more power over their own property. The centre party is convinced that municipal and local authorities are fully capable of balancing the consideration between all-man rights and private property rights. It is also gratifying that the government actually carries out some of the task transfer from the state to the municipality that has been in a way the crown argument behind the regional and municipal reform. Some have pointed out that there is a risk of getting a more fragmented all-man's rights with different rules from the municipality to the municipality. That's what the Center Party thinks is going to happen to a little bit. Traditionally, municipalities are well coordinated with regard to cross-border actions, and municipalities will be served to a small extent by very different legislation in areas that need to be said to be part of the same open-air area and in areas used across municipal borders. Although the government parties stated that we need fewer municipalities because Norwegian municipalities cooperate too much, the Central Party believes that the municipalities will be able to find a wise and good cooperation in this matter. So will also happen when it comes to dealing with all-man rights, private property rights and the safeguarding of open air life, for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1762	Outdoor life is a carrier in Norwegian society. The Outdoors Act was established in due course to protect the areas of outdoor activity and to ensure the right of movement of the general public. The possibility of exercising outdoor activities as a health promotion, welfare and environmentally friendly recreational activity must be maintained and promoted. Any local regulations regulating outdoor life must be transparent and easy to deal with, across local boundaries, and cannot be an obstacle to the right of all persons. The proposal we are discussing today can create a fragmented management of open-air life that can create an inconspicuous patchwork of different rules and movement restrictions. It can act as a barrier to the ability of the public to operate simple open-air life, and it can, in the long term, weaken the right of all persons. One of the purposes of the amendment is to simplify the system. Different rules in different municipalities are not a simplification for the individual in the open air context; it is a distortion. In Report. St. 18 for 2015–2016, Outdoor Life – Nature as a source of health and quality of life, the government wrote the following: ‘Increased use of regulations may encroach unilaterally on certain rights of all persons. Prohibitions in certain areas or by certain routes are not compensated for by similar new possibilities elsewhere. Over time, this may reduce the possibility of multiple outdoor activities.’;» In its reply to the Committee on this matter, the State Council assumes that the municipalities have sufficient capacity and competence for the tasks already performed by the municipalities. Unfortunately, research shows that lack of environmental competence and capacity weakens the ability to properly discharge local authorities' responsibilities as environmental authorities. Then we have the County control function, which ensures a good overview of all behavioral rules and movement restrictions. The county can therefore assess the need for action on the basis of its overall impact and impact, in such a way that the public interest and the universal right are respected across the municipal boundaries. The Council of State also responds to the Committee's reply that the draft law will enable the State to complain about the local regulations: 'The State still has a control function if the State considers it appropriate'. It is correct, but this government has also indicated that they want fewer objections from the State, so how are the county officials to interpret this? I am afraid, unfortunately, that the government's stated objective of fewer objections leads to a weakening of the state's ability in this matter, and that outdoor life faces an uncertain future. That is why SV opposes this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1786	Today, municipalities have four homes in the open-air law to establish local rules on movement and behaviour. Common to the regulations is that the County Council must confirm them in order for them to apply. The background is that the County State should investigate whether the outdoor laws have been used correctly and at the same time the outdoors and the rights of all persons. The government wants to strengthen local self-government and make administration more efficient. The government therefore proposes that municipal rules on movement and behaviour under the law on outdoors should no longer be confirmed by the State. The Ministry also proposes changes to the outdoor laws § 22 on who is to assign tasks to county councils and how this should be done. The right of universal access is very important for outdoor life and must not be restricted. In the hearing, many were concerned that the proposal for changes to the outdoor laws would weaken the right of all persons. In my view, the proposal does not weaken the right of all persons. It is possible to exercise the right of universal access in other ways than by requiring the County to control the municipalities in all cases. First, this regulation applies to the governing law. This leads to demands for both defence and hearing. Secondly, the laws already provide for a separate legal right to appeal against the decisions of the municipality. Thirdly, in order for the State to continue to have a certain control function and to be free of charge, the Ministry has proposed that the State should also have such a right of appeal. As I am aware, the municipalities adopt very few local regulations on driving and behaviour. The area management of municipalities according to planning and building laws has much more to say for all-person rights and the exercise of open-air life than local rules on movement according to open-air law. So I don't see any reason to go on with the special rule that the state should confirm them in any case. The government has also clarified in the outdoor laws § 22 how the state can assign tasks to county municipalities under the outdoor laws. The current rule on this indicates that the department can instruct the county municipalities through guidelines. After the government's view, this is neither correct nor lucky. Municipalities and county councils are self-employed management levels. They are not hierarchically subordinate to the ministry. Therefore, the department should not instruct the county councils or give them tasks through guidelines. The government has therefore proposed to repeal the rule that the ministry can provide such guidance. At the same time, the Government proposes to continue the rule that the Ministry may assign tasks to county councils by laying down regulations. This solution provides flexibility for subsequent organisational changes and changes in the division of tasks between the authorities. This is in line with the general division of tasks between the Department and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1808	I think I'm trying a simple question in this round, too, I. That's: I wonder if the Council of State thinks it's going to be easier or more difficult to practise outdoor life with this change?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1813	I hope, in any case, that it will be easier to practise outdoor life with all the changes I have proposed as regards outdoor life. I think to be honest that this change will not have so much to say for the practical right and the ability to exercise outdoors. It will have something to say about this: the municipalities can adopt a number of guidelines without having to be confirmed by the County Council. If County or others, e.g. Outdoor organisations, believe that the decisions taken by the municipality are not in line with e.g. they may lodge complaints. I think it's good that you can make such changes as this, but I think it's completely honest that it won't have so much to say to the practical outdoors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1822	I thank you for your answer. What about organisations complaining about different legislation in different municipalities, while the county councillors are not allowed to raise objections because they have been told by the government to reduce the number of objections? Does the Council agree that this could lead to an unbridled situation for the individual outdoor users?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1830	In the opinion that the State does not adequately reflect this type of regulation, the organisations themselves will also be able to appeal against decisions taken by the Ministry. I'm, to be completely honest, not very concerned about this. As I mentioned in my post, there are quite few such regulations today. What is at issue is relatively concise questions that the municipalities themselves are able to deal with, e.g.: on which paths to permit by horse and bicycle, or where only to go, rules on burning fire, bathing and such things. It may be important enough for those in debt, but I think the municipalities are well able to take care of the outdoors. There is also, in general, an open-air demonstration that is just a desire to produce through such regulations. Now, as I know, the community of community organisations use to be very positive about what they do when this is the case. But if they were to be very disagreeable, as I said, it would be possible to complain about the new changes as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1838	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1857	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1864	The government has submitted a legislative proposal on changes to the Salmon and Inland Fisheries Act and the Criminal Procedures Act. Based on the discovery of a high number of conditions relating to illegal fishing of anadrom salmonids each year, the Committee sees the need to look at changes to reduce illegal fishing. There has been considerable consensus in the Committee on the matter, including on the importance of the matter, and there has been agreement to lift the penalties and to provide more management tools to combat theft — although there have been different reactions, especially to the upper criminal framework. A number of changes have been proposed. An increase from ‘up to two years’ to ‘up to five years’ in the case of serious infringements has been foreseen. An administrative authorisation to impose administrative infringement charges is provided for, as an alternative to a criminal fine. An authorisation is provided for the administrative seizure of fishing gear and the extension of administrative detention to mention something. Hearing and written submissions to the matter show that there has been a broad agreement with most of the proposals, although we note that there is a certain difference between the interest in sea salmon fishing or in river fishing. Today’s illegal fishing can lead to restrictions on legal fishing – and this will be extremely unfortunate. Therefore, it must be an objective that we have a level of punishment that seems deterrent to carrying out such acts. Many of the notified cases are dismissed by the prosecution authorities, including as a result of lack of capacity. However, in the event of the imposition of an infringement fee, less serious circumstances could result in a penalty and have a preventative effect. This will also release resources from the police to investigate more serious cases. Norway has one fifth of all Atlantic salmon, and Norway is therefore specifically responsible for the conservation of this resource. It is therefore necessary to strengthen efforts to combat illegal fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1879	I want to start by thanking the case rapporteur for a good job. We in the Labour Party support these proposals, but we believe that a small increase in what has been proposed by the government regarding the extension of the right to administrative withdrawal should be considered. With regard to the proposal for administrative penalties, it will have financial and administrative implications for the administration because it will be possible to sanction a number of offences that are not being followed up today due to limited capacity in the criminal justice system. The impact of illegal fishing on anadrom salmonids is increasing and provides the authorities with some more appropriate means to achieve this. It could also relieve the police in some cases, as we can see.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1886	Illegal fishing is a major challenge to which attention has been paid for many years, but although the State's over-the-counter nature monitoring has intensified efforts to detect both illegally set yarns and unlabelled yarns and implements, we have nevertheless seen a negative trend. Many cases have been identified, and more serious cases have also been reported. The illegalities often consist of several yarns in a yarn link and fishing outside of legal fishing time. The reports for illegal kilenot fishing also had an increase a few years ago. It is not least also a concern about organised illegal fishing for sale, which is, of course, serious. This is environmental crime that can have major consequences for vulnerable strains. Illegal fishing for salmon, trout and trout may have major consequences for the population in many rivers, but this turns out to be difficult to investigate. Unfortunately, the poachers also risk a little. We therefore think it is quite appropriate that the law be tightened, as the government has now proposed. We support the lifting of penalties for serious infringements. We believe that this is necessary in order to stress the seriousness of the illegal acts, but we have found it right to point out that the punishment must at the same time be consistent with criminal measures in other cases. We also support responses and sanctions such as seizures, fines and withdrawals. There has been a discussion about administrative seizures and withdrawal, and it is important to know that administrative withdrawal of tools occurs only when the instrument is unlabelled and unlawful and has no significant value. If it is marked and of considerable value, the prosecution authorities take over the further proceedings and the owner of the instrument has the right to complain about the suspension. An administrative seizure decision is a temporary withdrawal of up to six months and may take place with both marked and unlabelled instruments. There is also no upper limit to the value of the gear, but it is important to stress that in both cases it is illegal fishing. The purpose is to interrupt the illegal action, but also in the event of a so-called seizure, the owner of the equipment has the full opportunity to engage in supervisory dialogue in order to clarify any errors or misunderstandings in the course of these six months. These are important changes in the law that, overall, reinforce efforts to maintain and maintain the populations of these important but endangered species of fish. It's a wild and priority part of the government's work to strengthen its efforts against environmental crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1901	The centre party agrees with the government and the majority in the Chamber that illegal fishing is a major environmental problem. It's a problem for the wild stocks, and it's an explicit goal to reduce such fish. It can be done through legislative restrictions, as proposed by the government in this case, several controls and other preventive measures. It may also be about increasing the capacity of the control regime. The Central Party, on the other hand, believes that the criminal framework should not challenge the general sense of justice of people. Illicit salmon fishing must not be equated with more serious and very serious crime. There must be consistency between the illegal act carried out and the degree of punishment. Therefore, the central party cannot support the government’s proposal to increase the upper penalty framework from three to five years of imprisonment, which has been proposed. Also three years in prison is a relatively serious punishment, and I myself would probably not fish salmon if I risked what I think the few would do. So the punishment framework might be high enough as it is. The centre lot is also skeptical of the extended right to withdraw fishing gear administratively. We think the increase in the definition of ‘limited value’ from NOK 5000 to NOK 50000 is above all a lot. Extended powers must always be carefully assessed, and a value up to NOK 50000 represents such a large amount that the responsibility for such a seizure should lie with the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1910	In the legislative proposal we have put forward, the Ministry of Climate and Environment is proposing changes to the law on salmon and inland fishing. The aim of the changes is to strengthen efforts to combat illegal fishing. Every year many cases of illegal fishing for anadrom salmonids are detected. Illegal fishing reduces the number of gypsum fish in the river. Illegal fishing can also lead to more stringent regulation of legal fishing in order to achieve our objective of stock management. Illegal fishing for salmonids is a serious form of environmental crime that has major consequences for the vulnerable strains of anadrom salmonids. The proposal on changes in salmon and inland fish laws and criminal law is an important step in strengthening efforts to combat illegal fishing. The proposal covers, inter alia: to increase the sentence frame from up to two to up to five years imprisonment in the event of a serious violation of the provisions of the law. This gives a clear indication of the seriousness of illegal fishing for salmonids in fact, and the penalties imposed under these laws are now similar to those we already have in the case of natural disasters. New administrative responses, such as hijacking, have also been proposed to stop illegal fishing, and the fee for offences as an alternative to a criminal fine. Furthermore, it is proposed that an extension of the right to withdraw and temporarily refuse the registration of a cabin for up to two years is proposed. By tightening up the penalties for gross infringements and opening up administrative responses from the State's nature oversight system, the handling of laws will be more powerful and more effective. Coastal surveillance is particularly important to tackle illegal fishing. From this year on, Salmon supervision under the State's natural supervision has been sustained by 5 million. kr per year. I myself took part in an action with the State's natural supervision in Nordfjord on 22 May this year and saw how effective such an action can be, and that in full daylight it is also illegal to fish for salmon. The adoption of these legislative changes is an important step in the fight against illegal fishing and thus in the fight against environmental crime, and I am pleased that the majority in the Committee, and hopefully also the majority in this Chamber, support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1928	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1944	It's fun with a matter that's completely unanimous. The purpose of the amendments to the Product Control Act is to provide more effective product supervision and to reduce the illegal placing on the market of products with formal defects or defects. The reason for the changes is that Internet trade has made it easier to import reasonable products from low-cost countries and the supervisory authorities experience that several operators do not know the risks of the products they import and place on the market and lack satisfactory internal control, as required by the Product Control Act. A unanimous committee is in favour of the amendments and believes that it will reduce the likelihood of health damage and environmental disruption and improve the conditions of competition of law-abiding actors following the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1956	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, 14 and 15 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1986	The first concerns the agreement of the Storting with previous decisions of the EEA Committee on inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the Energy Label Regulation. The decision involves amendments to Annexes II and IV to the EEA Agreement. The new obligations were put into effect in the EU from 1 August 2017. The Directive has been implemented in Norwegian law by Regulation 27 May 2013, so this is probably not a major issue of news. The two key changes in the case are that, first of all, there's a character scale from A to G, and I think that's what we've all come up with. Secondly, a European database on energy-labelled products is established. Dealers selling products on the EU and EEA markets may themselves register products and retrieve product data sheets and energy labels from this database. This has facilitated the follow-up of supervisory findings in other countries. So this has resulted in better information for both supervision and consumers. This has been very straightforward matters to be rapporteur for, so it is not surprising that there is unanimity in the committee. The same was true of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e1996	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2017	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 6-11 from Tuesday's map and over cases No. 1 to 10 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2029	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-9, by Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Progress Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–9, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow the sale of alcoholic beverages in group 1 in grocery stores throughout the opening hours of the store.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reduce taxes on alcohol to the same level as our neighbouring countries, with the aim of avoiding trade leakage and smuggling.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to allow the marketing of non-alcoholic beer, with the brewery/producer’s own logo.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to allow the marketing of alcoholic beverages/alcohols inside the outlets.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow labelling of alcohol produced by itself with any distinctions and/or prices.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to grant the Vinmonopoly the right of establishment.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to allow municipalities to accept sales authorisation applications, even when the application comes from service trading companies.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow distillers and breweries to sell all self-produced goods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2091	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a national alcohol strategy for the Storting by the end of 2020’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2258	The first paragraph of Section 2-5 and the first paragraph of Section 3-4 shall be deleted. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2272	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2282	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2292	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2304	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the regulation of the BPA immediately in order to ensure an equivalent offer throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a transfer of the system of user-led personal assistance to the population’s security, financed as an aid, and to come back to the Stortinge with a case to this effect.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the scope of the top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive services corresponding to the change in the age limit for the right to user-driven personal assistance.’;» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2359	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2369	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2381	During the debate, Siv Mossleth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The entry into force of the amendment to the Law of 21 June 2019 No. 67 on amendments to the Professional Transport Act are deferred for at least one year.» [[withdrawal of the pilot test for taxis, etc.]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2428	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2438	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2540	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2551	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2570	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2582	We then go over to vote on the matter no. 1 to 10 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2654	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2664	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2676	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a legal provision for better police identity protection.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2918	Alternatively, there will be voting between II New § 155b and proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new Section 155(b) of the Penal Code is replaced by the following: § 155 b Minimum penalty for the use of firearms, etc. against the police The penalty is imprisonment from 3 to 10 years if the act referred to in Section 155 consists of firing firearms or using explosives or other equipment suitable for causing significant damage to the body and the public service official is a police officer or other public service officer exercising police authority.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2941	There are people who have voted incorrectly. Let's do the voting one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2953	The rest of the II, I and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2964	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2974	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e2986	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 4–6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the foreign appeal procedure which contribute to full opposition to the proceedings and for the general rule to be a personal appearance for oral hearing.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit several-day legislative proposals for compulsory training for nationals of the UN, both in terms of asylum and foreign and country information.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make sure that it is introduced as a condition for being a member of the UN that the member fulfils a requirement of competence and that a member’s appointment board is set up.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3027	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the possibility of sending requests for conversion in foreign affairs is restricted and that decisions in the foreign field may never be put into suspension during the treatment of a request for conversion by the UN.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up the special arrangements for free legal aid in the field of foreigners’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3049	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a review of the appeal procedure in the field of aliens with the expectation that this implies better legal certainty for asylum seekers, including the increased use of counter-dictation and orality in the appeal procedure.’ The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal. The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3185	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3197	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3212	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3225	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Jon Engen-Helgheim on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Decisions to the law on amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act etc. I In Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of non-residents to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] The second and third sentences of the first paragraph of Section 9 are replaced by the following: However, a non-resident who is at the Norwegian border seeking protection under the rules of Chapter 4 or who otherwise provides information indicating that the protection against expulsion under Section 73 will apply may be authorised to enter. The decision to authorise entry is taken by the police and is not considered as an individual decision. Paragraph 9 seventh paragraph is deleted. Paragraph 9 fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: The king may lay down detailed rules, including on the admission of asylum-seekers to visa-free entry, on who is exempted from the visa requirement under the second subparagraph and on the timing of the fourth subparagraph. point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 18 is replaced by the following: (a) the non-resident states that he is a refugee, as indicated. § 28, or to be entitled to protection under § 28 a, or otherwise to provide information indicating that the foreigner is protected against expulsion under § 73; Paragraph 28 first and second paragraphs shall be replaced by the following: A foreigner who is in the country or on the Norwegian border shall be recognised on application as a refugee if the foreigner has a well-founded fear of persecution because of ethnicity, descent, skin colour, religion, nationality, membership of a special social group or because of political opinion, and is unable, or because of such fear is unwilling, to invoke the protection of his country of origin, cf. the Convention on Refugees on 28 July 1951, Article 1 A and Protocol on 31 January 1967. A foreigner recognised as a refugee after the first subparagraph shall be entitled to a residence permit as a refugee. Paragraph 28 sixth and seventh paragraphs are replaced by the following: Under the conditions laid down in the Law here and with the exceptions provided for by the Royal Decree, spouses or consensual residents of a foreigner who is granted a residence permit as a refugee under the second subparagraph and children of the refugee under the age of 18 without spouse or cohabitation shall also be entitled to a residence permit as a refugee. If the conditions of the residence permit under this provision are not met, the decision-making authority shall assess on its own initiative whether the provisions of Section 28(a) are to be applied. Paragraph 28(a) is added as follows: § 28 a Residence permit for non-residents entitled to subsidiary protection A foreigner who is in the state or at the Norwegian border and who, without falling under Section 28, is in real danger of being subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in the event of a return to his country of origin is entitled to a residence permit for reasons of protection. The assessment referred to in the first subparagraph shall take into account whether the applicant is a child. The provisions of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 28 apply mutatis mutandis. Where there is doubt as to the identity of the non-resident, when the need is temporary, or when other specific reasons warrant, provision may be made for: a) the authorisation shall not form the basis of a permanent residence permit; b) the authorisation shall not form the basis of a residence permit under Chapter 6 of the Act for the family members of the non-resident; c) the authorisation shall not be renewable; or d) the duration of the authorisation shall be less than one year. If the conditions of the residence permit under this provision are not met, the decision-making authority shall assess on its own initiative whether the provisions of Section 38 are to be applied. The king may lay down detailed rules for the application of this paragraph. Paragraph 28(b) is added as follows: § 28 b Temporary and limited residence permits for lone minor asylum seekers who have a need for protection because they lack proper care on return Where it is essential for the assessment of the need for protection of a lone minor asylum seeker that he will be without proper care on return, the sole minor shall only have the right to a temporary and limited residence permit under Section 28 or 28(a). The authorisation may not be renewed after the age of 18 and does not constitute a basis for a permanent residence permit or a residence permit for family members under Chapter 6 of the Act. The king may lay down detailed rules for the application of this paragraph. The title and the first paragraph of Section 29 are replaced by the following: § 29 Persecution under § 28 For actions to be regarded as persecution within the meaning of Section 28, they must either: (a) constitute, individually or by reason of repetition, a serious infringement of fundamental human rights, in particular those rights which cannot be waived in accordance with Article 15(1); 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights of 4 November 1950; or (b) constitute several different measures, including violations of human rights, which together are so serious that they affect a person in a way comparable to the situation described in point (a). Paragraph 30 is replaced by the following: § 30 Details of the basis for persecution according to § 28 For the purposes of Section 28, the following shall be taken into account when assessing the basis for the persecution: (a) Religion shall be considered to include, in particular: religious and other aspects of life; participation in or intentional absence from formal worship, whether private or public, alone or with others; other acts or opinions relating to his or her religion or view of life; individual or collective actions dictated by religious or life-seeking beliefs; freedom to change religion or other way of life. (b) Nationality shall include, in addition to nationality or lack of citizenship, membership of a group defined by its cultural, ethnic or linguistic identity, geographical or political origin or relationship with the population of another country. c) A special social group shall be considered to include, in particular, a group of people who have a common characteristic in addition to the danger of being persecuted and who are perceived as a group of society. The common characteristic may be inherent or for other reasons immutable, or otherwise consist of a way of being or a belief so fundamental to the identity, conscience or exercise of human rights that a human being cannot be expected to provide it. Former victims of trafficking in human beings shall be considered as members of a special social group. d) Political opinions shall be deemed to include, in particular, opinions on the persecutors concerned or their policies or methods, whether or not the applicant has acted in accordance with this view. When assessing whether there is a well-founded fear of persecution, it is irrelevant whether the applicant has the characteristics or perception that lead to the persecution, see. § 28, if the persecutor believes that the applicant has the characteristic or the opinion. The title and the first to fourth paragraphs of Section 31 are replaced by the following: § 31 Exclusion from right to protection Right to protection under § 28 or 28 a is not available if the foreigner falls under the refugee Convention on 28 July 1951 Article 1D or E or if there are serious grounds for believing that the foreigner: (a) have committed a crime against peace, a war crime or a crime against humanity, as defined in international agreements aimed at making provision for such crimes; (b) has committed a serious non-political crime outside the borders of Norway before being admitted to Norway as a refugee; or (c) has committed acts contrary to the objectives and principles of the United Nations. Nor is there a right to protection under Section 28(a) available if the foreigner is finally convicted of a particularly serious crime and for that reason poses a danger to the Norwegian community. If there are grounds for the expulsion of a non-resident for fundamental national interests under the second paragraph of Section 126, the fifth paragraph of Section 126 shall apply. Nor is there a right to protection under Section 28(a) available if the foreigner left the home country only in order to avoid criminal proceedings for one or more criminal offences that could have been punished by imprisonment if the offences had been committed in Norway. If a foreigner falling under points (a) or (c) or the second subparagraph of the first subparagraph has already received a residence permit under Section 28 or 28(a), the residence permit may be revoked. Paragraph 32, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: An application for protection, cf. Paragraphs 28 and 28(a) may be rejected if the applicant: (a) have received asylum or other protection in another country; (b) may be requested to be received by another country participating in Dublin cooperation, as specified. the fourth paragraph; c) may be requested by another Nordic State in accordance with the rules of the Nordic passport control agreement; (d) have travelled to the State after having resided in a country or territory where the foreigner was not persecuted. Paragraph 32, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: The King of the Council of State may decide to apply for protection as set out in paragraph 1. Paragraphs 28 and 28(a) shall be admissible if the applicant arrives directly from a Nordic State. The King of the Council of State may decide that in such cases, the power to refuse substantive proceedings and the power to renunciate pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 17 shall be added to the police officer. The King of the Council of State may decide that in such cases refusal of substantive treatment and expulsion pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 17 shall not be regarded as an individual decision. The provisions of the first to third sentences shall apply irrespective of what would otherwise be followed by the fourth subparagraph. This does not apply to prior notification under Section 37 of the Administrative Act until the King of the State Council takes decisions as referred to in the first to third sentences. Paragraph 33, first sentence, is replaced by the following: Where there are specific circumstances which can justify an early improvement in the situation of the area of asylum seekers, the Ministry may decide that the processing of applications from persons from this area shall be suspended for up to six months. Paragraph 34, third paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: An application for individual protection, as set out in: Paragraphs 28 and 28(a) from a non-resident referred to in the second subparagraph may be suspended for up to three years from the date of first authorisation. Paragraph 35, third and fourth paragraphs, is replaced by the following: A foreigner who has received a permit to enter after the first subparagraph is granted a residence permit under this paragraph until the Foreign Affairs Directorate has decided whether the foreigner should be granted a residence permit under §§ 28, 28 a or 38. When assessing a case under § 28, 28 a and 38 after entry, due consideration shall be given to whether the stranger had reason to expect protection under § 28 or 28 a. Chapters IV and V of the Administrative Act on preparation and decision-making shall apply only to decisions taken after entry. Chapter VI of the Administrative Act on Complaints and Remedies applies where a decision on a residence permit has been taken pursuant to § 28, 28 a or 38. Paragraph 37 is replaced by the following: § 37 Termination and revocation of permits under §§ 28, 28 a or 34 In addition to the revocation under § 63, the status of refugee and residence permit under §§28 and 34 or the residence permit under §28a may also be revoked if the foreigner: (a) have re-applyed voluntarily for protection from the country of which the foreigner is a national; (b) after losing its citizenship, it has been voluntarily reacquired; (c) have acquired new citizenship and enjoy the protection of the country of which the foreigner has become a national; (d) resided voluntarily again in the country where the foreigner left or stayed outside because of the fear of persecution or treatment referred to in paragraph 28(a); (e) may no longer refuse to benefit from protection from the country of which the foreigner is a national, because the conditions which led to the protection of the foreigner pursuant to Sections 28, 28(a) or 34 are no longer present; or (f) are not nationals of any country and because of the fact that the conditions which led to the protection of the foreigner under Sections 28, 28(a) or 34 are no longer present are capable of returning to the country where the foreigner had previously resided. The residence permit shall not be withdrawn after points (e) or (f) of the first subparagraph if the foreigner is able to rely on compelling grounds in connection with previous persecution or treatment referred to in paragraph 28(a) in order to reject protection from that country in which the foreigner has citizenship or to refuse to return to the country in which the foreigner previously had his normal residence. Paragraph 38(a) is added as follows: § 38 a Temporary and limited residence permit for lone minor asylum seekers who lack adequate care on return An unaccompanied minor asylum seeker who has no basis for a residence permit other than that the Norwegian authorities consider that the applicant will be without proper care on return shall only be entitled to a temporary and limited residence permit under the first paragraph of Section 38 of the Act. The authorisation may not be renewed after the age of 18 and does not constitute a basis for a permanent residence permit or a residence permit for family members under Chapter 6 of the Act. The king may lay down detailed rules for the application of this paragraph. Paragraph 40(a) is deleted. Paragraph 41, second paragraph, last sentence, is deleted. Paragraph 41(b) is added as follows: § 41 b Requirements for certain reference persons for four years of work or training in Norway for family establishment It is a condition for a residence permit according to §§ 40 and 41 that the reference person has worked or received training in Norway for four years, when the reference person has: [[spouses]] [[boilers]] (a) a residence permit as a refugee, cf. § 28; (b) a residence permit for non-residents entitled to subsidiary protection, as provided for. Paragraph 28(a) (c) a residence permit following an entry authorisation as a transfer refugee, as provided for. Paragraph 35, third paragraph, (d) collective protection in a mass flow situation, as specified. § 34, (e) residence permits due to strong human interests or special ties with the State, see. § 38, (f) residence permit as a family member, cf. §§ 40 to 53, or g) a permanent residence permit on the basis of the permits referred to in points (a) to (f), cf. Paragraph 62. The condition laid down in the first subparagraph shall not apply where: a) the marriage was concluded or the marriage was established before the date of entry of the reference person into Norway; or b) the parties have married or lived in an established life while both have had a residence permit in Norway. Derogations from the condition may be made if specific reasons, including consideration of the family unit, so justify. The king may lay down detailed rules. Paragraph 41(c) is added as follows: § 41 c Requirements for certain reference persons for three years of work or training in Norway for family reunification For applications covered by the derogation in the second subparagraph of § 41b, there is a condition for a residence permit under §§ 40 and 41 that the reference person has worked or received training in Norway for three years, when the reference person has: [[spouses]] [[boilers]] (a) a residence permit as a refugee, cf. § 28; (b) a residence permit for non-residents entitled to subsidiary protection, as provided for. Paragraph 28(a) (c) a residence permit following an entry authorisation as a transfer refugee, as provided for. Paragraph 35, third paragraph, (d) collective protection in a mass flow situation, as specified. § 34, (e) residence permits due to strong human interests or special ties with the State, see. § 38, (f) residence permit as a family member, cf. §§ 40 to 53, or g) a permanent residence permit on the basis of the permits referred to in points (a) to (f), cf. Paragraph 62. Derogations from the condition may be made if specific reasons, including consideration of the family unit, so justify. The king may lay down detailed rules. Paragraph 43, the title and the first sentence of the first paragraph are replaced by the following: § 43 Family reunification between children residing under §§ 28, 28 a or 34 and the child's parents and siblings Applicants who are parents of children under the age of 18 with a residence in the Kingdom under § § 28, 28 a or 34 are entitled to stay. Paragraph 48, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Residence permits of up to six months may be granted to an applicant who is required to marry after entry with a reference person as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 40. It's a condition that both parties are over 18 years of age. The provisions of § 40, third, fifth and seventh paragraphs and § 41(a), 41(b) and 41(c) apply mutatis mutandis. The king may lay down detailed conditions in the regulation. Paragraph 56, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The first subparagraph does not restrict the right to seek protection within the meaning of that paragraph. §§ 28 and 28 a, or to invoke a protection against dispatch, cf. Paragraph 73. Paragraph 58, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The maintenance and housing requirement does not apply to the person entitled to a residence permit under Section 28 or Section 28(a) or who fulfils the conditions for protection against dispatch under Section 73. Paragraph 59, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: However, the residence permit provided for in Section 28 or 28(a) may not be refused on the basis of this paragraph. Paragraph 60, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The initial residence permit shall be granted as a temporary residence permit for up to five years. Paragraph 61, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: Unless there are grounds for termination or revocation under §§ 37 or 63, a residence permit under §§ 28, 28 a and 34 shall be renewed. Paragraph 62, first paragraph, introductory wording and point (a) are replaced by the following: A foreigner who has resided in the State of a temporary residence permit on the basis of a permanent residence permit for the last five years shall, upon application, be entitled to a permanent residence permit if: (a) the stranger has not remained outside the kingdom for the last five years for a total of more than seven months; Paragraph 64, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: A foreigner who has or has been granted a residence permit in the State on the basis of an application for protection but has not been granted a residence permit as a refugee shall be granted a passport for a trip outside Norway if the foreigner’s relationship with the authorities of the home Member State so permits and there are no specific reasons against it. Paragraph 66(e) and (f) of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: (e) where the foreigner has violated Chapter 18 of the Criminal Code or has provided a safe place of residence for someone who is aware that the foreigner has committed such a crime; (f) where the third-country national’s application for protection has been rejected in substance in accordance with point (a) or (d) of the first paragraph of paragraph 32 and the application appears to be an abuse of the asylum system; or Paragraph 73, first to third paragraphs, is replaced by the following: A non-resident may not be sent to an area where he would be in a situation as referred to in Section 28, unless: (a) the non-resident is excluded from protection under § 31; or (b) for reasonable reasons, the foreigner is considered a threat to the security of the State or has received a final judgment in respect of a particularly serious crime and therefore presents a danger to the Norwegian community. A non-resident cannot be sent to an area where he would be in a situation as referred to in Section 28(a). The protection provided for in this provision shall also apply in the case of situations referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph. The protection provided for in the first and second subparagraphs shall also apply to the dispatch to an area where the person concerned would not be safe from being forwarded to such an area as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 28 or the first paragraph of Section 28a. Paragraph 76, second paragraph, second and third sentences are deleted. Paragraph 81, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: In cases under §§ 28, 28 a and 73, as well as in cases of expulsion, expulsion, revocation of the granted permit or revocation of the residence document, cf. Paragraph 120, second paragraph, shall ensure that the foreigner is given the opportunity to present his/her views in a language in which the foreigner can communicate properly. Paragraph 82 is replaced by the following: In cases of expulsion, expulsion, withdrawal of authorisation or revocation of residence documents, see: § 120, and when a foreigner invokes the right to protection, the police shall provide guidance that the foreigner is entitled to the proxy, cf. Section 12 of the Administrative Act and Legal Assistance, cf. Section 92, as well as the right to contact their country's representative, a representative of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and a Norwegian refugee organisation. Paragraph 88, first paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If, in a case of protection or in a case of a family member's residence permit, it is not possible to establish with reasonable certainty whether the foreigner is over or under 18 years of age, the foreigner may be requested to be examined in order to clarify the age. Paragraph 90, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: Claims a foreigner’s right to protection, cf. §§ 28 or 28 a, or otherwise provide information indicating that the protection against dispatch pursuant to § 73 will apply, a decision may be taken only before it is final if: (a) the application for residence has been refused in substance in accordance with § 32; b) the applicant has previously been refused protection in another country; or (c) the conditions for residence under § § 28, 28 a or 73 are manifestly not fulfilled; Paragraph 90, eleventh paragraph, is replaced by the following: If a foreigner invokes circumstances as referred to in Section 28 or 28a at the time of the implementation of a decision requiring the foreigner to leave the State, and it is not clear that the facts claimed have already been taken into consideration, the police shall refer the issue of deferred implementation to the authority which has taken the decision. Paragraph 92, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: A non-resident seeking protection under Section 28 or 28(a), or claiming protection from the posting under Section 73, is entitled to free counsel without examination by a negative decision of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. The title of Part II of Chapter 11 is replaced by the following: II Specific rules for applications for protection Paragraph 93, first and second paragraphs, is replaced by the following: An application for protection, cf. §§ 28 or 28 a, shall be submitted to the police without undue delay. Passports or other travel documents held by the foreigner shall be submitted with the application. If circumstances as referred to in Section 28 or 28a occur only after the foreigner enters the State, an application shall be made without undue delay after the foreigner becomes aware of the circumstances. Paragraph 94a, first sentence, is replaced by the following: If, in examining an application for protection, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs considers it obvious that the conditions of Sections 28, 28 a and 73 are not met, the time limit for appeal shall be one week from the date of notification of the decision to the party concerned. Paragraph 98(d) first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: The representative shall respect the interests of the minor in the matter and otherwise carry out the duties assigned to him by other legislation. When examining the application for protection, the representative shall, inter alia: (a) be present during discussions with the minor; (b) assist the minor in identity, age, etc. investigations; (c) assist the minor in the detection of parents or other caregivers; and (d) have contact with the lawyer of the minor and keep himself informed of the progress of the case. Paragraph 105(c) of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: (c) the foreigner has sought protection or is residing illegally and has been subject to a criminal offence or has been committed on a fresh basis in the exercise of a criminal offence, which may result in a sentence higher than six months in prison; Paragraph 108, fourth paragraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: (b) assists a foreigner to illegally enter the State or another country. This does not apply, however, if the purpose is to help a non-resident covered by § 28 or 28a of the Act to enter the first safe country. Paragraph 126, fifth paragraph, third sentence, is replaced by the following: There is no right to protection under Section 28(a) where there is a basis for expelling the stranger for fundamental national interests. Paragraph 129, sixth paragraph, is replaced by the following: Claims a foreigner’s right to protection, cf. §§ 28 or 28 a, or otherwise provide information indicating that the protection against dispatch pursuant to § 73 will apply, a decision may be taken only before it is final if: (a) the application for residence has been refused in substance in accordance with § 32; b) the applicant has previously been refused protection in another country; or (c) the conditions for residence under Section 28 or 28(a) or for protection against expulsion under Section 73 are manifestly not fulfilled. II In Law No. 4 July 2003 80 on the introduction system and training of Norwegian immigrants for new arrivals are amended as follows: [[Introduction Act]] Paragraph 2(a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: (a) protection under Section 28 of the Foreign Affairs Act or Section 28(a). III In Law No 10 June 2005 51 on Norwegian citizenship is amended as follows: [[Citizens Act]] the first paragraph of Section 12 is replaced by the following: For an applicant who is married to a Norwegian national and has a common residence with the spouse, the condition of point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 7 shall not apply. However, the applicant must have a total of at least five years of residence in the State during the last 10 years with residence permits of at least one year. Stay during one or more application periods is included in the five-year period. In addition, the period of residence in the kingdom and the time of marriage to a Norwegian national with a common residence must be at least seven years in total. Residence time and time married to Norwegian citizens can be earned at the same time. Paragraph 16, first and second paragraphs, is replaced by the following: In the case of applicants who are stateless, the conditions laid down in points (b), (e) and (h) of the first paragraph of Section 7 shall not apply. However, stateless applicants must have remained in the State for the last five years with residence permits of at least one year. Residence time during one or more application periods is included in the five-year period. For stateless applicants under the age of 18 born in Norway, the conditions set out in the first paragraph of Section 7 do not apply. However, stateless applicants under the age of 18 born in Norway must: (a) resided in the State at the time of application and have resided in the State for the last five years with residence permits of at least one year; or (b) reside in the State at the time of application and have a parent who is granted a permanent residence permit or Norwegian citizenship no later than the date of decision. The second paragraph of Section 16 shall become the third paragraph. IV The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the maintenance requirement also includes refugees and asylum seekers in line with the leadership of Prop. 90 L [[2015-2016]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to instruct the Directorate for Foreign Affairs to reject the processing of asylum applications by persons who have resided in Turkey or another country where they were not persecuted.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for reinforced border control to stop asylum seekers who are not entitled to receive treatment of their application.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e3916	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 15 May 2008 No 35 on the admission of foreigners to the Kingdom and their residence here is amended as follows: the fourth paragraph of Section 84a is replaced by the following: The disclosure of information pursuant to this provision may not take the form of a direct search.» Alternatively, this proposal and the appointment of the Committee to the fourth paragraph of Section 84a shall be rejected. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4184	The remainder of the II new § 84a and the rest of the II are voted on. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4198	It shall be added to I, III, IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4208	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4222	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4423	It's over V. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4438	It shall be counted against I, II, III, IV and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4448	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4458	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4470	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 by the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and propose a physically and economically reduced project for the RKV government quarter, as requested unanimously by the City Council in its decision of 22 April 2020.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the demolition of the Y-block is suspended until the Grand Government has examined a proposal for a physically and economically reduced project for the Governmental Quarter RKV.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4510	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to instruct State Building to suspend the demolition decision on the Y-block until the case has been dealt with in Oslo District Court.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4534	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Westgaard-Halle on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens proposal No 4, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 100 on the management of natural diversity is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 17 is replaced by the following: Wild game may be killed when it is deemed necessary to eliminate a current and significant risk of injury to the person. The owner, or one acting on behalf of the owner, may kill the game when it has to be deemed to be required due to an ongoing attack on the buff, tamrein, pig, dog and poultry. II The Law enters into force from the time the King decides. The king may bring the different provisions into force at different times.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4566	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate its own environmental complaint with a view to establishing such a name.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4583	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a bill that lowers the threshold for what is considered necessary under Section 17 of the Nature Diversity Act in relation to what is practice today.»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4598	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 100 on the management of natural diversity is amended as follows: Paragraph 19(a) is added as follows: § 19 a The following decisions may be appealed against to the Board of Appeal: [[Parliament adopted the legislative resolution]] (a) decisions on allowances for: 1) quota hunted at gaupe 2) Licensing of wild game 3) Precipitation of predatory game (b) decisions on the perpetrators of individual predatory game; (c) a decision to compensate for the loss of domestic animals and domestic animals of the bovine species; (d) decisions taken in accordance with the grant schemes of the pilot-in-command of the pilot-in-command. The Ministry may not instruct the Board of Appeal on the interpretation of law, the exercise of discretion, the prioritisation of cases or decisions in individual cases or the conversion of the decision of the Board of Appeal. In cases where the Rovviltcomplaint is the Board of Appeal, the Ministry may not instruct the body dealing with the case in the first instance, to decide on individual cases, or to reverse the decision of the first instance. The King appoints the members of the Board of Appeal. The King may prescribe the composition, organisation and proceedings of the Board of Appeal.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4674	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4686	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4700	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4722	Behind the setting is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4743	During the debate, Sandra Borch put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the Nature Diversity Act I [[significance of stocking targets for take-off of wild game]] In Law 19 June 2009 No. 100 on the management of natural diversity is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 18 is replaced by the following: The decisions referred to in points (a) to (f) of the first subparagraph may only be taken if the withdrawal does not endanger the survival of the stock and the purpose cannot be achieved in any other satisfactory manner. When assessing the take-off of wild game after point (c) of the first subparagraph, attention shall be paid to whether stock targets adopted at the size of the game have been achieved. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Right, Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4786	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4800	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4812	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-9, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party. The President noted that proposal No. 1 during the debate was changed and now reads: ‘The Government asks the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of June 2020 at the latest, to return to Stortinget with a concrete proposal for amendments to the Nature Diversity Act § 18(c), which exhausts the space for action following the Berne Convention in order to take account of other public interests of significant importance, including a clear understanding that the management of wolves in line with the stated stockpiles of the Storting is such a public interest.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘By August 2020 at the latest, the Government asks the Government to provide a review of the potential for damage to grazing animals by wolves from the wolf zone, including the importance of this in order to take decisions on killings under the Nature Diversity Act § 18, first paragraph, point (b). The Directorate of Agriculture and the Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy are involved in the work.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The size request the Government to submit, as soon as possible and by August 2020 at the latest, a proposal to reduce the overall management area of the wolf by 20 pst, as well as an assessment of the areas that should be selected in order to mitigate conflicts with the grazing industry and the potential impact of this on the management of the stock target.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the provisions of the wolf licensing period in such a way that there is no differentiation between areas inside and outside the wolf zone. The length of the period of licensing outside the wolf zone shall be taken into account.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to give full instruction to the robbers over their own secretariat.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify the responsibility of predators in order to adequately justify the ground for killing and the application of law in each individual killing decision.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the GPS marking of the entire Norwegian wolf population. Information is made available in the event of a negative decision being taken.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the provisions of the wolf licensing period to start on 1 October of each year.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the permanent permission for the killing of wolves entering grazing priority areas and areas of Sami domestic reindeer.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-06-03.ana.ud201e4888	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
