ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e28	The representative of Une Bastholm, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e35	I am pleased to make a proposal on behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Karin Andersen and myself on health care for all in Norway, also for paperless migrants and for visiting EEA citizens without a health insurance card.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e40	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e45	On behalf of Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Jenny Klinge, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a wide review of the supply of children and young people in need of help for mental distress and suffering and measures to strengthen the paediatric and juvenile psychiatry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e66	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Nikolai Astrup, Olug Vervik Bollestad and Abid Q. Raja will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from representative Stein Erik Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e75	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The local economy is one of the most important economies in this country. It's the municipalities that's gonna make sure our kids get a good and safe schooling. It's our municipalities that are going to make sure that we have room in the nursery. It's our municipalities that are going to make sure that our sickest elderly people who need a sick home place get it. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the fire crew being in place when needed. The list of requirements for the fulfilment of welfare services by municipalities is long. Then the government and the Council of State deliver their draft budget to the municipalities for 2021. The rapporteurs and elected representatives all over the country react very negatively and say straight away that this is going to be a cut budget. Now we keep out of the corona situation -- it's going to be a separate account. Municipalities report a cut in the daily supply of mental health, cut in support of teams and associations, cut home help services – the list of cut suggestions is long. Karmøy reported 4 million. kr i cut to resource-intensive users. The ski's warning 1 million. kr in cut to layers and associations. The Nams Forest must cut 7 pst. in the operational budget. In the Inner Eastfold municipality, the chief protection officer and trust elected representatives go out and ask for help, the frames are too tight. We see that when municipalities first cover wages, pensions for their employees, increased costs for resource-intensive users, children's care and other legal requirements, they do not spend their money. Why does the Council of State think that these municipalities will still get enough money when we hear the feedback? Why does the Council of State continue to give a cut in the wealth tax to Norway's financial elite when it is clear that municipalities must cut welfare and support for volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e86	The last few years have been good years for the municipal sector. There have been solid profits over several years. As a result, at the beginning of 2020, the municipal sector had 67 billion. kr on book, against 30 br. kr in 2013. Then there is a slightly lower operating surplus in 2019 for the sector as a whole, around 2 p.m., i.e. in line with TBU's recommendation, but seen in the last few years, it has been good years for the local government sector, which has enabled them to book money. Then there is no doubt that there are large variations between municipalities, so even though for the sector as a whole there have been good years, it is individual municipalities that, for various reasons, have challenges to get the ends to meet. I have been in contact with the two rapporteurs who are at the head of the rapporteurs of the Labour Party. One is from the Rana municipality. They have had very good years in recent years, 5-7 pst. operating profit, hundreds of millions of dollars on the book. It is good to see that there are also many municipalities that are doing well, and have done so in recent years. It's a misunderstanding that it's added to a cut budget by the government for 2021, on the contrary, we're adding up to a growth in the free revenues. Looking at the real space for action of the municipalities in the last ten years, with the exception of 2015 and 2016, is the largest growth in 2021. The real space for action is increasing by 700 million. kr – this can be read from the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e95	When one calculates the expenditure and looks at the revenue that the municipal minister will give to the municipalities, the draft budget for 2021 is and will be a minus budget. There is a rapporteur's uprising out there, as the Council of State said. Norwegian rapporteurs – regardless of the colour of the jacket pins – do not use to voice insurrection without good reason. Why is it so difficult for the Council of State to admit that he and his government simply prioritize other things and view them as more important than welfare services in the municipalities, where people live? Why can't the Council of State listen to the reports of concern coming from municipalities all over the country, and why doesn't the Council of State fight harder for its sector when the government has to distribute the money? Does the Minister for Local Affairs perhaps agree with his colleague, the Minister for Health, that it is the rapporteurs and local authorities who cannot handle the money, that they are wasteful and cannot give priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e100	When we took over the government offices in 2013, there were 46 municipalities on the ROBEK list – now there are 12. As mentioned in my previous response, the municipal sector had 30 billion in 2013. kr on book and at the beginning of 2020 67 billion. kr on book. So saying that the municipalities have suffered financially under this government is wrong. There have been solid municipal settlements, and in addition there has been higher tax input than what was initially estimated. This makes a municipality like Rana, which has very solid profits, do well. The fact that they are at the forefront of a rapporteur’s insurrection – well, it may have something to do with the fact that there are a few months before the elections. We set up a solid framework for next year, where it will still be possible to have room for action to strengthen welfare services in municipalities. We have also stood up during the whole Korona crisis, and I have been very clear that the municipalities should be able to provide good services both during this crisis and afterwards. That's why we have a good plan for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e107	It opens for follow-up questions – first Stein Erik Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e112	It is regrettable to hear that the Council of State for the municipalities is quite deaf when it comes to listening to those in it daily. With the Workers' Party's proposal for a State budget, the municipalities would have had about 3 billion. more to sew together their budgets with annual. Three billion. NOK is a pretty random amount of money, and it would give municipalities greater opportunities to hire, for example. nurses, teachers, nursery workers and midwives in all permanent positions. The municipalities would have more opportunities to support voluntary teams and associations, which do a fantastic job in their local settings. Back to the main protection officers in Inner Eastfold, who are calling for warnings, the municipality of Lillehammer, who goes in minus, and the municipality of Fredrikstad, who says that there is no growth in the budget – the council believes that 3 billion. kr more this year for the municipalities would have been wasted money, or the council agreed that 3 billion. kr more to the municipalities of the year would make it easier, for example. employing more teachers and nurses, facilitating the support of volunteering and facilitating the provision of full, permanent jobs to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e119	We have an income system for municipalities that will enable them to deliver good services based on objective criteria across the country, no matter where it is. We've strengthened the local authorities' space of action all the years we've been in government, and we're continuing to do it into 2021, so the municipalities are going to be able to give their citizens their good services and deploy resources where there's a need for it. But there are differences between municipalities. We had a debate on this also a little earlier this year, in the spring, where the representative Lauvås pulled out – if I don't remember correctly – Å's municipality, for example. They have economic challenges because they believed in a much higher population growth than they got, and they invested far more than that. It has put them in a difficult situation, and as early as January this year they set up a group to deal with the consequences of previous disposals. I can't, as a municipal minister, put myself in a position to do that. Here's municipal autonomy. The way in which municipalities choose to use their free income must be up to the municipalities. Then it's my job to enable the sector to deliver good services to its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e126	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e131	Like the Council of State, I am pleased that very few municipalities are currently on the ROBEK list. But it's not because of government policy, it's because of big profits because of lower demographic costs than expected. There have been lower pension costs than expected. In particular, there have been large exceptional incomes to municipalities as a result of tax adjustment in enterprises. But anyway, the result is good. Many municipalities have paid off debts and gained control of their economy. However, it is true, as the Council of State also says, that there are great differences, and that the Council of State is jumping into its replies to the representative, Lauvås. Because if we look at net operating profit for the previous year, for example, the five most populous municipalities have an operating profit of 4.2 pst., while the other municipalities only have 0.9 pst. So there's huge challenges out and going. I hear the Council of State says that municipalities have built up large amounts of money that they have put on book, but does the Council of State really believe that the municipalities of Norway are going to finance the operation, employment of nurses and teachers, etc., of money on books, and not appropriations on the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e139	I believe that having money on the book is a better starting point than not having money on the book. I hope the representative Sivertsen can agree with me on that. Then I am pleased that the representative Sivertsen disagrees with the representative of Lauvås. The representative Sivertsen initially draws a picture in his post that there are quite good times in the municipal sector and has been, but then the representative Sivertsen believes that it is not the government's profit. Well, it's at least a different description of reality than the representative Lauvås did in his post. So I recommend that the representatives from the Workers' Party can agree on the reality description in Kommune-Norway before the Questionnaire instead of afterwards. Having said that, yes, there are great variations between municipalities, there is no doubt about it, and we have to enable all municipalities to deliver good services to the inhabitants regardless of whether they are small or large. Then there are many other challenges that small municipalities face: that they have problems attracting the labour they need, and the professional resources they need, to deal with the situation they face. We don't solve that over the municipal structure alone, we also have to solve that by looking at municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e148	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e153	What I said was not good assumptions for the local government sector. I said that there have been good operating results in recent years, and that it is not because of government policy, but because of unforeseen income – this time for the benefit of the municipalities. We're happy about that. In addition, I share the views of the representative Lauvås on the regime of the government in recent years, for example. we saw last year that it was the worst arrangement delivered in 15 years. I am part of the fact that the Council of State is telling from Stortinget's pulpit today that he is strengthening the space for action of the municipalities for the next year. But if we go to the municipal association, KS, they have a completely different calculation. The Council of State said he's strengthening the space for action by $0.7 billion. kr. What he didn't include then is the line in the table that stood for enhanced action last year, which is about changes in pension costs. They're increasing by 600 million. kr. So you can subtract that. The KS also suggests tightening up the resource-requiring services scheme equivalent to 300 million. kr. According to them, the standard of maintenance for kindergartens is underfunded by 400 million. kr. It doesn't give you a strengthened 0.7 billion space for action. kr, it gives a weakened operating space of 0,6 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e162	In the state budget for next year, we compare apples and apples, from year to year. The table is clear – the growth in the real action space for municipalities is 700 million. kr next year. So it's the largest growth in ten years, except for 2015 and 2016, no matter how the representative Sivertsen chooses to count on it. In the case of manning standards and other requirements arising from landfilling and government, they are financed through the income system. This is the representative of Sivertsen. So it's not like there's underfunded tasks that underlie this. Then we have to look at the criteria of the income system, and we're actually going to do that. We have reduced a sample to go through the income system, which should be done from time to time, in order to ensure that it makes the best possible use of it in view of the actual costs of the services that municipalities are required to provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e169	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e174	The local economy has become ever more pressing, especially in recent years, and especially for small and medium-sized municipalities. In 2019 almost half of all Norwegian municipalities were in deficit. Indebtedness has never increased at the current rate. Municipal staff are jumping their feet off and still need to streamline and jump even faster. Local authorities have been given new orders and tasks without any funding being included, and the feedback from municipalities is clear, the challenges of balancing a budget have not been greater since 2004. It's a cross-political feedback. The right-wing rapporteur in Tin expresses great disappointment at the tight budget and is aware that there will be cuts in all areas of service. It is not possible to provide equally good services with these frameworks. The primary task of the county council is supervision and supervision. When the County is now being used to force through new discussions on community mergers, it is contrary to the will of the Storting. Why does the Council of State have so little respect for local democracy and the will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e183	I have great respect both for local democracy and for the will of the Stortinge, something else was going to happen to a municipal minister. Then I fully agree that there are many municipalities who know that they need to think about how they're going to solve the problems in the future, just because as a society we're facing some major challenges. We know that oil revenue is going to decrease in the years that are coming, and it will make us poorer as a nation. We also know that there are increasing numbers of older people who are to be cared for by fewer and fewer people — all the same — at working age, and that this trend is hitting the small municipalities hardest and first. In the interior, for example, we're already there that there are more people over 65 than there are between 0 and 19 years. There is a great deal of concern for many small municipalities in the Inland. Therefore, fortunately, we see that some municipalities now, for example. North of Gudbrandsdalen, seizes and sees new ways of organizing. And then I'd say it's not effective to run faster, it's effective to organize yourself in such a way that you don't have to run faster. We need to work more on this both in the municipality and state in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e192	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e197	If the health workers I've been talking to in the municipalities had heard what the council said now, I think they would have been really pissed off – to say it publicly. The municipalities are still in the middle of the coronary crisis, the employees are tired, the crisis continues, and the municipalities are sitting and now have to cut because this government has forgotten a bill from this year on. SV believes that it would have been wisest if the municipalities had used all the forces to keep the good work of infection up, keep people safe and avoid using their heads on all sorts of savings and efficiency measures, on which the Council of State clearly believes they should use their heads. In addition, infected work costs as much in municipalities that have not had a major outbreak of infection as in those that have had it. Why does the Council of State think that this is not the most important thing now, to enable the municipalities to do this work for those in the job, and for those in need of help?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e204	I believe that this is the most important thing now, but that was not what I was asked about. I was asked about the ordinary municipal structure for 2021. Had I been asked how to solve the Corona challenges in 2020 and 2021, I would have answered that question, and I would have liked to do so, because we are dealing with the municipalities in the demanding situation they are facing. Those who are out in the municipalities are in the first line, they're making a great effort to fight this pandemic. And yes, it is demanding, they deserve all sorts of homage from this pulpit and from all the other interlocutors around the country. When I'm out to meet the municipalities, it's also the first message I have for them. We have an arrangement with KS. KS has calculated and verified expenditure in the municipalities. They have taken this into account in a working group report, which we presented a few weeks ago, which shows that we have done quite well for the sector as a whole with the corona expenditure for the current year, but that we do not meet enough for the individual municipality that has had large expenditures related to outbreaks of infection. That's why we're going to get back to it in the ejaculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e211	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e217	My question goes to the Council of State Abid Q. Raja. The daily newspaper has written in a series of revelations about a Muslim afternoon school in Tromsø that has for several years had extensive cooperation with a Swedish school that has been fined for discrimination, gender-based education and censorship of the sexual curriculum. They have also written about the contribution of a Saudi rich man of over 2.5 million. kr to a Muslim religious community in Tromsø, and they have revealed hitherto unknown transfers of funds and the role of the Tromsø mosque in an international Saudi-supported network. We live at a time when the dangerous effect of extreme interpretations of Islam is clearer than ever. We are now paying the price for the emergence of parallel societies, anti-democratic values and radicalisation across Europe, including in Norway. This is what the Progress Party believes that we can no longer accept. It's dangerous to look through your fingers with activities and spreading values that can act as a poison in our society. Therefore, in the course of the discussion of new religious law earlier this year, the Progress Party called for – and supported by a majority of the Stortinget – that religious communities that receive funding from countries that do not themselves respect religious freedom should lose government grants. This law will come into force next year. Councillor Raja is also Minister for Gender Equality. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if he will take the initiative that the government is already stopping the payment of money to the mosque in question, which has been mentioned by the Daily Newspaper, and also to other communities with dubious links, activities and foreign funding that could be harmful to equality and other fundamental values in Norway. And: What will the government do to determine whether there are more mosques and religious communities in Norway in the same situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e228	The President is uncertain whether this is actually Raja's constitutional territory, but the Council of State is free to choose whether he will respond or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e233	The representative addresses a very important issue. As the president is inside, I'm not going to go into the constitutional. But I have noticed that the Council of State has said that they are now taking a review with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the various aspects of this, and possibly also a review of the legislation. That's what Ropstad will come back to, but I think I can still take the opportunity to give some general considerations as Minister for Gender Equality in this area. After all, I was here at Stortinget and worked part of the religious freedom work, which the representative mentioned. We know that religious freedom globally is under strong pressure in many places in the country from different religious groups. As a member of the Stortinget I was also a member of the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and just before I became the Council of State, I also directed their work on anti-extremism and radicalisation. I remember we were at the delegation meeting in Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, where we learned, for example. how some environments that have been given state resources have been given a foothold for some extreme thinking, wahhabism and salafism, and how it has contributed to the emergence of extremism in those countries. Clearly, these are disturbing elements that we see globally. I also think about ten years ago that there was an attempt to establish the northernmost mosque, in Tromsø, funded by – as far as I remember – Saudi Arabia, and they had only one claim. They were to pay, as far as I remember, everything against being able to send the imam for life, and that it was they who were to decide this. We objected to this – that is. we as society. I wasn't part of the Stortinget then, but as a representative of the Norwegian people, I protested and also arranged a dialogue meeting up there, and fortunately there was none of those plans. I believe that in Norway there are the following values that stand most strongly: equality, freedom of religion and freedom of expression, and it is important that we are alert and not naive in the face of extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e242	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I share his concern for wahhabist influence. The daily newspaper has reviewed all accounts of Muslim religious communities over the past ten years and has found 16 Norwegian religious communities that have received financial support from countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, Iran or the United Arab Emirates – all are countries that do not fully respect religious freedom themselves. A number of the amounts are in the million class. As mentioned earlier, the Progress Party has gained an impact on the loss of government grants in Norway by beneficiaries of such aid in the future. We have also been able to see through the Stortinget for several other things, including the ban on so-called Koran School SFOs. My question to the Council of State is what he believes the intention of countries like Iran, Saudi Arabia and others is when they give millions to Muslim religious communities in Norway. Will the Council of State advise religious communities in Norway not to accept such support?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e249	The President will once again clarify that this is not the constitutional area of the Council of State, so he is free to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e254	Some of these things, of course, the Council of State Rupstad will come back to, but I share the representative's commitment to this, that we want to have a democratic society in Norway where there will be a safe framework for everyone, and where we promote these Community values. As I was told, we know from the work of religious freedom internationally that freedom of religion is under pressure globally, as the Pew Research Center has shown, and from more countries than the one the representative mentions. Now I'm not going into any single country, but there are many countries where you have religions that put other religions under pressure when it comes to religious freedom. It's a job that the U.D. is leading, and that's an important job. Then I also share the representative's view of Quran schools as such, and I also had this as a theme when I was a magnificent representative, when we saw these matters in the Drammen. It is clear that, for example: to live in schools and to be trained religiously to self-government is not what promotes Community values in Norway. So I thank the representative for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e263	Silje Hemdal – for follow-up questions. The President stresses that the Council of State should be asked about matters for which he is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e270	There is no doubt that the Council of State is responsible for freedom of expression. In Norway it is allowed to draw and publish exactly what you want. Recent events in Europe have shown how freedom of expression is still under pressure from extreme ideologies. We have also seen how different politicians, editors and journalists have reacted to the atrocities that are happening, and how important it is to be uncompromising in the defence of our values and our freedom. The Minister of Knowledge has expressed support for Norwegian teachers who are now in this position. However, I think perhaps the Minister for Culture, who has a special responsibility for freedom of expression through culture, equality and media policy, has been a little quiet. Can the Council of State clarify whether he will unreservedly support publishers, cartoonists, editors and others who caricature, for example? Islam and the Prophet Mohammed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e279	Thank you for the question. I've seen in social media several times in recent times that I'm being called upon to answer where I stand in these questions, because I'm a Muslim. And if I am called for such answers, then ordinary Muslims and even those who are not Muslims, but who look like Muslims, are also required similar answers. I think it's okay that I then respond to this. Of course, I was born with freedom of expression, but was not raised within the framework of freedom of expression. When I studied John Stuart Mill and came into the Left, I also understood the importance of freedom of speech. It is the most important value in Norway. I think it was Voltaire who said, "I deeply disagree with what you say, but will defend your right to say it to my death." I want to say it this way: not only will you die for your right to say it, but it is also your right to draw it and press it. So I'm going to be 100 pst. behind Guri Melby's statements on this. All editors and all free people should be allowed to think about their thoughts, their external thoughts and print them – whether in word form or in drawing form.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e290	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e295	My question goes to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The centre party has been restrained in having strong opinions about the new government quarter. It is true that we all want to return to Højblocka and what was destroyed after July 22nd. That is why there was also a broad majority behind the big message that the government presented 1.5 years ago. However, that notification does not have an overview of the costs, and it cannot be that the Storting has committed itself to the use of money until the costs have come to the table. Now we've got the cost framework in the autumn, and it shows that it could cost up to 36 billion. kr to build a new government quarter. It doesn't think the Center Party is acceptable. My claim is that no government will be able to defend such a long-term use of money. 20 B.C.E. kr of these funds would like to bind the Stortinget up to now in the autumn budget, without having got a full overview of what all the individual parts of this so-called first construction step, which is going to cost 20 billion. kr, will actually cost. Right is a party that claims to be in the public budget, but here the Right can end up as a proponent for the time being in public administration. For a lot of people, it's very hard to understand that you're going to spend up to 36 billion. kr in government offices, while saving it in other parts of well-being and public investment. Neither Oslo City nor the districts want this kind of use of money. Why is it so important for the Right and the Government to build with the solution that can give us a cost of the government quarter that can be completely unsustainable high?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e311	No one wants to spend so much money on a new government quarterly. However, when we propose it, it is because the alternatives are few, they are expensive, and they are not realistic. It is important to stress that the estimate is up to 36 billion. kr means an uncertainty voltage of 10 billion. kr. Now what we're going to decide is construction step 1, which is 20.5 billion. kr – quality assured. Building stages 2 and 3 are estimated at 3.5 billion. So it's going to be 24 billion dollars. kr, taken together. Then comes the other surrounding projects, you could say, which help to increase costs, for example. To lower Call 1. I have also received a lot of questions about the ordinary Central Party Questionnaire, which is about the costs of individual elements. I'm going to answer them later, of course, but I'd like to take the answer here as well. The basic costs for construction A and D are 1,4 and 2,2 billion respectively. kr. The estimates do not include expected additions, uncertainty provision, construction costs and rigging and operation. The basic costs of other building step 1 insurance measures are estimated at €2.5 billion. kr, including perimeter protection, external mail and goods reception, real estate and damages. It does not include expected additions, uncertainty provision, construction costs and rigging and operation of these measures. Safety measures have been built into structures both below and above the ground, therefore it is difficult to separate and calculate them in isolation. It is good that the Centre Party is concerned about costs. When we had this case up last year, the Central Party Heidi Greni asked if we are in the process of being so space-efficient that we save ourselves, and the Center Party proposed to increase the building area significantly. It didn't get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e332	I understand that this is not easy, and the Senter party is going to be happy to discuss land standards and other things if it can bring down costs. The question is whether the government intends to discuss the issue of reducing costs with Stortinget. Because that's the feeling you get when the government is now facing the Storting almost to an ultimatum of approving the first construction step of 20 billion. kr already this fall, i.e. commit us for several years in advance, while also trying to defend a price tag of up to 36 billion. kr. I can only understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party must be more concerned with taxpayers' money than they were. The center party is happy to sit down and discuss how it is possible to bring down the price. We are open to discuss a downscale of the project. We are open to discuss that one can care for some of the buildings that are today. But the question is whether the government is going to push this through in the Storting in the fall, or whether you're going to sit down with Stortinget and discuss how to bring down the price of this giant project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e339	I would, of course, like to discuss suggestions that can help bring down the price. The proposals that the Central Party has advanced so far are suitable to increase the price, not to bring it down. I've also asked for a conversation with the representative's party leader several times, without him coming back to me, but I'm going to invite all the parliamentary leaders to a conversation about this quarter, so that we can discuss this issue more closely, and also what helps to drive costs up, because it's security. The basic cost of the new government quarter when it comes to security needs to be taken regardless of how many square meters you build on the top. Even if you choose to use some of the buildings that are scattered around the city, you still have to make sure that the quarter we are going to use at Højblocka, while spending more money to make sure that you are currently sitting with them, is permanent. It costs a lot of money. In addition, it will mean closed streets and major interventions for businessmen and most people in the city. So there's not so many good, cheap solutions to choose from.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e346	The President may state that it is Marit Arnstad who is the parliamentary leader of the Central Party. It opens up for follow-up questions – first Willfred Nordlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e353	The Council of State listed in letters to the Municipal Committee on 29 October, i.e. a few days ago, and three weeks after the presentation of the State budget, the cost of the various buildings. It's information that's at such an overall level that it should be better known, in the past. The reason why this is not done, and that this was not mentioned in the State budget, one might wonder, especially in the light of the fact that the government became aware of this in June, and the probability is that the resistance to this office desert would then become even greater. It appears from this letter that not all costs are included in construction stage 1 or that the other stages of construction, as the external quality assurance stated, will in sum cost 36 billion. kr. Then my question becomes: how much does things that are considered necessary to build the new quarter, in addition to the 36 billion that are outlined? And will the Council of State then inform about it, for example. How much does it cost to add Call 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e362	The estimate of call 1 is 2.2 billion. kr. But this is not a quality-assured number; we want to provide quality-assured figures for the Storting. So of course we're going to come back to that. Then I notice that the representative Nordlund refers to the new government quarter as «an office desert». It is a little different from what he had when we discussed the concept of the new government quarter here in the Stortinget in June 2019. Then there was a broad majority, including the Center Party, who joined the concept, namely that we should have an open, secure and accessible government quarter for the 4700 ministerial staff who will be sitting there. It must work well for the city, but it must also work well for the departments. These aren't going to be rough office rooms, they're going to be nights, modern premises. What drives costs up is security, and it has to be in place, no matter where we sit, because the Stortinget has adopted a security law. And let me also remind you that the Storting has been a bit concerned with object protection before.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e371	Jan Bøhler – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e376	It is obvious that it would be desirable to reduce the scope of development. These include: a decision of the Oslo City Council on that matter. One of the questions I have raised since I started with an interpellation – it was probably back in 2015 – to Minister Sanner at the time, is the further use of R5 and R6. These are the buildings where there are departments now, located along Akersgata, on the opposite side of Høybloka. Then the Council of State Sanner was open to continue using them for ministries, and he came back a few years later and said that one would have some other administrative parts of the government apparatus there. It would be important if you could keep these departments in R5 and R6. What I'm asking is: have you had any experience since 2011 – now they still have to lie there – in terms of safety or other considerations, which means you can't keep these departments – especially in R5, which is a large area?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e383	The answer to that is yes – in and of its own accord. We have good evidence to say that R5 cannot be used for department premises without the need to close Ring 1 permanently at the same time, nor can Akersgata be used as a collective gate in the future. It has some socio-economic consequences that are quite significant for Oslo City, and it has some consequences for the city's population, which I think we as Oslo representatives, regardless of which party we represent at all times, should also remind us. So in sum, there's a huge impact of choosing R5. Of course, it's a choice you can make, but it has great consequences for the city, and it also has costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e392	Eirik Sivertsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e397	Let me take the opportunity first to thank all the present representatives from the parties who helped to find a solution on the 22nd of July, and also the government representatives. I am of the opinion that when we build a new government quarter, it is not any building. It has to be one of the most important buildings we're building. After all, it represents the national power. I don't think we should save ourselves to find, even if it should be a sober, good quality. But I also read in the State budget that this is the most complicated construction project Statsbygg has ever handled. I then wonder: What measures have the Council of State taken to reduce costs? What measures have been taken to exercise control during the construction project? In public construction projects too, we have seen budget lines. Then I wonder if the government can mention some of the alternatives that have been assessed instead of building a new, comprehensive government quarter as the concept is now, which is cheaper economically, with the necessary security standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e407	To take the last one first: the evaluation at the time from the red-green government, to which we also joined, was that it was simpler and better and, not least, cheaper to secure one quarter than to secure many individual buildings around the city. So it was a very clear conclusion from an overall security environment, to which the red-green government joined, and to which we have also laid the groundwork. That's the starting point for us to build on the plot we're doing, and with the assumptions that are already there. We've scaled down the government quarter by 28 000 m2. We have done so, among other things. by reducing the land standard so that it now becomes 30 pst. lower than what we're sitting on today in the state, in the new government quarter. But it's still in line with that, for example. The town council in Bergen is sitting on, so it's obviously fully possible to sit well with the number of square meters. And then we have a new estimate of how many employees are going to work in the government quarter, and that's 1000 fewer than what we assumed based on the growth under the red-green government in the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e414	Helge André Njåstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e419	The Progress Party is sceptical about the use of money we see suggested with a new government quarter. A double square metre price compared to new hospitals, including equipment, testifies that this is planned too expensive. Security is also important for us, but it must be possible to scale down and use existing and already cost building mass. What I was going to ask about, the Council of State has already been a little bit involved, that it could have been even more expensive. The representative Arnstad said something about the Senterpartiet being careful, or restrained, with money usage. It was not the impression we got when we followed the debate when Stortinget dealt with Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Then the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party had the following suggestions: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the land standard to provide permanent office space for all employees and to provide a sufficient number of cell offices in a new government quarter.’ My question is, can the Council of State say anything about how much more expensive today's project would be if the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party had got a plurality for the proposal at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e431	I can say something about that. Our estimate is that it would increase the price by up to 2 billion. kr if it had been passed to the Centre Party during the landfill treatment last year. There were also many statements during the debate at the time that this was a quarter that had to stand in a hundred-year perspective, it was supposed to be a symbol building and we shouldn't save ourselves to find, to use the word of Mr. Greni. So that's new tones we're now hearing from the Center Party in this case. I think we in political Norway are well served by ending this project, because the alternatives are few, they are expensive, and they are unrealistic. All of the suggestions that are now on the table, we have considered very carefully. Had it been possible to save a few billion here and a few billion there, I shall promise that I had been the first to do so. No one wants to spend so much money on department premises in Oslo, but with the leaders that are located among other things. from Stortinget, it is not possible to get outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e438	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e443	SV is the only party that has always said that we have to look at how we can use other constructions and secure them, and that the premise that everything has to be collected on this plot has to be put away. I hear the Council of State again and again make claims that all other solutions are much more expensive, and that's about the same thing as we see in what we've been given now, i.e. just a few sums and some claims about how much it costs. In addition, there is little in the budget here — there are three or four sides — that this is one of the most uncertain, expensive and difficult things anyone has ever done. So in addition, it has to be governed by costs and not by quality, as it sounds like the Council of State is standing there saying. Does the Council really believe that the Storting can accept and adopt such an extreme project on the basis of four pages of a budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e448	The size has taken a decision on the concept itself earlier, in connection with a Storing Message where all parts of this concept are described. And yes, it's true that SV was alone to wish for another concept. It didn't get a majority. A broad majority has joined this. The size has also granted money every year for the last few years. At the end of this year we're going to have spent 4.5 billion. kr on the demolition of barley, on safe technical infrastructure, on the start of energy solution for the new government quarter and the acquisition of land for construction stage 1. So it's spent a lot of money. The size has been informed about this on a continuous basis. It's, I think, well-informed about the Storting all the way about how we've been going to solve this mission, which Stortinget has given us through the big message that you joined last year, with a broad majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e453	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e458	Enterprises and jobs in the cultural sector in general and within the scene are particularly affected by the consequences of the coronary crisis. Those who organize concerts, those who deliver light and sound, or the artists themselves have been in the midst of this crisis since March. When organisers can only collect 200 audiences indoors with fixed seats, it is clear that companies that usually live by organising concerts and festivals with tens of thousands of audiences are struggling and will not be back to normal for a long time. The hardest hit in culture is stage engineering production. The average is 80 pst. by the employees, continued to be permitted. But despite the acute situation and despite the fact that in 2018 the cultural sector traded for 39 billion. 36 000 persons employed, the crisis response to these industries has been systematically too small, late and constantly full of gaps and shortcomings. After months of opposition and industry protests, the compensation scheme for cancelled events was finally extended to subcontractors. But so far no one has received money. The compensation for the period from March to April is only paid. Only now the ESA has approved the scheme, and the representative received a response from the Council of State Raja that some of the reasons for the delay are about checking the applications, which were requested by the Council of State itself. I have met companies in stage engineering that are quite clear that this means bankruptcy. An example of those who are hard hit is Joker Sound, Light & Scene, a mid-sized subcontractor. So my question to the Council of State Raja is, what will he say to the people of Joker, for example, who are in danger of losing their livelihood? Why has this taken so long, and will the money be paid out now?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e467	First of all, I would like to say that the Korona has hit the country – and not just Norway, but the whole world – in an incredibly brutal way. It affects business, it obviously affects life and health, and it affects sport and volunteering. Of course, it also affects the cultural sector, and our task has been to deal with the crisis in the best possible way to ensure good enough arrangements for the cultural sector, so that they can be brought to the other side of the corona situation. So there are some things that actually take some time. The first arrangement, from which the representative is actually involved, has been disbursed, and the second arrangement increased by 392 million. kr. That means we had to find this amount of money. We were able to do that by moving the money from one scheme to the other. The system is such that this must be handled at ESA, just after the Storting has treated it, well notice. The store dealt with this and said yes to these packages that we had presented to Stortinget on 9 October. We have been in dialogue with ESA since mid-September about this, and immediately the Stortinget agreed to this, i.e. week 41, Friday 9 October, also started the formal talks with ESA. Until then, there had been informal conversations. Following the questions that had to be resolved, this was finally announced on Monday, which was – a few days ago – and ESA has today approved this scheme. Thus, today I have given a clear signal to the Culture Council to pay them approximately. 1.4 B.C.E. kr that has been waiting. It's not because the Council of State has been evasive, or that the Department has not worked, or that the Council of Culture has not been ready for this; this is about us having to follow the systems created for this. And, as I say, the dialogue with ESA started in mid-September. The size of the store dealt with this in week 41, on Friday, and immediately thereafter the formal dialogue started. Now it was clarified, and today the payments from the Council of Culture will start, when they have received a clear signal about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e476	We also know that from 1 January 2021 there will no longer be compensation, but you will switch to incentives. It's a major operation that's supported. But again, the stimulation system is not for subcontractors, and it will in any case not help those companies that deliver large concerts and festivals with thousands of audiences or international artists. They still need compensation in 2021. However, with the introduction of incentives, the government has now phased out the compensation part in the future, and this means that subcontractors will again fall among themselves. The council wouldn't answer what he'd say to the people of Joker, but another example is Oslo Kru here in town. It is a company with over 100 permanent stage technicians — a key company in the concert industry. They give clear information: they have no effect on the incentive scheme. They're living out of savings, and if there's no compensation in 2021, they're going to go bankrupt. What does the Council of State say to the more than 100 permanent employees in Oslo Kru?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e486	The representative says we phased out the compensation scheme from the 1st month, but that's not right. There are several schemes that apply, so you can go a little bit surr. The incentive scheme is 500 million. kr and applicable from 1 October of this year. Then we have told Stortinget that we want to have a new incentive scheme out in the new year – we have proposed it in the state budget – of over 1 billion. kr. Provided that the Storting adopts that budget, it will be another billion. So the incentive scheme was 500 million. kr. As far as the compensation scheme is concerned, we have extended that scheme until 31 December. It's the one that's been notified by ESA. There have been three treatment cases at ESA. One was the compensation scheme. It applies to both organisers and subcontractors. For the sub-contractors they have been in with 50 pst. compensation provided that they can document a 30 pst drop in turnover. This is essentially extended, but this is a framework system, so we have to look at how the different applications will come. However, the compensation system for subcontractors has been extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e493	It opens for follow-up questions – first Freddy André Upper Courtyard.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e498	Yes, there are many arrangements – I fully agree with the Council of State in that – but the point is that the compensation for cancelled events is phased out on 1 January 2021. For example, there will be: Oslo Kru, with over 100 permanent employees, goes bankrupt. The Council of State must answer that question. Another question: Yesterday the government announced – very nice – that they would extend the increased level of compensation for persons on leave until 31 March, i.e. a high level, but for self-employed people, the level of compensation is reduced from 80 pst. to 60 pst. out of the year, and it shall be completely phased out on 1 January 2021. Thus, when compensation is terminated over the New Year, many people stand on a completely bare ground. One example is Magnus Boyd, who is a stage technician. He has zero income in front of him now – the incentive system won't help him. This scheme is at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' table, but it is crucial for cultural life, and the Left has been very concerned with the self-employed in cultural life. That is why I have to ask the Council of State whether, as Minister of Culture, he has not been put through to the government in order for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to also think about cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e505	Does the President want me to answer questions about the Labour and Social Ministry system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e510	It may be the choice of the Council of State itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e515	The representative said there are a lot of different arrangements, and you can go a little bit mad at this, but we have, as I said, an incentive system now. We also have a compensation scheme. In addition, we have stimulated existing appliances with 130 million. kr, for those not necessarily taken by either the compensation scheme or the incentive scheme. So the state has had quite a number of arrangements. We also had the Ministry of Finance scheme, which was about cash support for the companies, and which also benefited from cultural life. So we have had the day-to-day payment system, which the Prime Minister has now announced is to be extended until March. Then we have the Labour and Social Ministry's system for self-employed and freelancers, which also applies out this year. We have always listened to the cultural industry, and I, as Minister of Culture, have made the necessary adjustments, extensions and adaptations that were needed in the first place. In addition to the system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the system of the Ministry of Finance, the budget of the Ministry of Culture alone has increased by 5.7 billion. kr to deal with the coronary crisis. For the first six months of next year, we've told Stortinget that we estimate the amount of $2.5 billion. kr, provided that the Storting adopts that draft State budget. Then we will have the means to contribute to the stimulation of culture, volunteering and sport in this coronary crisis that we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e522	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e527	What I've been trying to show with these questions is that yes, there are many different schemes that hit cultural life. They're important, they're good, and they've been fought by an industry. But despite the fact that I was in the New Year's New Year's in April 18 this year, I think it was, pointing out that people, for example. in the field of stage production, continuously — over and over again — falling between these systems and without compensation, the situation is the same now, and from 2021 there will be even worse. That is why my specific question about the compensation for self-employed persons was now. Such as Magnus Boyd has no safety nets and will be on a bar after New Year's. That is why I have to repeat my question to the Council of State: what does he say to all those in cultural life who are now without a safety net because the government is phased out the compensation that is still needed, because cultural life is still in the midst of this crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e534	After good negotiations with the Progress Party, the majority has chosen to extend the scheme for self-employed and freelancers this year. As for the government budget for next year, we are told when the Progress Party has started negotiations with the government parties, so we have to come back to that. I don't think the representative will get the details of this. The incentive scheme, which goes to the organisers, shall contribute to the wide lubrication of the food chain. That is to say, the subcontractors are also taken by this incentive scheme. So, to get a concert or another event, you need a crew present, you need a sound engineer, a lighting technician, a stage and a rig. So you don't just need a musician, you need a device around it. The incentive scheme shall contribute to precisely addressing the breadth of the cultural sector through this. We've put that in $500 million. until October, November and December. Now the applications have begun to come in, and the payments have begun to happen. We've also estimated that we're going to need about 1.65 billion. new crowns for the following year, provided that the Grand Duchy so decides in the course of its budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e541	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e546	It seems that the Minister of Culture does not understand that there will be less work on all those who are rigging sound and light to stimulate events within today's rules on infectious diseases. The Minister of Culture mentioned the business compensation scheme, to which he said that much of cultural life had access. Yes, some cultural actors do. But now some of them have been asked to pay back. When the corona rolled into our country, large and small cultural institutions across the country were closed in a few hours' notice. The scenes were emptied, the halls were empty. That also applies to all the country's cinemas. Our cinemas are the country's most used and popular cultural offerings, and we've missed watching movies on large canvas through the crisis. Many of these cinemas have received crisis support, but then it turns out that the tax and finance department believe that the cinemas being supported should repay the aid, as they were apparently not required to close, even though the authorities prohibited events such as cinema. Will the Minister of Culture clean this up, so that the country's cinemas don't go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e556	Now I am a little uncertain about what the representative asks. Does she ask about the Culture Council's arrangements and warnings to reverse the decisions, or does she ask about the Ministry of Finance, which may have sent some letters via the tax haven? Then we might have to come back, to the Ministry of Finance, because I think it is the Minister of Finance who has to respond to the cash support scheme. So if the President could clarify that, if the question goes to the appropriate Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e561	The President perceived that the question goes to the Minister of Culture, but Tritenbergstuen can get a follow-up question and clarify his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e566	I can at least answer something – it is right that municipal cinemas and cultural houses have received notice of conversion from the Council of Culture. They have been notified that they will consider converting their own decisions on compensation to municipal cinemas and cultural houses for the first period of the compensation scheme and requiring reimbursement. There's something the Cultural Council is dealing with now. As the Ministry is the Board of Appeal in those cases, it will be difficult for me to go into the details of this and advance this. But here the Culture Council has not yet taken a decision. They have sent notice of this to the parties and bodies, and they have the opportunity to comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e571	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e576	The Minister of Culture is responsible for the cultural offer that the cinemas are. Now that cultural events were banned in March, and the cinemas were considered to be a cultural offer and sought crisis support and received it, they receive counter-declaration from the tax administration via the Ministry of Finance that they should not receive such support because they were not required to close, and then you can be confused. Because the tax department and the Ministry of Finance say that the cinemas could have been open, they could have turned film without having people present. I'm sorry, but it's as stupid as saying that the hairdressers shouldn't have been shut down either, they could only have been open without cutting hair. So here I believe that the Minister of Culture actually has to clarify what kind of rules are really going to apply to the cinemas. And what are the cinemas going to do now when they are in a situation where they can go bankrupt because they have to pay back emergency aid because the Minister of Finance thinks they were not closed, while the Minister of Health shut them down?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e581	This is a compensation scheme which has been made available both by the Ministry of Culture and by the Ministry of Finance, and on the part of various departments. Some guidelines have been set for this, and the guidelines have to be followed. This also applies to enterprises – if they have been paid too much or on a wrong basis under the Ministry of Finance's cash support scheme, notice has been given of repayment. The Community funds made available follow a system of rules, regulations and, of course, if the payment proves to have been made on the wrong basis, these decisions will be converted. This applies, for example: The Culture Council, and I expect that this is why the tax bill has sent out the letters that the representative addresses. As far as the incentive scheme is concerned, I would say that municipal cinemas and cultural houses are now included in the regulation in order to apply. Although they could not apply in the compensation scheme, they will now equally be covered by the incentive scheme, and as Minister of Culture, I am very pleased that they will be included in that package of 500 million. kr, and may apply, provided that the other conditions are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e588	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e593	The easiest thing would have been if they could only keep the support they have already received. I am very well aware of the legislation in all the support schemes we have, but the point here is that the health minister and the authorities closed the cinemas because it was illegal to have cultural events with people present, while the tax haven and the finance minister now believe that it was not done. So I ask the Minister of Culture, were the cinemas legally banned in March, or were they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e600	It is true that there have been some regulations on closure etc., so you have to look at the different ones, because I think the representative's questions go along the lines of the compensation schemes. Here we also have the municipal minister present, and we know that the municipal framework has been compensated by means of beauty. As far as I remember, according to the first calculation, there were significant funds that had been given to the municipal sector, because there are many municipal cinemas that do not come under the compensation scheme of the Ministry of Culture. In June, the municipalities received compensation from the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. That's where I think the estimate was about 1.5 billion. NOK, and three-quarters of this was given, among others. to compensate the municipal sector for the loss of cultural and sport-related income. So part of what was given on the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernization has gone to municipal budgets to just balance the fact that there are some municipal cinemas that do not come under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture. That's why these arrangements are overlapping, and therefore you have to look at each arrangement separately. If the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury have sent similar letters, I think it is right that the Ministry of Finance answers the questions that concern the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e605	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e610	I know a lot of remorse as a cultural politician when it's so easy to turn up 36 billion. kr to government buildings, but so difficult to seal all the holes that exist for all those affected by the closure of society in culture and volunteering We've heard of some examples, and it's also true of all the cultural actors who have their market abroad – they don't get any help. Branch houses and town halls, which are cooperatives, receive no support. The event industry, which has made cultural life flourish, is in meetings, but is not heard. The free will asks that their teams who ask for small amounts receive full VAT compensation, so they get something. In addition, localities are completely excluded from the media support scheme. The media industry has said that this is going to happen, but they are not hearing. What should all of these do to be listened to by the Council of State? What should they do to be heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e620	These were a lot of different themes, and I think it'll take at least one minute to answer each of these themes. But I'd like to give a general comment back. After the Korona hit the country, the government has had a few goals in mind. One has been to ensure life and health. It's been priority number. 1st@item: inlistbox The second has been to secure our business and jobs, and the third has been children and young people. In addition to that, we have the various compensation mechanisms that we have had to put in place to deal with the coronary crisis, in order to make culture, volunteering and sport the best possible way of getting through this. I want to say with a certain proof that I think Norway is the country in the world that has put up with the most resources to deal with culture, volunteering and sport in the crisis we are facing. It's partly because we have big muscles that we can do it, but it's also because this government is taking culture, volunteering and sports the most seriously. That's why we're using these means, because it's necessary to bring these over the crisis. Then we have listened and adjusted – and we will continue to do that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e631	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e636	In Norway, not least, the Storting has contributed a great deal of money to try to help a very important industry and something that is important to our society, namely culture and volunteering. But it's incredibly hard to understand when the money has really come, why it's going to be so hard to get it? Why do you make rules that make it possible for someone to fall outside, while others get support? When these things are pointed out over and over again, don't I understand why you don't just go a little bit more fully into the problem of government, and most likely from the Ministry of Finance, and acknowledge the crisis of cultural life? This is probably incomprehensible to most people. Some get money, some don't. Those who export their goods abroad receive support, but not cultural actors who have their market there. What does the Minister of Culture think about the culture that makes them become unprioritized all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e641	The representative, Sem-Jacobsen, says a number of things that are simply not right – she says that the volunteer does not get the money. I think different schemes are mixed together. As regards the cultural aid scheme, it has been notified to ESA. It's the one that's been waiting. As regards the voluntary nature of sports, the Cultural Council does not deal with them. This is in the hands of the Lottery and the Foundation, and payments have been made on an ongoing basis. Early in the year, when the Koron met, discussions were about what income to compensate for when it came to volunteering and sports. Then, once again, we listened to the sector and adjusted it. That means you've compensated for 70 pst. of the loss of income for voluntary activities, e.g.: If there is a flea market that has not been held due to regulatory restrictions, it has been possible to claim compensation for 70 pst of this under that compensation scheme. It has been a fairly liberal arrangement precisely because this government takes the volunteer and the sports seriously. It is not correct what is said that the volunteer and the sport have not been paid. From that point on, I have heard that they are reasonably satisfied with what the compensation scheme has been like.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e650	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e655	Our nature in Norway is privatized. Forests are taken over by non-resident buyers or joint stock companies. But the Right parliamentary leader claims that there's no problem, the forest stays in Trendelag, it stays where it is, without thinking that both our footfalls and the oil fields would also be physically where they were, if German, French or American capital had been bought up natural resources, as Right and Carl I. Hagen wanted. Although right-wing government privatises everything from forest to railway, our country becomes geographically located where it is, but we become a poorer country with fewer jobs and greater differences. It's the equality and freedom that's now for sale. Right-wing sponsors shall have a short-term return on their gifts of money. The Community is getting poorer. The possibilities of normal workers and families are restricted. Why is it so important for the Minister of Agriculture and the Right-wing Government to privatise our common Norwegian natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e664	I thank you for the question. I want to say a little bit about what history has been like here. Since 2003, there has been no requirement for concession and price regulation for this type of purchase of forest – what has been an AS. Since 2003, the Workers' Party has also been in government for eight years and has not amended the legislation which made it possible to sell in Tøndelag, to which reference is made. If it was so important for the Workers' Party that it should not be possible to sell areas to owners with a foreign address, the Workers' Party should have been able to change this over the eight years of their power, and even a majority government. Then I want to say in the beginning: I wish this had been bought up by Norwegian owners. That's the starting point. Statskog also had an opportunity to buy this. One got a price indication of this, and one chose to go where the price indication was, but when this went far beyond what was price indication, one let go. In fact, the forest is still there, the right of the population is still there, and the ability of the population to use the land is still there. So it's not like the Norwegian people have lost the opportunity to use it, but there's someone else who owns it and is going to run it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e675	Three important points about the privatisation of State Forests currently in progress: First, 30 pst. of the land sold by the Minister of Agriculture and the Government of the Right, goes to a limited liability company or purchasers living elsewhere than where the forest is located. Secondly, the Labour Party is proposing again and again, and we will now propose again, to stop this sale. Unfortunately, the right-wing parties have so far voted against. And thirdly, we have at least tried to bring together the Storting and bring Bollestad that these resources must at least benefit local buyers and spread on several hands instead of ending up in a limited company – with a written question on 27 April. Isn't it time to pull the emergency brake, stop privatization and listen to the people's clock, which will ensure the common ownership of our nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e688	If we really believe that one should not sell to non-resident owners or to a limited liability company, one must actually change the law. That window of opportunity had the Workers' Party for eight years, but left it alone. So it could have been done. At the same time, I believe that if we really believe that non-resident owners, or private owners, should be involved in owning our properties, one must also think what other countries will think about us. Norway then has to think about where we invest our funds, and Norwegian owners also have to assess where one enters and buys up, for example. Swedish properties. This must be included in the overall assessment that the representative is now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e693	There will be follow-up questions – first Nils Kristen Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e698	It was former Minister of Agriculture Sylvi Listhaug who removed the democratic control of the prices of forest property, which has accelerated the development of more sales and speculation in forest properties. I hear here that the Council of State Bollestad is following obediently in the footsteps of the Progress Party without any sign of changing this course, which is wrong. Minister of Transport Hareide of the same party privatises the railway. The Councils of the Right-wing States take care of the rest, among others. with the privatisation of the cleaning team in the Defence. So the Council of State takes into account this privatisation of the community's values bit by bit when she worked to become part of the right-hand government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e708	Firstly, I have initially told the representative that I should have wanted Statskog to win in this bidding round. They didn't. At the same time, it's actually like we have a code on how to use the price. I think the most important thing for me is that the property that is now located there, which was bought by German owners, has an availability for the people who use it, that it has a use that creates jobs in trombone layers, for you to manage this forest. I don't think someone's taking the timber only to Germany. I think it will create jobs even where you have to manage this forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e713	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e718	Here we hear a right-wing government saying one thing, and that sells on. That is why I would like to challenge the Minister of Agriculture specifically, as we in Stortinget are going to deal with just a proposal to improve the legislation and the law relating to common ownership, Norwegian ownership and forest this autumn. Then we have together the opportunity to address some of the shortcomings that we are now seeing. Will the Minister of Agriculture then recommend the Stortinget to make concrete changes to the law, which differs from the course of Sylvi Listhaug that former Minister of Agriculture provided? Or do we still want to see opportunities for foreign buyers to take over more forest during a period when the krone price is very low, and that it will be very lucrative to take over property and invest in it in an uncertain time in the world economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e723	Firstly, I would like to look at the proposals that come before I decide on them. I think that's always wise. The second thing I want to say is that I am concerned with Norwegian ownership. But I'm also concerned with the management of the forest, because the forest is one of the most important things we have in terms of both the green shift, the ability to use the forest in leisure and to experience nature, and to take out the excess of nature's wealth. I think that's a common good. But I want to start by looking at what's in the proposals, and then I'm going to evaluate this based on what the proposals are.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e728	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e733	My question goes to the Minister of State. The government has recently been busy with the state of the future, while the Progress Party is more concerned with the role of the State. In the fall I've visited a number of local politicians, and there's one thing that goes on when I visit them, and those are the stories they tell me. In Kinn they say that the county stops a lot, for example atur path that is not completed. In Stavanger, the County refused to sell Billing Theme. In Etne, the county refuses to build a house because it's a smell from the neighboring garden. In Björnefjorden, County Council takes a rematch on previously approved plans due to a lack of building boundaries. In the municipality of Fitjar, the County Council is headed towards a floating bridge on an island that does not have a motorway. And – perhaps ironically: in my municipality of residence, Austevoll, the County Council opposes missing parking spaces on an island where it has never been a car. In Bergen there were two neighbours who were going to build themselves naked. One got yes, the other, in a completely identical place, the County said no. In Masfjorden there was a young couple who wanted to move home and separate from an empty one on the home yard. The county said no. And in Lillesand, the State stopped a garage that the local politicians wanted. For all these things in common, local politicians have been in place, they have assessed the case, they have said yes. The county has not been in place. He's been sitting on Google Maps and saying no. The government has sent a series of letters that the statesmen should focus more on local democracy. The last time Monica Meland sent such a letter. When we meet local politicians across the country, from all sides, they tell us that they don't feel that things have been better. They still feel that the State is too strict. So I wonder, is it time for a new initiative from this Council of State that local democracy should be given greater emphasis?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e746	It is clear that making demands for parking space on an island that does not have a motorway can seem a bit strange, I agree, without knowing this matter specifically. I am concerned, as the representative points out, that local democracy should be given a heavy place in its decisions. We have also sent strong leaders about this. At the same time, it is important that municipalities do a good job of planning. For very often, it is what spreads legs under what the municipalities want to do: that they have not made a plan that opens up for the municipality itself. Then it is County's job to point out that there is no agreement here between the local authority itself, and the municipality wants to do that afterwards, and that means that you have to make a planning change. One case in which it applies is that of space-consuming goods, such as outside Stavanger, as the representative mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e753	I note that the Council of State did not answer my question if he would like to take new initiatives to underline to the statesmen, but rather confirm that he wants to operate the regime where the State first creates problems for the municipalities when it comes to creating good plans, and then use the same plans against the local politicians. In the example of Bill Theme in Stavanger, the Council of State went a long way in confirming that the County Council has done things right. In an answer to a written question from the representative Roy Steffensen, the Council of State tells the government that he cannot go into legal proceedings because a member of the staff has decided this matter, and therefore the matter lies outside the control of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The party of progress has long been critical of the family system, but is the council comfortable with the fact that he has delegated the authority to intervene in matters because he has given it authority to a family member?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e762	I have not given the authority to intervene in cases where the County is acting in a discretionary manner, but when the County only carries out a statutory audit and a legal assessment that does not involve judgement, it is decided by the County Council. That's absolutely correct. That is why I cannot intervene in the case that concerns Bilthema in Stavanger. It is such that it is Stavanger Municipality itself that has created this problem, by making a plan that prevents Car Theme from establishing itself with space-consuming goods where Car Theme wants to. The municipality wants to dispensate from its own plan, which provides a framework for them not to be able to dispensate from that plan at that point. Then the municipality must promote planning. It's so simple and so difficult at the same time. I fully agree that where there is a question of discretion, the views of local democracy should be strongly emphasized. We have also communicated that clearly and will continue to communicate clearly to the statesmen – or state administrators, if you like.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e771	It opens for follow-up questions – first Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e776	The Council of State said that the State should place heavy emphasis on local democracy, but must also place heavy emphasis on this hall. The County is the State representative in the state and is responsible for following up decisions by the government. A few years ago, a large majority in this Chamber, on a proposal from the government, decided to build a four-field highway at 110 km/h from Kristiansand to Stavanger to link work, residence and parts of the country closer together. This was a clear and clear order from this hall. The state representative in the county, who is responsible for following up decisions by the government, chose in January to counter this clear decision, take a rematch and recommend that the road should be built as a two- and three-field road. Does the State Council consider this to be a good example of the State following up decisions such as government and greatness?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e786	It is County's job to balance various decisions that this House takes. This room takes a lot of decisions, and it's not always, although the Storting is of course a very wise body, there's a complete connection between the decisions taken in this room in different areas, and the County then makes an assessment of it. So it's the government and the Storting decide whether to build a two-, three- or four-field road between Kristiansand and Stavanger, and that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e791	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e796	Snow indoor leisure centre in Lørenskog, which opened its doors earlier this year, is an excellent example of innovation and courageous bet in Norway, which we should all welcome and cheer up. After a broad majority in Lørenskog municipality, with 44 out of 47 votes consisting of most parties, from SV on the left side to the Progress Party on the right side, it was sought to classify SNØ as a tourist site. The County said no to that. The result is inter alia: the sports store connected to the Snow is not allowed to stay open on Sundays, one of the busiest days for families to go to the slalom or cross-country skiing on the Snow. It also means that those who have broken a rod or lost a glove will not get to buy it on Sunday when they are out standing or skiing. This appears to be unfair and unfair, and it has already led to employees at the store being cancelled. Sometimes it has to be allowed to use your head and common sense. My question to the Council of State is whether he will take the initiative to ensure that the snow can still be classified as a tourist site, so that the sports store in the ground can stay open on Sundays.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e803	I do not know about this specific matter, but I can join what the representative says that SNØ is a great offer, also for people in the neighbouring municipality, namely this municipality. I myself have been on SNØ many times and think it is a good contribution to the offers in the vicinity. When it comes to the specific matter, I do not know if it is a type of case that can end up on my table, and therefore I do not want to intrude and comment on it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e808	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e822	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives Nicholas Wilkinson and Kjersti Toppe, respectively, to the Minister for Health and Welfare, are moved and answered according to question 19. Question 15, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be raised by the representative of Heidi Greni. Question 16, from the representative of Mr Aasrud to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Mr Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e838	‘After the evaluation of the six-year reform was cancelled in October 2019, it took five months for some in the Ministry of Knowledge to follow up on questions of status in the case. Former State Council Sanner has said that it was a priority task of the Council of State to follow up the further process. Information now available after the Newspaper's revelations shows an opposite image, that the process was trained and unnecessarily delayed. Can the Council of State explain what really happened in the matter, and what will she do now?"
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e845	I am concerned that the school should be adapted to the needs of the youngest children. The government has said in the Granavolden platform that we are going to evaluate the situation of the youngest children in school, and I think we need more knowledge about the school everyday life of the youngest children. The evaluation of the six-year reform, which Stortinget has asked for, is under way, and it is now being carried out by researchers at OsloMet. I would like to explain the whole process until the assignment of the assignment and also to disclose the facts in the case. In May 2018 the Stortinget came through Innst. 317 S for 2017-2018 with three request decisions for the youngest children. First, the government was asked to develop a knowledge overview of research at the youngest children in school, so that it could be used in the field of vocational renewal. Secondly, the UK asked the UK to launch an external evaluation of the relationship between the intentions and the starting school principles for six-year-olds, as expressed in Reform 97, compared with the current situation for six-year-olds in school. Thirdly, the Stortinget asked for the vocational renewal to facilitate and take care of the youngest children in school and the transition from kindergarten to school. The knowledge overview was quickly ordered, and it was completed as early as October 2018, so that it could be used by the curriculum groups that developed the new curricula. In the curriculum consultation, we asked specifically how the youngest children were cared for, and feedback showed that the youngest children were well cared for in curriculum proposals. The evaluation of the six-year reform will be based on the research presented in the Knowledge Survey. The Directorate of Education was commissioned by the 2019 letter of award to initiate an evaluation as requested by the Stortinget. This was a priority task, and the department therefore asked for further dialogue with the directorate. On 7 May 2019, the Directorate submitted a proposal for the design of the evaluation, and the Ministry joined the proposal with minor adjustments in letter dated 14 June of the same year. The Ministry clarified, inter alia: the evaluation had to provide a complete response to the Storting’s request decision. The mission was subsequently published by the Education Directorate with a deadline in October 2019. When the deadline for the offer expired, the Education Directorate informed the Ministry that only one offer had been received. The directorate’s professional assessment was that this offer had some fundamental weaknesses, and the directorate therefore informed that they would cancel the competition and re-examine it. This decision lies within the directorate's professional working room and the assignment they had received in the letter of award. The Ministry took note of the information and expected the directorate to follow up as planned and took the necessary steps to obtain further offers in the second call. In March 2020, the Ministry asked for a status update on the evaluation mission. Then it was already wanted again and had a deadline of 16 April, and on 20 May the directorate informed that the second call had been made, and that the assignment had been assigned to OsloMet. It is not common for the Ministry to intervene in the directorate's professional assessments of the quality of applications for research and evaluation calls. I should like to see more research environments sign up for interest in the first call, so that the evaluation could get started more quickly. However, there is no basis for claiming that the process has been trained or delayed as a result of political interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e876	I thank you for the answer, and I just note that the Council of State and the Government are still pointing out outside when one is going to point out why this process took so long. I am more interested in the internal process of the government and why it has taken time. The timeline for the government's work is, as the Council of State now confirms, that there was a unanimous decision in May 2018 in Stortinget. Then it went six months before it was taken into the matter by the government, then in the letter of assignment to the Education Directorate. Over the New Year towards 2019 it was quiet. It was not until April that there was a meeting between the Department and the Education Directorate. Then it had been ten months. The Education Directorate was quick, but the inertia in the clarification from the Ministry of Knowledge meant that it finally took 13–14 months after the decision in the Stortingen before the call was ready. This is the process of a matter of government itself describes as a task of high priority. I think it reminds me more of the process of Kafka. Is the Council satisfied that a high-priority task in the Ministry of Knowledge of a simple nature — that is, a call — takes 13 to 14 months?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e883	I have to say that I wonder a little about the response from the representative, and I wonder if he either didn't hear my answer or don't understand how processes of publishing a large research assignment are going on. First, you need to have a knowledge base to provide a basis for a call. This was done immediately after the decision of Storting was taken, and that basis was collected and used both when the Ministry of Knowledge was going to design its assignment to the Education Directorate, and when Udir was going to continue to make his assignment. At my discretion, the progress of this process is normal. What was regrettable was that in the first place we only received one tender. For the sake of speed, of course, you would want that offer to be good enough for you to go ahead with it, but then I think it's better to make sure you get good tenders, which actually ends up getting good results from, than to go on with one that wasn't good enough to win a few months in such a big research assignment. I believe that the presentation of the case, both as it has been in the newspaper, and now from the representative, is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e892	Then we disagree. I find it alarming that the Council of State does not take any self-criticism when there has clearly been great inertia in the follow-up of the Ministry of Knowledge, and that there is a lot of reason why you have not got this in place. I am nevertheless pleased that one of the decisions, as the Council of State also says, the knowledge summary, is actually in place, but more – also there – surprised that one has done so little to follow it up. In the knowledge summary presented, researchers are asking for money and resources to develop a teaching pedagogy. It is a purely knowledge-based recommendation of one of our best research environments in the field. It is the kind of recommendations the Council of State tends to like, but until now the government has not followed up these recommendations in particular. I therefore wonder if the government will now take concrete initiatives to develop a teaching-based pedagogy for the smallest children in school, so that these students can learn on their premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e899	As I also said in my post, the knowledge overview was ordered quickly, and it was finished already in October 2018, i.e. only a few months after the Storting decision. That, I believe, was absolutely essential for us to get the perspective for the youngest children into the trade renewal, which has been rolled out too fully since the fall of the year. The feedback we have received, both during the consultation round, when the curriculum was out for consultation, and also now in its implementation, is that the new curricula very much respond to what has been called for a more play-based learning. Then there is also the fact that we have now moved to a more decentralised continuing education strategy and skills-building strategy in Norwegian schools, and there is a great deal of room for both municipalities and regions to use the mechanisms we have to focus on developing a learning-based pedagogy. It is also very clear in the guidance on curriculum material, on the Directorate-General for Education's websites, which also provides a great deal of room for a teaching-based pedagogy. So I think it's followed up to a very great extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e909	‘The daily newspaper has revealed how the Ministry of Knowledge, with former Minister of Knowledge Jan Tore Sanner at the head, has trained the decision to pool itself to evaluate the six-year reform. This is serious. Sanner was initially also against an evaluation. When the department announced the assignment, two stakeholders came in, among others. one from Rambøll, who would take the assignment in collaboration with the University of South East Norway. Rambøll was called to a negotiating meeting that was subsequently cancelled. Can the Council of State explain why this meeting was cancelled, what was wrong with Rambøll's project the department did not like, and how could it go so long before the thread was re-recorded?"
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e916	Both the government's own platform and the Storting's request decision make it clear the need to get more knowledge of how the youngest students are doing in school. The task of publishing the evaluation of the six-year reform was given to the Directorate of Education through the letter of allocation for 2019. As I informed you in my previous reply, to the representative Tvedt Solberg, on 7 May 2019, the Directorate submitted a proposal on how the evaluation could be designed, and the department joined the proposal, with some minor adjustments, in a letter dated 14 June of the same year. The directions from the Ministry were given in the letter of award and in the written communication relating to the design of the order. This is the normal procedure when the Department asks the Education Directorate to outsource research or evaluation tasks. In such assignments, the Directorate carries out the call, and the Directorate also assesses the quality of the tenders received. The Education Directorate has been asked the question by the representative of Fagerås, and in reply to me they write the following: ‘This type of acquisition requires the Directorate of Education to comply with the Government Acquisitions Code. Therefore, the evaluation of the six-year reform was launched as a negotiated competition in June 2019. In the autumn of 2019, there were many announced projects at the same time. It may have resulted in limited capacity in several of the research communities involved in this mission. Unfortunately, only one offer was received, and, in that case, the legislation opens up so that competition can be cancelled. This is a very important evaluation, and it has an economic framework of six million. The Directorate-General for Education then assessed that it was most appropriate to suspend competition and re-examine it so that there was a real competition for the mission. Since the competition was cancelled, the negotiated meeting with Rambøll was also cancelled. Rambøll was informed that the competition was cancelled because there was only one offer, but that Udir was going to re-examine this project and that they were welcome to apply again. At the next call, the Education Directorate was concerned that they should inform well in advance of the call and that the timing of the call was to be good. An information meeting was held in January 2020. The mission was announced again in February 2020. The Education Directorate has now received five offers from different research environments and, following thorough assessments, the assignment was awarded to OsloMet. OsloMet is well under way and the first evaluation report will be available early in the new year.’ Finally, I would like to point out again that the Ministry of Knowledge has not in any way trained Stortinget's desire to evaluate the intentions of the six-year reform. There is no cover to claim it. On the contrary, we have followed up both the desire for a knowledge overview, arranged for it to have an impact on the new curricula, and provided an evaluation of the six-year reform, just as the Stortinget wanted. Now I look forward to both the interim reports and the important final report, which OsloMet will deliver in 2023. I hope we can discuss the matter and not just the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e936	As I understand the minister now, it was not the quality of Rambøll's project that there was something wrong with, it was just that there were few applicants. In June this year, I asked the Minister of Knowledge a written question asking for the evaluation of the six-year reform. On that question, the Minister replied: ‘Outgoing the task of evaluating the six-year reform for the first time in autumn 2019. No offers were made that satisfied the quality requirements [[...]] Rambøll's research project was to be led by first amanuensis Hilde Dehnes Hogsnes at the Institute of Education at the University of South East Norway, one of the few researchers who have conducted recent studies of six-year-olds in school. With her she had four experienced researchers, two of them are professors, both with the transition kindergarten school as their research fields. I smell that there are political reasons why the competition was cancelled. Will the Minister comment? I would also like to hear what it is about OsloMet's evaluation that makes it qualitatively better than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e950	In my post, I was clear that the Directorate of Education was responsible for both the implementation of the competition and the evaluation of the offers that came in. Neither political management nor the ministry went into and reviewed their professional judgement. It was a purely professional assessment by the Education Directorate that led to the termination of the competition, but we got a statement from the Education Directorate about their reasons. When they say that the offer had fundamental weaknesses, I believe that it is a very clear language. I haven't put myself into that offer enough to assess whether it's a correct assessment or not, but we need to have that kind of trust in our colleges if this system is to work. I also believe that for the youngest children in school, it is more important that we get a proper evaluation than that it comes three to four months later than it could have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e955	One might say a lot about this process, but one thing is at least certain: this will be an important and long-term evaluation, not only for School Norway, but also for students and parents. For SV, the basis for the reform has always been that one should take the best of the school and kindergarten and merge it into a preschool start in the first class. The school was to adapt to the six-year-olds – not the other way around. But child psychiatrists have alerted. Camilla Stoltenberg says she's worried that the boys are going to lose school. She's said that boys lose all through school, and that it starts already in the first grade. In addition, research shows that children miss the game when they go from kindergarten to school. I'm more than ever before sure that we have to do something for the smallest children in school. When replying to what they do, the government responds to the ‘renewal of the profession’. Can the Council of State respond to what she does – apart from the renewal of the profession – for the youngest children in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e964	I believe that the curriculum is the most important tool we have nationally to manage the content and the way it works in Norwegian school. I think the innovation is incredibly important to ensure that we have a school that contributes to learning on the premises of the youngest children. I think it's going to be very wrong to set up some sort of contrast between having systematic learning from the very first day of school and the fact that children are well-being and well-being. I actually started the day with a lunch seminar on reading and what the last studies on reading that have been done show us. There's a lot of evidence that those who profit the most from getting systematic reading training from the first grade are the boys and those who come from low socioeconomic status. So it's the children who have the worst preconceptions that profit most from our systematic training. Of course, that training can be very close to playing. There's no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e971	Questions 3 and 4 from the respective representatives Nicholas Wilkinson and Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Health and Health have been moved and will be answered for question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e979	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: «IN NOTIFICATION. Article 21 of the new Government Quartet reads that the government has placed great emphasis on the fact that the Stortinget should be well informed about the project. [[2018–2019]] The government now expects the Stortinge to adopt the first stage of construction of 20.5 billion. kronor, but discloses to a small extent how the amount is allocated to the different parts of the project. Can the Council of State clarify the cost of the total security measures at the first stage of construction, what is the total cost of building A and building D respectively, and what is the cost of the Call 1 project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e988	I can do that, and I have already done that earlier today, but I would like to repeat it to the representative of Nordlund, because this is important. It's almost ten years since the terror hit us and we had to start taking the government quarter back, which we all agreed on in 2011. After a long, thorough and open process, a broad majority of the Storting went in to build an open, secure and green government quarter, to joy for the city, for the country, and for all those who are going to work there. In the planned government quarter, security will be significantly better than before 22 July 2011. At the same time, it will be more open and accessible to citizens than it has been in the past. Co-location facilitates a more efficient and well-functioning departmental community. The government wants to keep the cost of a new government quarter as low as possible, but the restoration of the government quarter is a very large, expensive and complicated project. In the draft budget of the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation for 2021, the government has carefully informed about the work on a new government quarter and presented proposals for the start of stage 1 of construction within a cost framework of 20,5 billion. kr. The basic cost of building A is 1.4 billion. kr, and the basic cost of construction D is SEK 2,2 billion. kr. The estimates do not include expected additions, uncertainty provision, construction costs and rigging or operation. Safety measures are built into structures both below and above the ground. Therefore, it is difficult to distinguish and calculate the costs of this in isolation. The basic costs of other construction step 1 safety measures are estimated at 2,5 billion. kr. It includes perimeter protection, external postal and goods reception, real estate services and substitutes. It does not include expected additions, uncertainty provision, construction costs and rigging or operation of these measures. The external quality insurer estimates the cost of converting Ring 1 to 2.2 billion. NOK 2021. I stress that this is a preliminary estimate. The government will come back with proposals for a cost framework when the project is completed and quality assured, as we have also briefed the Stortingen on in the budgetproposal for 2021. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the representative of Nordlund that during the processing of the deposit notice, the Central Party proposed to increase the land standard to provide permanent office space for all employees and a sufficient number of cell offices in the new government quarter. The proposal did not receive a majority. In fact, it is good that the Centre Party has been committed to reducing the costs of this project when they themselves decided to scale up the project, which would have made it more and more dominant in the cityscape and not least between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1007	There was a lot to tackle in the continuation of the oral question procedure. What's really the main question here is: Now that the government is going to build for itself, you should at least have been careful. Based on the answers presented by the Council of State here, you won't. The Council of State also now presents to Stortinget a number of additional costs in construction stage 1 that have not been presented, of 20,5 billion. kr. It's really alarming. It must be related to the fact that there has now been so much achievement in the project that even a pandemic has not caused the government council to reflect on the need, stop and think about it. The government has already spent 8 billion. kr on investigations, consultants and preliminary work, and now the Council of State says that the government knows that the final sum is going to split so it keeps going because it comes to extra costs. It's unwise. A reduced and limited expansion would have clothed both the government, Norway and the Stortinget. Does the Council mean, for example: a basement of 3 billion is required. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1014	It is interesting to see the total turnaround by the representative Nordlund compared to the debate on the big message last year. Then he talked about this not being a building for the government, but a symbolic building that was to stand in a hundred-year perspective, a building for the country. So this has now been reduced to a building for the members of the government, while in reality it is a building for the many thousands of staff who work in the departments, which provide social-critical functions, and which has therefore been said by the Storting must be adequately secured. It's the functions that are important to attend to. The size has led through the Safety Act, but has also been very concerned with object protection in the past. It is the safety that drives costs up, and that security is to be ensured regardless of where the ministerial staff are – whether it is in the square, Victoria terrace or the government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1019	Safety is important, but it does not appear that an assessment of the necessary safety needs to be made. That is interesting when the Council of State refers to previous debate on Report. St. 21 for 2018-2019 and this with the spatial standard. Earlier today, the Council of State said that giving each employee a normal office – which we now see as being reasonable from the point of view of the protection measures – is estimated at 2.2 billion. kr. In this project, which is now rising rapidly to over 50 billion. kr, there would be a small investment cost for future reductions in sick leave and additional costs. The government claims that the Stortninget has been well and continuously informed about the government quarter. Otherwise, the right is very busy telling in the media what major projects they want to build. Quality assurance is dated to 6 June and the conclusions and recommendations were presented on 8 June. It's in the foreword, and the government has been familiar with this for a long time. Why is it important in good time to tell the public what else is spending money on the right, while for the government quarter, the answers have to be pulled out of the council?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1028	The representative of Nordlund has been presented with updates and cost estimates and also concrete proposals for funding in all state budgets that have been in the last few years, and the Stortinget has also provided funds for important actions and basic work that are now either completed or well underway. We now have an almost ready-to-use blank, and almost ten years after the terror, I believe it is time that we did so, too, the Center Party was occupied with last year, namely to take the government quarter back and realize this quarter. No one wants to spend so much money on this, but the alternatives are few, they're very expensive, they're not realistic, and they have great consequences for the city. That is why I think it is time for us to do this now, even though it is not desirable for us to spend so much money either. So the representative said we're going to spend 50 billion dollars. kr on this. It's completely wrong. That's 20.5 billion. kr for the first construction step, it is estimated to be 3.5 billion. For construction steps 2 and 3, total, i.e. 24 billion. kr for the three stages of construction. That's what we're dealing with when we're talking about jobs for the departmental staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1040	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of State: «Oslo Municipality has issued strong warnings against the size and costs of the new government quarter: «Oslo Municipality believes it is paradoxical that such large state investment can result in a worse city for the inhabitants, businessmen and public travellers. The primary view of the Municipality of Oslo is therefore that there is now reason to reconsider the appropriateness of the project. The project may be significantly scaled down.’;» Why won't the government listen to Oslo City Council in this matter?'
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1049	As mentioned, there has been a long, thorough and open process for deciding how to build the government quarter after the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011. The repatriation investigation was initiated by the Stoltenberg government in 2011. After clear advice from Norway's leading security communities, it was concluded that we were going to take the government quarter back, and that we were going to gather the departments in one place, with the exception of the Ministry of Defence. The investigation therefore ended in 2014 with a concept that the departments were to be gathered in the government quarter. It would provide better security, lower operating costs and easier cross-ministerial cooperation. The Ministry of Finance's external quality assurance has also concluded for several rounds that a collection of departments in a new government quarter is the best and cheapest solution. Let me underline: the Ministry of Finance does not take such things lightly. As a basis for the work of the regulatory plan, different ways of designing the quarter have been identified. The options have been offered for public debate before regulatory proposals with thorough impact assessments have been put to public consultation in an ordinary way. In October 2016, the Municipality of Oslo issued the following opinion on the draft regulatory plan: ‘Oslo Municipality supports the main action in the proposed regulatory plan for a new government quarter.’ It was the municipality's setting. Of course, this was listened to by the government, and thus the regulation plan was adopted by the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation in February 2017. The government has adjusted plans along the way, made the buildings less massive and facilitated an open, secure and green government quarter in line with the records of the Municipality of Oslo. We have taken into account the areas and buildings around us, precisely to make the new quarter an important contribution to the development of the city. Only in April this year, Oslo City Council decided that there are now grounds for reconsidering the appropriateness of the project. Let me add that it seemed more like an input into the debate on the Y block than a input into the debate on the entire future of the quarter. If we were to follow up that hearing opinion, it would mean moving back several years in time. There is little evidence that the project would be cheaper to re-examine the concept choice, to draw up a new regulatory plan, to organise a new architectural competition and to develop a new pre-project, also to match the concerns of the representative’s party regarding the costs already incurred. So you want to do the same process again and take the costs one more time. I disagree. If we were to continue to use today's ministry premises, the necessary security measures would pose major challenges for the population, for businessmen and for public travellers in Oslo. In addition, several of the buildings damaged by the terror have been demolished and the first phase of construction of new technical infrastructure has now been completed – both in line with Stortinget’s decision and with the support of the Centre Party. The reconstruction is in progress and should be completed so that we can take the government quarter back, which we all agreed on after 22 July 2011. We will continue to have good dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on how to design the government quarter and the perimeter protection in the best possible way for the Municipality of Oslo, for the inhabitants of the city and for the future ministerial staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1069	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One of the questions that Oslo, like the city and the population, is what the project calls the D-block. It is a massive building facing Youngstorget, and if you stand on the east side of the city, on the Youngstorget side, it creates a wall in how the city’s architecture – the city image – is perceived. It is in particular the Prime Minister's office to be moved to the D-block. The council argues with security measures and costs of staying where you are, but where the Prime Minister's office is now located, one of the safest places in the city is probably having the Prime Minister's office – the same as with the Ministry of Defence at Akershus – so I can't believe that the security measures will be more expensive by leaving it where it is, than moving it to the D-block. My question is, isn't it costly best and right to leave the Prime Minister's office where it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1076	Now I'm going to reveal a secret: the Prime Minister's office is very small. It's the U.D. that's the big department that's going into the D block. In the number of employees, the Prime Minister's office is not very many people, but they are in return very effective. I can confirm that. So it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is definitely the largest department going into the D block, and I don't agree that it's going to be a massive wall against Youngstorget. It'll be the opposite of a descent down towards Youngstorget. The wall was established in 1958 and is called the High Block, and it shall stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1081	I do not agree with the description of that city. The D-block will be much closer to Youngstorget and form a more massive façade. But I have another question. The City Council also notes that the security measures in the new government quarter will be unparalleled and more comprehensive than in any comparable country, as they write in the opinion. What we have seen in recent years is that the threat situation in the world and in Europe has changed in such a way that the attacks have to a large extent been aimed at soft targets and civilian goals, and that there have been much less complex operations undertaken by terrorists, i.e. operations that have not required infrastructure and extensive planning. We have seen that the safety requirements of the Government Quartet have constantly increased – I think it's 40 meters away in terms of security measures against bombs. Will the government assess these safety requirements in line with permanent changes to the threat picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1088	The size has given rise to some of the new safety laws — and in particular in the handling of the notification of the new government quarter — that the government is required to follow up. It's not like we're securing ourselves against yesterday's security challenges. Of course, we also ensure ourselves against what we perceive is today's and the future's security challenges in a new government quarter. It is, as the representative's party just said in the course of the review of the notification last year, that this should be a hundred-year perspective. We're going to have a solid and well built quarter that can withstand the tooth of time, but also the challenges that have to emerge along the way. It is clear that it is absolutely impossible to predict what the future will be, but we take the Stortinge regulations seriously, and that is also what helps to drive costs up in this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1096	‘To many in this country, it is difficult to understand that 36 billion will be used. crowns on a new government quarter in Oslo, a project that also doesn't want Oslo himself. There are many other projects around the country that are not realized because it needs to be saved, whether it be schools, hospitals or roads. Being sober is, of course, important in all areas. We have to be careful how taxpayers' money is used. Why is it important for the government to build with solutions and at a price tag that neither Oslo nor the districts want?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1103	It's important for both the government and the Stortinget that we build with solutions that avoid a new July 22nd, that we be able to secure ourselves against unforeseen events. And no one wants to spend so much money on a new government quarter, but the alternatives are, as I have mentioned before, few, expensive and little realistic. I know that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum has had a great commitment to this, I've seen it in the press. I have therefore sent him at least two SMSes and asked if he would like to take a talk with me about the government's quarterly. He has so far not bothered to answer me – if the ‘gidde’ is not a parliamentary expression, then I regret it – he has so far failed to respond to that contact, but my door is open and my phone is on if he wants to go into the prerequisites for this. I know that the Storting has been presented in detail for some of the assumptions that make this expensive, but that cannot be repeated in this open room, so here enough representative Schlagsvold Vedum knows more than what he gives the impression of when he raids this project in the press. We've had a long, thorough and open process, and elected bodies have gone in to build an open, secure and green government quarter. It's the security that drives the price of this up. The office premises themselves are becoming sober, but there are modern and functional office rooms for the many thousands of ministerial staff to perform a socially critical function. This is not something the government builds for itself, this is something we do to ensure exactly the social critical functions that the ministries represent. The centre batch has arranged for it to be even bigger – they wanted to increase the land standard – and we've been counting on it. The price tag to follow the proposal of the Centre Party will be between 1.5 billion. kr and 2 br. kr extra at the top of a project that is already expensive. It was also a wish to use much more wood, which would also bring the price further up. As I said, when we dealt with this message, it was not that the centre party wanted to hold it back, but on the contrary, the representative, Mr. Greni from the centre party, said that it should not be such that we had to save ourselves when we were going to build a new government quarter. It's been the views of the Center Party. Now there's a different attitude of the Center Party. But for all intents and purposes, I would like to discuss the premises for this quarter with the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum – my door is open.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1116	It's incredibly important when you're so lucky to have government responsibility, as you got right in 2013, that you're aware of your responsibilities. The right has managed this project from 2013 to today. So there's a very big difference between sitting with government responsibility, having that apparatus and running every day, and being on the Storting, where we get a presentation of what's finally going to be the total cost picture -- according to new reports, it could come up to 36 billion. kr. Then my question is, what has the Right done along the way to bring down the costs? Here, of course, there's a project here and a project there, which makes the costs visible. What concrete steps have been taken to reduce costs? We think it's an irresponsible sum of money – that's when the government invites the Stortinget to say ‘go’, and we think it's been too expensive. What concrete proposals have been made for cuts, and had it been possible to present them to the Stortinget, or have you not asked those questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1123	Unlike the Center Party, we haven't proposed scaling up the project, we've actually scaled down the project by 28,000 square meters. Among other things, we do. made by reducing the land standard per employee, which was the object of the centre lot. We have also done so because we have managed to maintain much tighter governance at the central administration in Norway than the Central Party did when they were in government. We estimate that there will be 1 000 fewer employees in the departmental community than it would be if you took into account the growth that was under the centre party. And here's a lot of reasons why we can really figure out a smaller area than we would otherwise have-- 28,000 square meters we've scaled down. Of course, it saves us too much money, but I would like to repeat that ensuring the government quarter with the basic infrastructure to which it is going is what drives the costs of the project. If you're not going to build part of the buildings, you're going to have to secure other buildings around Oslo, with the consequences and costs it has. So it's not going to be cheaper. The probability is that it will be more expensive than going in for this total quarter. Then we agree that there is too much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1130	When you see the D-block, which was discussed instead, and the move of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from today's address to the government quarter: What is the estimated saving if you leave the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there today, which is a historic location in the cityscape, and which has worked very well? What could be saved in the project if you chose to use more of today's buildings? And what is the safety challenge in the day-to-day operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now that you cannot continue to have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at your current address?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1135	I assume that the representative Mr. Slagsvold Vedum was present in the government when this was discussed under the red-green government, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was already on the move before 2011. The reason for this was that the cost of rehabilitating the building was very high if you were to rehabilitate it to a modern standard – this is an apartment building from the 1800s. In retrospect, the necessary security measures have also been put in place, which will mean that if you are to sit there permanently, you will also need to spend a lot of money on securing the building, with major consequences for the areas around, business and the city's population. It's also going to play into that equation. It is not that there are simple solutions here that the government has not assessed. Of course, we have assessed whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be where it is – it says itself. The assessment is, and it goes back to the red-green government of which Battle Violence itself was part, that it is safer and cheaper to secure one quarter, than to secure many individual buildings around the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1143	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Several instances have pointed to the possibility of downscaling the project with a new government quarter using existing government buildings. It can save money and build time. In particular, there is the possibility of continuing to use R5 and UD facilities on the Victoria terrace that are being developed. Such reuse will mean that several of the buildings you are now planning can be scrapped. In particular, the so-called D-building that in the cityscape will be a wall down towards Youngstorget and the eastern part of the centre. Will the government be completely unwilling to discuss a downsizing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1152	I disagree with the premise that the D-building will be a wall against Youngstorget and the eastern part of the city. The architects have given great attention to the fact that the buildings will go well into the cityscape, with the descent of the heights towards Møllergata. I think it's going to be a nice quarter that's in line with both Storting's decision and advice from Norway's top security environments that we're going to take the government quarter back and gather the departments in one place, because it provides the best security, lower costs and easier cooperation across borders. That being said, there will always be shared opinions about architecture and urban development, and that is in and on its own good. The representative Arnstad asks if I am willing to discuss the downscaling of the project. For years we have shown that we are. We've already scaled down the project by 28,000 square meters. Support functions shall be moved to surrounding buildings. Common functions such as prescription and canteens have been combined to ensure efficient operation. But while we've been discussing downscales, the Center Party has proposed scaling up. Just one year ago, the Centre Party proposed to significantly increase the number of square metres in the government quarter, with significant consequences for both the cityscape and costs. The proposal of the Central Party would cost between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr more than the government proposes to use. Further downscaling of the project will require the use of current premises. But today's department building is expensive in operation. Several of the buildings are not suitable for ministerial activities. And most importantly, they don't meet the safety requirements of the Storting itself. If the current buildings are to be used permanently, extensive measures must be taken to comply with the safety requirements. It's going to be very expensive, and from an urban development point of view, it's also not lucky to close several of the streets and remove the shops around the buildings in the square and in the Victoria terrace. If we continue to use R5 for government offices, Ring 1 will have to be closed for traffic forever, with the consequences it has for the city, and the 37-bus will not be able to drive in Akersgata. In addition, I have to remind you that before 2011, there was a plan to build a new building for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and move from the Victoria terrace, because that would make more sense. There is no good solution either for safety, for cost or for the city to do as the representative Arnstad calls for now, in eleventh hour. It is therefore not appropriate for the government to consider further scaling down the proposal for construction step 1, which is on the Stortingen table for decision now. The plot is ready in a few weeks, after the Y block, R4, Møllergate 17 and the S block are torn, in line with Storting's decisions. In order to assess future scale-downs, construction steps 2 and 3 should be submitted to the Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1165	This whole round actually illustrates that the Right has no willingness to discuss this with the Storting, to come back and try to reduce costs. They believe they have reduced costs and are now willing to add as much as 36 billion. kr on the table to realize the government quarter. It's a completely unimaginable use of public money to realize the government buildings. The center party on its side says that we want to turn all the stones, see if it's possible to reduce the cost. It's not acceptable that we can spend this kind of amount on the government quarter. I understand that Astrup believes he has made contact with the big group of the Centre Party. No, he didn't. I have not received a single phone from Astrup, and in fact I am the parliamentary leader of this big group. We have been open to discuss both what we have proposed in the past and other proposals, but the price of this government quarter has to go down. I don't think any government can live with that cost of $36 billion. kr in order to realize a government building. Is the Right ready to pay what it costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1174	If the representative Arnstad asks me if the government is ready to take responsibility, the answer to that is yes. The question is whether the Central Party is ready to take responsibility for the decisions that Stortinget has taken over many years, because the premises that the Red-Green Government also participated in, and that we've come here where we are now, where we have a very soon ready-to-use land, we've invested 4.5 billion. Infrastructure, site work and demolition. We're paying $4 billion. NOK in rent where we are sitting today, so it is also not free to not build this government quarter. It is presented as if there are some obvious proposals for scaling down that will save us billions of dollars. Well, it's not. And none of the proposals proposed by the Central Party will help to bring the price down. Rather, they will probably be contributions to take up the price. So the question is, is the Central Party now going to take the consequences of all the choices that they've been making all along, and be responsible for this decision as well? None of us want to spend that much money – none. But it's necessary to get back on track to the government quarter, take it back after July 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1181	Now the council tries to tie up the Storting by saying that the Storting has dealt with a big message, where we did not get an overview of the costs, and says that once we have dealt with the big message, we are also bound to grant the money that the government thinks this must cost at any time. That's not the way it's supposed to be. The cost calculations did not arrive at the table until the summer. They were presented to Stortinget only in October. It must be possible for the Storting to decide whether this is a reasonable use of money or not. The right-hand side also suggests and says that because we've used 4 billion. We are obliged to spend up to 36 billion kroner on planning. kr of the Community's means of doing the rest. It is clear that in such a large project there are also some places along the road where it is possible to stop and say, Is it reasonable what is happening now? Should we think differently? Can we simplify what's going on? It is not that the Stortinget is faced with a fait accompli because one has dealt with a cancellation notice earlier, where the government was unable to charge the costs of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1188	There has been a broad consensus throughout that we should plan and work forward this government quarter continuously and not wait for quality-assured figures for the whole quarter before we started making decisions. The Stortinget has joined in. Therefore, decisions have been taken to invest in safe technical infrastructure, energy solution, plotting, quarrying. All of these decisions have been taken by Stortinget. They discussed the concept and agreed on it. The centre party wanted it even bigger, they didn't get an impact on it -- fortunately, when we see the final price. Yes, of course, the Stortinget decides if they want to go in for construction step 1 and grant 1.3 billion. kr for construction start next year. It is up to the Storting to decide, of course it is, but what I point out is that it is not without cost to say no. I think it's okay for the Storting to take it into consideration. There's no simple grip here to save billions of dollars, and it's not free to sit like we're doing now. All it has a cost, and it has to take into account when the Storting is going to make its decision on what is going to happen next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1198	‘Norwegian forestry and wood industry are essential for the transition to a more renewable society. It is essential that the large ‘locomotives’ in the timber industries drive development. At the same time, Norwegian Forest Saugbruges in Halden shall lay down one of its new year's paper machines, affecting 50 workers at the factory. It also represents a loss of need for over 200,000 cubic timber. What tools do the state councils have in the toolbox to help Norwegian forest industry and Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs particularly further with the green shift?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1205	I have a great understanding that the situation in the activities of Norwegian Forest in Halden is perceived as difficult. There is a situation that is mainly due to a reduction in the demand for publication paper. There is a development that also appears to have been reinforced as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. I am familiar with the Norwegian Forest's commitment to finding good solutions in collaboration with the trustees. I think that's good. The government may have difficulty dealing with the underlying market conditions. Paper producers in Sweden and Finland must also close machines. Enterprises themselves must take the necessary business steps to adapt to changes in the market. The involvement of the authorities is to facilitate conversion and to provide good and general framework conditions for value creation. The country contributes with instruments to stimulate increased innovation and value creation through the industrial tool. Enova and Innovation Norway are among the main tools of government to promote green transition and innovation. Through these actors, the country offers a number of schemes that may also be relevant to the forest industry. The Government governs the instrument at an overall level, mainly through the governance agreements, and within the framework of these agreements, it is up to the actors to design programmes, to prioritise between areas and to grant support to individual projects. The government has put forward a number of measures to reduce the effects of the corona outbreak, and we have in particular strengthened the industrial instruments for innovation and green transformation. In the draft budget for 2021, the government proposes to prioritise more than 9 billion. kr for industrial research and innovation. We've increased the transfers to Enova. In the proposal for a State budget for 2021, record appropriations for the eco-innovation scheme are continued under Innovation Norway. So the government is pursuing an industrial policy that generally benefits the competitive industry. Our strengthening of the instrument shows that we are serious about contributing to green conversion. In this way, we also facilitate the development and efficiency of wood processing businesses and the development of new and sustainable products. But it has to happen in the business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1222	The Party of Governments, Left, talks a lot about the green shift. And it's clear that the world's paper production is going down as a result of digitization. But the resource tree, forest, is still there, and it is absolutely vital that we achieve our climate goals. In Norway today, we harvest 11 million cubic timber every year. The use of suction alone takes 900,000 cubic metres — just to illustrate the importance of these ‘locomotives’. In addition, we export 3.6 million cubic units to Sweden. The Council of State is talking about the use of instruments. What kind of instruments is the Council of State referring to in order to relieving Saugbruks, in order to secure these jobs, to develop new ones and to ensure that Norwegian timber is processed in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1231	As I had in my answer, we have a broad instrument that consists of different actors. Innovation Norway, Enova, Siva, the Research Council – they have different programmes that may also be relevant to this sector of industry. For example, Innovation Norway has low-risk loans and the environmental technology scheme. We have a bioeconomy scheme, we have innovation contracts, we have cluster programs. We have a Green Platform, which the government has now put forward to produce green technology projects. The research council has BIA, they have FORNY2020 and the SkattenFUNN scheme. Siva has her arrangements. That's how I can keep going. The point is that the government cannot allocate money to individual projects. That is why we have the instrument to assess which applications and which projects are best.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1240	I think we need to establish a sense of crisis here on instruments. Unfortunately, these instruments are not particularly suitable as a tool for a kneeling industry. The fact is that Norwegian forest and wood industry is there. The clock isn't just five to twelve, it's five to twelve, and this goes deeper than the fact that Norwegian Forest shuts one of its paper machines. It's about the use of timber, it's about the use of forests. What will the State Council do to ensure that these timber trains to Sweden do not go further, but still find their end-station in Halden and contribute to renewable products, value creation and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1245	It is true that this part of industry has difficult times now and is going to have difficult times in the future. This is because the market has changed. Consumption, demand, has fallen. That means they can't go on like before. It happens not only in Norway, but also in some other countries in Europe that we see this change in the market. This means that companies have to change, they have to find new business models, they have to find new ways to use their raw material. The government may not decide what to do. We can facilitate the arrangements we have for good projects, good ideas and profitable business models to receive the support that is needed and that are considered good for developing new business areas. But this has to happen in companies, because the government can't come up with new business models for individual companies. But we have a good tool and different arrangements to apply for.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1253	I will continue where the representative Myhrvold left off: «In Halden Arbeiderblad, we can read that the Minister of Industry commends the initiative of trustees at Norske Skog Saugbrugs, who have launched the possibility of avoiding redundancies, by providing training for employees for a period of time. Such a solution is estimated to cost about $40 million. Suction needs not praise from the Council of State, but political action. Will the Council of State take action to provide Suction Farms with the necessary means to avoid redundancies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1262	I have a lot of understanding, and I have also expressed a great understanding that the situation is going to be difficult, not least for the employees, where someone is now in danger of losing their job. However, as Minister of Industry, I cannot be directly involved in the management of the challenges of reduced incomes and demand by individual companies. I trust the companies will find good solutions in cooperation with the trustees. As far as support for training is concerned, I believe that this is about support for company internal training. There will be a question later in the Question Time – Question 17, from the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs – which also deals with it. Intra-corporate training funds were transferred from 2020 onwards to county municipalities, as part of the regional reform. The appropriations have increased, so it is up to each county to assess how they choose to prioritize and adapt their efforts to regional conditions. The involvement of the authorities is to facilitate conversion and to provide a good general framework for value creation. The government has presented a number of comprehensive measures to reduce the impact of the pandemic on industry. We have strengthened the industrial instruments for innovation and green migration. We have strengthened Enova, Innovation Norway and the Research Council, which have schemes to promote green transition and innovation. New schemes are also in place for firms to apply for which capital is available. We've also put a lot of effort on the road, on the track, on efficient transport. We prioritise clusters, good test facilities through the catapult system, the environmental technology system is strengthened, we grant pilot and demonstration projects, Nysnø climate investment has increased its capital significantly, and an export action plan has recently been presented to stimulate increased exports. The government is pursuing an industrial policy that benefits the competitive industry, such as Norwegian Forest. The significant strengthening of the business-oriented instrument shows and provides opportunities for conversion, sustainability and value creation and profitable jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1275	The Council of State indicates that the government cannot engage in individual businesses, but that is not what I or the company or the trustees ask for. What we're asking for is that the tool should be in place. The funds allocated to intra-corporate training are simply not sufficient. Another important point of the matter is that we see that the large industrial companies do not benefit from the internal training system, as it is today. The Workers' Party has promoted early in our proposal that BIO funds should be a real alternative to avoiding lay-offs in large industrial companies, but we see that this is not the way it is happening today. As it is now, we see that they have no means of avoiding redundancies, and the BIO funds do not benefit large industrial companies that are used to suction. Does the Council of State think it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1282	First, I want to say that education and training are always a good thing. It's never wasted, it's always useful. So I think it's good with that kind of initiative. So it is now that those instruments are not in my portfolio, but this will also be answered by the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs when he has received a question directly addressed to it. I think we have a broad instrument that provides opportunities to assess concrete and good projects. This does not mean that there are no challenges here, because there is a company in a situation where the market is failing, where demand is smaller, where they need to find new things to do, where they need to find new business models, new markets. It is a huge challenge for an enterprise, but it is not the government that can sit and assess individual applications, individual projects. That's why we have an instrument, because they have the competence to assess which projects are good enough to receive support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1291	But that's exactly what's the problem. We don't have the instrument today. We may have the instrument in the long term for some companies, but not when it burns, and not when the crisis has first occurred, like for Saugbruks, who now want to avoid redundancies. The possibility of actually being able to transform workers and ensure that you do not get into unemployment is not there. The community, the community and the government do not set up. We don't see the BIO funds stretching, and they're not a real alternative. The government has the ability to change it. One could meet, and one could make sure that for a period of time one had the opportunity to convert the workstock instead of going to dismissals. The government's answer is not to look at those solutions. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1298	Through several budgets, not least through the budget we have now presented, the government has considerably strengthened the instrument. We have given significantly more money to the Research Council, we have given more money to Innovation Norway, we have given more money to Enova, to Siva. We have set up a new, green platform where these actors act together, just to be able to offer a platform to the new, to the green, to the digital projects that will create new, green jobs in the future. I cannot stand here and say that applications submitted by Norwegian Forest are not good enough or good enough. That's why we have an instrument. They are the ones who have to assess concrete applications that come. We can only facilitate that we have an instrument that has resources and that has the competence to make those assessments. But the very idea, the business development itself, the transformation itself must take place in the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1308	‘Restrictions on travel imposed by the authorities have led to the disappearance of the customer base in travel life, at risk of 170 000 jobs. The government has followed up with a new crisis package for travel life of $1.4 billion. However, these appropriations will not help to actually save businesses and jobs if long-term measures are not also in place. I therefore believe that we need to take measures to ensure that we have a travel life in Norway. What does the Council of State intend to do to save the tourism industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1315	It's tempting to say that a vaccine is what we also need for the travel industry. It's right that the representative picks up, travel life is among the industries that are the hardest hit by the pandemic. This has resulted in a major demand failure in all parts of the industry. At the same time, there is uncertainty about the longer time horizon. It is expected that parts of the customer base will come back when the disease protection measures are repealed. At the same time, we will also be able to see long-term and permanent changes in demand. The government is committed to providing the tourism industry in a good way. We have put in place comprehensive business crisis packages across the country, and this autumn we have proposed several measures specifically aimed at the tourism industry. We have already, even after the representative asked this question, adjusted the device to the largest system because of the latest developments in the infection situation. We've lowered the entry threshold, we've increased the grant, and we've extended the scheme out of February. I think this is a good example of how the government follows developments closely, and how we adapt the instruments so that they meet where the need is greater, while at the same time providing better predictability for the industry. In total, the government is now proposing a frame of 2.8 billion. kr to the compensation scheme by February next year. At the same time, we've done 500 million. kr for conversion and business development in travel. Innovation Norway reports a high interest in the scheme, which will contribute to the development of new travel life products and adaptation to the future. Sustainable travel will henceforth be the key to Norway’s ability to be an attractive destination even after the pandemic. On 1 March, Innovation Norway, under the mandate of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, shall present a national travel strategy. It is a process involving travel companies, local authorities, the knowledge environment and individual enterprises. This strategy will provide us with a knowledge-based basis to further develop Norway as a travel destination and help the public and industry to work together to create a more competitive and sustainable travel life. It is essential that, after the crisis, we also have a travel life in Norway, a travel life that is adapted to new travel habits and new demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1326	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is positive that one in any case has been looking a little further than the New Year – in February. But I could have thought that one was more offensive, so that when the vaccine comes – I choose to express myself like that – Norway could be a country that is very attractive. We have control of the infection situation in our own countries compared to many others; we have good space; we have amazing natural experiences we can sell. We can actually strengthen ourselves, but then the key is that the travel operators must be ready to sell Norway when that time comes, not fight for their own survival. One of the major challenges they now face is all the guarantees they have to provide to the Travel Guarantee Fund. We know that almost all of the money that the Council of State has consulted will be used to provide a guarantee on a closed account if one does not find a solution to relieve warranty liability. It is the great pleasure that the Council of State must resolve in the short term in order for us to meet the future and sell Norway when, hopefully, the pandemic is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1331	There are various issues here, and what the representative addresses now is perhaps most related to the Travel Guarantee Fund and the part of the industry that the seller travels where a guarantee is required. There it is clear that there is a different market to get such a guarantee now than it was before the pandemic. The means we have now made available to all the travel businesses in the country will be able to benefit from this scheme if they have the trade that the scheme requires to enter. This means that they can just stay liquid through the crisis. It makes them still there when people start traveling again. This is an industry that's not on the lat side, this is an industry that has folded up the sleeves, this is an industry that looks forward and is eager to get guests again, and that wants to offer an even better product after the corona than they had before. So even though it's difficult times, I'm optimistic on behalf of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1338	I wonder if the Council of State did not listen to my question – when one is unwilling to answer if one is willing to relieve the guarantee liability that will come. It's not that there are only some operators in the travel industry like this, this connects the whole chain. Is a travel agent in that scheme, is a dependent on the whole chain, one depends on the district work places that offer product during the package journey, one depends on the hotel, one depends on the aircraft. Everything is related to everything. It's an entire chain that's in play here. The problem is that you have to set these guarantees quite quickly. Then all the liquidity that is introduced into travel life will have to be guaranteed, unless one can find a solution, such as: that they can extend these guarantees for a shorter period, so that the travel life can be offensive and look forward - do not take the time to survive and find those who have the guarantee responsibility. So I ask again, is the Council of State willing to find a solution, so that one can solve the issue of the guarantee position that will soon expire? It's a huge challenge for the whole chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1345	We have already spent considerable money on the Travel Guarantee Fund and on the package tour operators. The government and the Storting have shown that you are also willing to stand up for that part of your travel life. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and the Ministry of Children and the Ministry of Family Affairs also have good dialogue with regard to the Travel Guarantee Fund and its issues. At the same time, it is also challenging to use public money to provide such guarantees for an industry operating within that regulatory framework. But that's something we've spent money on so far. We are spending considerable money on travel in general, and we are following the situation closely in the future and continuously assessing the need for new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1354	‘Norwegian Forest is in a difficult situation due to a strong fall in the market for newspaper and magazine paper under the coronary apathy. On top of this comes exceptional corona costs that have not been compensated, logistical challenges and uncertainty about future framework conditions in Norway. One of three paper machines at Saugbruks in Halden has been adopted closed. At the same time, there are great opportunities for billions of investments in Norway that can provide significant societal benefits. How will the government contribute to the conversion process that can increase Norwegian value creation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1361	Initially, I would like to point out that the government has invested in good general framework conditions and instruments that together contribute to a green transition. It is also good for the whole range of competitive industries, as is the forest industry. The coronary apnea is global. It has affected export-oriented industry, such as Norwegian Forest paper production, and other Nordic paper producers report that several paper machines are now shut down as demand falls. The international market conditions are not something that the government can do about. In such cases, we must assume that the companies themselves take the necessary steps, and that they take responsibility for the development of new business opportunities, new production. I know that Norwegian Forest is working on projects that can provide a basis for profitable future production. The holding has, among other things: support from Enova for energy efficiency improvement and Innovation Norway has contributed to support the development of fibre composites. The government has presented many important measures for the competitive industry and to reduce the effects of the coronary apathy. We have contributed more measures to improve access to capital. We have strongly strengthened the industrial instruments for innovation and green transformation. In the draft budget for 2021, the government proposes to prioritise more than 9 billion. kr for industrial research and innovation. The Eco-Technology Scheme has been strengthened. We provide grants for pilot and demonstration projects. The catapult system provides for testing, verification and demonstration of new products and processes in industry. We are betting on efficient infrastructure. We have Nysnø Climate investment, to which we have increased capital. We have presented an export action plan in the autumn to stimulate increased exports and to improve the rustiness of the industry when the effects of the pandemic lie. We have had a lot of attention on the framework conditions for the competitive industry. We have schemes that contribute to green conversion, and it is also important for the woodworking industry and for companies to develop new sustainable products that we have a good tool that has significant financial strength and that has the competence to assess good projects when applying for support.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1372	The wood processing industry, which is incredibly important for Norway, is in crisis, not only in Norway but also in our neighbouring country. The paper machines are being closed, factories are being decided upon, but at the same time, in that crisis, it is important to think about conversion. This is done by major actors in the woodworking industry, including in the Norwegian Forest Group, where, for example, plans have been made for a long time in France and Austria, where it is 3 to 4 billion. kr. It's not little picks. It's about big investment, and then the question is, how will the state contribute to it? The centre party has pointed out that we must have a green investment company. We should have had an industrial bank. We need to ensure safe access to raw materials for industry in Norway, and we need to take care of the professionals through the crisis. How will the government, through new instruments and strategic approaches, secure the woodworking industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1377	There's a lot of exciting happening in the industry. The three-processing industry is in crisis because the market has changed. There are also many exciting new business areas that work across the whole country. I can mention a battery factory in Northernland. I can mention hydrogen. There's a lot of exciting happening and a lot of positive. One of the things the government has done in this state budget is that we have given money to the new Green Platform. There is a platform where our tool combines to support projects throughout the whole phase of development, from research to commercialisation. Then innovation is Norway there. The Research Council is there. Siva's there. Enova shall be connected. Together they have a force that enables us to accomplish much that is important to the industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1382	There are many fine words here, but it is about concrete action. The answers that the government has given so far today are the ultimate example of the industry neutrality that the government stands for. When the Council of State is specifically challenged by what we are going to do to take care of the woodworking industry that we have in Norway, she shifts responsibility away and says that it is not something that I as the Council of State can take responsibility for; it is some case handler in some instrument. Here's a way of granting money, and now we've heard before today in 36 billion. kr to a new government quarter in Oslo. One has to use maybe 50 billion. NOK in a new hospital in Oslo and lay down Ullevål hospital. What is the government's intention to facilitate strategically, so that we can use Norwegian timber in Norway for processing through factories, and not just talk about new platforms? In concrete terms, how are we going to take care of the industrial locomotives we have and develop them for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1387	Yes, there are some differences in industrial policy between today's government and the red-green option. It seems to me that the red-greens want to go in with state capital. They believe that the state can solve all the challenges we face in the future when it comes to competitive industry. I don't mean that. I think the solutions have to be found out there. I think the creative power must come from below. I believe that the state should facilitate good general arrangements, where the good projects can be supported. The State cannot file individual applications from different companies. That's why we have an instrument. What we can do, and what we're doing is we're going to grant 1 billion. to the Green Platform, precisely in order to support the good projects, from the outset to commercialisation. But the creativity, the ideas, the initiative, must come from the companies themselves. The State cannot decide what will succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1395	‘The centre party wants to move more goods from road to road. Some measures to achieve this are expensive, but there are interventions that do not require large investments but provide considerable benefits. Better use of the eastern line of Eastfold is a cheap and useful measure. Norwegian Forest Saugbruks, together with other actors in Eastfold and experts, has shown that opening up freight trains on the eastern line all the way to Sarpsborg will be socially viable. Will the Council of State take the initiative to open the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway for freight between Mysen/Rakkestad and Sarpsborg?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1402	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Fasterøne, for his question. Freight traffic on the Eastfold Railway’s eastern line between Rakkestad and Sarpsborg was cancelled in the summer of 2002 and there has been no out-of-line scheduled freight traffic since the early 2000s. The track was later operated by freight trains for periods when the western line was closed, until the conversion of the new signalling system, ERTMS, which started in 2014/2015. All freight trains and passenger trains intended to operate on an outward line must have ERTMS on-board equipment. Freight train capacity is lower on the east line than on the west line, and the path does not have the same default. However, the track can play a role in freight transport in the corridor, initially for periods when the western line is closed due to the development of double tracks. The Railway Directorate and Bane NOR have for a long time met and had a dialogue with the woodworking industry in the former Eastfold counties on the challenges they face with rail transport to Sarpsborg and Halden for long periods, especially during the summer months. On that basis, last year, the Railway Directorate asked Bane NOR to sort out the Eastfold Railway's eastern line for restricted freight traffic. The distribution, which was completed in June of this year, is divided into three stages, based on the infrastructure measures in question: Step 1: strictly necessary measures Step 2: additional organisation Step 3: regular freight traffic The distribution does not include the preparation of a cost estimate, and therefore there is no discussion or position on funding, progress and priorities for other projects and actions. Bane NOR is now working on these questions, with a view to providing the Railway Directorate with feedback at the end of November. Hopefully, the Directorate will then know more about what to do in order to get freight traffic on an outbound route in the short term. As a result of increased traffic on the west line, the carriage of freight on routes over the east line will in the long term be necessary for the first time in parts of the day. This requires increased capacity, mainly between Ski and Wyatt, in the form of new or extended crossing tracks, and the entire contact line system needs to be renewed. The establishment of the eastern line's separation between Ski and Kråkstad is an arrangement for the regular carriage of freight over the eastern line. So there's now a work going on to evaluate just the east line and the possibility of freight traffic for periods, for example. in parts of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1427	The eastern line of the Eastfold Railway is 79 km long. It goes from Ski to Sarpsborg. The track passes through Østfold via Ashim, Mysen and Rakkestad and has links directly to Halden in Sarpsborg. The eastern line was opened in 1882, became electric in 1958, and got a new ERTMS system in 2015. The track is at the heart of the timber operation area and will be an important transport year for the exploitation of timber in Norway. That's what they call facts. Int. 357 S for 2018–2019, on the reopening of the eastern line, wrote an overall Transport Committee: ‘The Committee believes that more measures are needed to move more goods from road to road. The Committee would point out that, inter alia: Borregaard in Sarpsborg and the Norwegian Forest Saugbruksföreningen in Halden point to the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway as important to reduce transport costs». How does the Council of State interpret the majority comments in this matter? Aren't they of such a nature that the reopening of this distance is progressing?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1439	Then I think that a joint committee should be pleased with the embassy I came with now. There is now a work being done, as requested by the Directorate-General for Railways, to look at measures to achieve this. Of course, we need to know what the cost of this is, but there was nothing in my answer that suggested that there would be no activity here on the outside. The Railway Directorate has asked for a three-phase package of measures. I don't know what the economy of this is. I think that also a joint committee will know before one should take a final position on that. But everything is in place for it to be possible to contribute to the take-up of freight by the east line. We'll need that. We're going to do something with the west line, we're going to do double tracks, and then we need that activity. That's what I said in my answer. So I think a joint committee is happy with both the question that the representative Constanterone is asking, and the answer I've given.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1446	But it's too late. That's what we said in 2019, and nothing has happened. The problem now is that Norwegian Forest Saugbruks shuts one of its three paper machines in 2021. So we need action now. I was in Eastfold two weeks ago – that's when it's needed. The freight transport is absolutely crucial, and for those we're talking about now, 20 pst is. the costs of transport. It is therefore so important for the Eastfold industry that one year can be used quickly. My question is simply: will the Council of State, as part of a college, gather their own and try to get ahead of this? What is needed now is a fast-opening transport vein that can help to save the operation that everyone wants. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1451	In June, I received a three-step proposal on my desk, through the work that Bane NOR has done. It was Step 1: strictly necessary measures Step 2: additional organisation Step 3: regular freight traffic However, no economic estimate has been made, and no decision has been taken on funding and therefore further progress. It's happening now. There will be work on this at the end of November, and we are already in November. So there's been a lot of progress on this from when the committee asked for this work. So, naturally, we have to have a basis to take a final position on this. But as I said, I think that the east line should be opened for this type of activity. I also think that there has been a good follow-up to what a joint committee has said in this matter. There is a professional basis, but we have to know the price before we finally say yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1471	‘In extension cases, the concept of socio-economic benefit is a determining factor. Unpriced consequences are not subject to the same heavy assessment, but are up to a great extent to personal judgement. This applies, inter alia, to: consideration of cultivated land, natural diversity and open-air values. Climate considerations are also poorly addressed in the models. Does the Council of State see that there are weaknesses in these models in terms of land degradation, and will he take any initiative to evaluate them and possibly change them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1478	I mean that the representative Nävra addresses an important question. I am concerned that we are trying as best we can to take care of all the important consequences of infrastructure development. We shall best weigh together both the positive and the negative effects of building infrastructure. The positive effects are e.g. reduced travel times and road safety, while on the negative side we often find climate and environmental impacts. Socio-economic analyses are important as a basis for decision-making in all areas of society. In the socio-economic analyses, we try to consider any impact that might be significant, regardless of whether or not a price can be set for them. The transport sector is one of the sectors where such analyses are most widely used, and where they work most with the development of both transport models and professional methods of pricing and not pricing. The main non-priced effects included in the analysis are environmental impacts, covering landscape, outdoor life, natural disasters, cultural heritage and natural resources. We are now working on a new national transport plan for 2022-2033. In this work, I am concerned that we take as much attention as possible to all the important effects of prioritisation between different projects. The Ministry has therefore asked the ETAs to calculate a NTP 2022-2033 natural disaster indicator. Furthermore, in a letter dated 23 October this year, the Ministry of Transport has asked our companies to be able to see any greenhouse gas emissions resulting from land use changes in the most recent priority projects. We have, of course, enough of our models that we use, but we're working on continuously improving them, and we're busy looking at the health. There is, of course, an agricultural and food minister here, who naturally follows the effects, for example agricultural land, which is also part of that health. I think that in the matters that the government has dealt with, we might just have to see the health that is at stake. But we're working on it continuously, and as late as just a few weeks ago, we asked for a clarification just to link to greenhouse gas emissions and a clarification against NTP, which becomes an important work for the government on this particular sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1493	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State sees the issue as important, because we see time after time that the factors that can be converted into money are the ones that win the case on a case-by-case basis on road development. In particular, we see that the high speed limit is a factor that draws up the accounts. It again means four-field roads, 110 km/h, which in turn means large areas built-in and larger emissions, particulate matter, microplastics from the tyres, etc. The climate is losing on a case-by-case basis. Nature and cultivated land lose on the case by case. Last we saw this in connection with the planned construction of a four-field highway across the Lowend delta, which the Council of State is well aware of. And we know of the excavation and construction of ants in connection with the E39. So I'm actually asking the Councils again: the two UN Panels, the Natural Panel and the Climate Panel, have warned us very strongly. Does he see that there are warnings that we must take seriously? And can you imagine that a sample is put down to evaluate the models?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1504	In that I have sent to our offices, I write: ‘Land-use changes such as the reduction of ants, forests and agricultural land also have an impact on greenhouse gas emissions. We ask transport activities in dialogue with the Environment Directorate to describe the possibility of calculating the climate impact of such land use changes and, if possible, to make any greenhouse gas emissions visible as a result of land use changes in the most recent priority projects.’ So there's a clear indication that this has to be considered. And then it's also clear that, for example, by the lead we've had linked to E39, at least in the recordings I've given to the government, we're just going to take this into account, both by not building up important agricultural land and seeing the meaning that we're not going to take pristine nature. So it's going to be based, and we're going to be conscious of this. And I'm just thinking the work towards the etats is it's all, the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1516	I thank you again for the answer. I see that when it comes to climate, the Council of State wants to take some action, and I am very pleased about that. I think the observations that have been made lately, around the E39, and the NRK's detection of emissions from ants has been quite decisive in that field. But I want to point out another point, which is a slightly different approach to this, in terms of socio-economic analysis. There is an investigation carried out by Nordic research a few years ago, on behalf of NTNU, comparing eight state investment projects with the various studies on socio-economic benefits. It's a very important report, and it's serious. For it in fact concluded that there was a tendency to ‘call in the forest you get answers’ – that is, that there was an answer that you could expect in a way that the sponsor hoped for. It's scary, it's serious, and I'm asking the Council of State to look very carefully at it. So I'm really asking again whether he can go into that report and see if there's any recourse to taking into account assessments of socio-economic benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1527	I agree with Mr Nävra that it is extremely important that we see the soundness of this. And since the representative Nävra challenges me especially on the E39: The track isn't finally made there. That means it's possible to see exactly that perspective. And that's the way that when we come to it – and the E39 from Kristiansand to Trondheim is not adopted in this house, it's a vision – it's important that we see just that healing. When I made my contributions to that stretch, E39, connected to Rogaland and Agder, it was important for me to see two dimensions. One was the reduction of agricultural land. And this is one of the best areas we have in that way. But some municipalities may often, naturally, want to use pristine nature because it creates less conflict with the local population. Then it's important that we see that wholeness, and we have done so far. But that we have to keep working on this, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1535	This question, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is raised by the representative of Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1540	‘How will the State Council operate to ensure that a future timber is extracted from the Norwegian forest and that this contributes to the value creation in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1545	I would like to thank Mr Greni for his question. I am sure that we can agree that the forest can make a significant contribution to the creation of value added and employment in our country. We have large forest resources in our country. The peak is much lower than the growth in the forest. That means we have enough resources to cut more. That's why I'm concerned that facilitating a high extraction of timber is both good for our forest and a proper way of thinking about value creation. In 2019, we had the largest timber extraction in our country since 1920. The government is working to facilitate efficient extraction of timber from Norwegian forests. We have doubled the contribution to forest roads, we have helped to realize a number of timber brands, and we have made considerable efforts to remove bottlenecks on county roads. This is in addition to a historic road and rail investment, to which the Minister of Transport has referred. Making transport from three stumps to industry more efficient is extremely important for the government. It also requires predictability, so that one can get it all the way to industry, and that the industry also has the energy to process this timber. But neither I nor the representative get away from the fact that it's the demand in the market that determines how much we can eat, and lately we've unfortunately seen that we've had a reduced demand. It's also about the situation we're in right now, the coronary situation. As a follow-up to the bioeconomy strategy, the government has strengthened and also done something about the instrumentation in Innovation Norway. We have told Investinor that they have expanded their mandate to invest precisely in the forest sector. And I've launched my own strategy for R & D and innovation in industry, just to create jobs and increase demand for wood-based products. And I've set up a dialogue forum for the forest industry itself, just to be able to make it work together, so that we can take out the potential of the instrument, so that we actually get an industry based on the market in Norway, which can create products that are demanded. It's actually that having an active and sustainable forestry is important to our country, it's important for innovative industries, but it's also very important for the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1566	As the Council of State was in the answer, we have an increase in Norway that is far below what is being taken out, so it is about to increase peak activity. Forestry has received a package of measures, a corona package, and according to the industry, it has produced good results. It has maintained its activity, and it has, for example, have been used for grants for withdrawals in areas that are otherwise relatively inaccessible. Will the Council of State ensure that the unused funds contained in the package of measures can be used after the deadline of 1 December and will the Council of State ensure that the scheme is continued next year? Because this has been a success.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1571	I want to look at the tool and look at what's useful for that industry, and that's why it's so important for me to have that dialogue so close. It was also the dialogue that allowed you to go in with $50 million. NOK, because the industry said that this we get a lot left for, and it turned out that we got a lot left for them. At the same time, we also have to take out the mass that industry needs. There was a connection between what those who run the stallion said, and what the industry also asked for, whether products they needed, and that this was related. They did so, for example. During my visit to Borregaard, I said this was very important to them in the industry they have. I want to look at this in the future as well, that we are able to have an instrument that works all the way. So the representative asked me if I can promise anything about exactly what's on the table right now. I'm going to see what's left, and then we're going to work to make sure that we have an efficient forest industry in our country all the way, because it's important for the government, but it's most important for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1580	In terms of use and protection, the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Climate Change often stand on his side – despite the fact that active forestry is an important climate action. We see that the government very often goes for protection, many times only for protection. Among other things, a target of 10 pst has been set. the protection of the forest, but it's a little bit unclear to me what this is going to be 10 pst. off. Will the Minister for Agriculture take the initiative back into forestry policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1585	I thank you for that question too. I would like to say as far as the use of forests is concerned: when we took out more forest in 2019 than we have ever done since 1920, I would not say that Councillor Bollestad is on the lat side in terms of taking initiatives in the field of forests. I'm concerned that there are some areas we're going to protect, but I think that in a lot of our areas through good management we can also manage to conserve some forest to ensure that we bind enough carbon, and that we can extract wood that is used both in industry and in our construction, which means that we get an environmental benefit at the same time. As the Council of State, I want to focus on this, and I am absolutely convinced that I will also have this cooperation with the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1595	This question, from the representative of Rigmor Aasrud to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be raised by the representative of the Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1600	‘Vacancy is high throughout the country, but some municipalities are exceptionally hard hit. This applies for example to Ullensaker municipality, where over 8 pst. by the labour force is registered as unemployed. What does the government do to help municipalities like Ullensaker, who experience exceptional high levels of unemployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1607	I thank the representative for the question. The corona pandemic has shaken our country. The government and the Storting have set up tools and efforts we haven't seen in modern history to secure income, businesses and jobs. The State budget has also been actively used. The structural budget deficit has increased by over 150 billion. kr compared to the 2020 budget. The control rate is set to zero. This stimulates demand for labour, including in the municipality of Ullensaker. Labour market policy is a policy for the whole country. It is not structured according to municipal boundaries. The aim is to benefit the labour force. Unemployment is the waste of resources. Getting the most out of work requires transitions and mobility. It has to be arranged to allow people to move their jobs and to be re-trained to new jobs. The geographical distribution of labour market measures in Nav takes into account differences in unemployment between regions. Similarly, it is for the allocation of administrative resources. Social security has a high level of recorded unemployment. At the end of October, the unemployment rate was 7.7 p.m., more than twice the national average of 3.5 p.m. The figures are also included on the permitted basis. However, although Ullensaker was one of the municipalities with the greatest increase in unemployment after the closure in March, the decline after the first acute phase to date has also been a break. There is room for action for local initiatives in Nav. Nav has set up his own job center at Oslo Airport, as the only one in the country. The job centre was established after several of the major companies at Gardermoen had taken this up with the Nav office at Jessheim. In several counties, Nav has chosen to organise efforts towards the unemployed and businesses in its own teams. New technologies are being actively used to reach many users. Examples are webinars with subsequent individual follow-up. Facilitating central and local action is the medicine of this government, including in employment and labour market policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1622	Avinor now reports that air traffic is unlikely to rise to 2019 levels until 2025. Very many jobs are linked to the hotel industry, which can no longer be the organizer of conferences. This is probably a long-term leave, which requires conversion. The municipality of Ullensaker has tried to apply for conversion funds through the Viken to do what the Council of State has to do. My question is: will the State Council use its right of governance to oblige Nav to implement exceptional measures in this part of Norway? We see that other parts of the country that are severely affected are being given exceptional measures. This time, Ullensaker, which is a rather centrally located municipality, is very, very hard hit. Will the Council of State do anything in addition to the general nature and require Nav to implement exceptional measures in this region?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1629	To answer the question first: I feel that Nav is doing extraordinary actions, just by e.g. establishing a job centre as the only one in the country, recognising that Ullensaker municipality is the municipality that has the main aerodrome in Norway – at a time when we are hit by a pandemic that causes air travel to go down dramatically, and many of the businesses associated with an aerodrome notice it. Then Huitfeldt's representative is also referring to something very important, that it might seem that this can be long-term. This is not just about emergency measures, as both the government and the magnificence have been working together, but it is also about investing in, for example: competence policy, ensuring that we get professional programmes that we create together with the parties, and that we measure for this, for example. in the service industry. For the time being, I do not see the need to instruct Nav further to do anything more than what they have already done. I think what they themselves have taken the initiative to do in cooperation with the companies in Ullensaker, is commendable. So far I don't see the need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1638	What should be done to ensure that the Minister of Industry – no, the Minister of Labour – will take exceptional action both from the Ministry of Industry and from the Ministry of Labour in this municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1643	I understand that you can go a bit surr when it comes to government posts sometimes. So I've had two, but I'm not a Minister of Industry yet. I think we should, of course, follow the situation carefully, not just in Ullensaker, but in our country in general. It may well be that new measures will be needed in the coming period, so we will follow closely. But right now I believe that Ullensaker is an example of a municipality that is affected by an external situation, which incidentally has a business structure that is particularly hard hit by a pandemic that affects travel life, and that has therefore received extra follow-up from Nav. As I said, we're going to follow the situation closely. But again, I want to refer to the general instruments we have, such as: is about raising skills and combining daily pay and leave to work with education, which is an exception which lasts until 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1653	‘The industrial locomotive Norske Skog Saugbruks AS in Halden has decided to permanently stop one of three paper machines from 1 January 2021. It's dramatic, and it affects more than 50 employees. The company hasn't quit people since 1974. Hard work is done from management and trade unions for the conversion to the production of new timber-based green products. What will the Council of State provide for by state change payments, e.g. intra-corporate training, so that professionals can be maintained and schooled for future industrial production in Halden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1660	I would like to thank Mr Lundtigen for his question. The government is well aware of the difficult market situation for Norwegian Forest Saugbruks AS in Halden. I refer here to the previous answers that the Minister of Industry has given to Stortinget in connection with questions for written answers about the problems of this particular company. It is demanding when companies risk cutting production, and employees are at risk of losing their jobs. I have a great deal of understanding that the situation is going to be difficult. A general decrease in the demand for paper has been reinforced as a result of the covid l9 pandemic. The representative, Lundteigen, is looking for, inter alia: support for training through the scheme of intra-corporate training. Resources related to intra-corporate training were transferred to county municipalities from 2020 onwards and are therefore no longer part of the State labour market policy. It is up to the county council how they choose to adapt their efforts to regional conditions. The county councils therefore increased the framework grant by 55 million in 2020. kr to strengthen its role in regional development of nutrition and competences. In view of the demanding market situation that arose for many enterprises, the allocation to county municipalities was increased by another 50 million. kr. In the context of the coronary outbreak, funds have been allocated to a number of training measures aimed at increasing the competence of staff, unemployed and outsourced. There are funds to facilitate, inter alia: the work of county authorities on enhancing the competence of firms affected by market failures as a result of the outbreak of the virus. The government may find it difficult to address the underlying market conditions of the paper industry. Enterprises themselves must take the necessary business steps to adapt to changes in the market. The involvement of the authorities is to facilitate migration and to provide a good overall framework for value creation. Particular attention has been paid to facilitating good overall framework conditions for competitive industries. We have recently presented an export action plan to promote Norwegian exports. In addition, the government has presented a number of measures to reduce the effects of the coronary outbreak. In its replies to the Storting, the Minister of Economic Affairs has paid particular attention to the strengthening of the industrial instruments for innovation and green migration. Enova and Innovation Norway are among the main tools of the government to promote green migration and innovation, and through these actors the country offers a number of schemes that may be relevant to the forest industry. The government has increased the transfers to Enova, and the draft State budget for 2021 continues to receive record-breaking appropriations for the eco-innovation scheme under Innovation Norway. The Eco-Technology Scheme is important for industrial conversion and grants to pilot and demonstration projects to contribute to the commercialisation of eco-technology-based innovative solutions. I am aware that many exciting projects are going on at Saugbruks. Enova has supported several of these, including: a more energy efficient wood pulp plant and a biogas plant. I see that the company is busy finding good solutions and working with the trustees. It's reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1679	I asked you an exact question. The answer is that the instruments are there. The company says it is wrong, the instruments are not there. In-company training has a maximum capacity per enterprise of 2 million. kr over a three-year period. It's a fact that the Viken County must relate to. There is a great need for change and a great need to keep the people on the business and to give them new skills into new production. And then it has such a constraint. What's the problem for the government to take away that 2 million-dollar limit per business? kr in so-called de minimis aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1686	Let me start by saying that I have had quite a number of meetings, both in my role as Minister of Education and as Minister of Labour, with the county rapporteurs and county councils on what measures they think are important and work. One of the measures they actually point to is BIO funds. In addition to this, we have set up a separate system for exposed industrial clusters – this is one example, Kongsberg Industrier is another – that just feels that under the pandemic they want to take care of their skills in a demanding transformation. This is why it can be implemented through the sectoral programme system, which enables training to be provided in this way. It's important to say that the BIO funds, which are managed by the county councils, are one of many tools we have. The underlying problem, also in this situation, is that the need for paper is falling. That's something we have to deal with in the long term, for example. by training and retraining, in addition to what I mentioned about contributions to industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1695	The professionals at Saubruks realized this many years ago, that one had to change the operation. They have a wonderful relationship with their leadership and have put forward a plan. They want to use the wood pulp for composite production, for example, instead of for paper. They're doing what's possible in the market. Then they have to bring their professionals. The tools for professionals are in-house training. A regulation, laid down by the government, says that one can receive no more than de minimis support. The trifle means trifle, it means little. Here's one facing something big. It should soon be up to the Council of State, that there is something big that is needed. My question was, what is the problem of taking away the 2 million limit? kr in aid per holding over a three-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1702	Once again, the BIO funds have been transferred to the states, and neither do I have the constitutional responsibility for the BIO funds. It has the Minister of Industry, who has answered questions to the Stortinget about it. That being said, it is quite right that this system should definitely be able to be considered along the way, whether it works optimally, but the feedback is – that is why I mentioned the meetings with the states – that it does. They simply want the pot to be bigger, so that more companies can search. So I believe that the examples used here, and the dialogue that is going on in the company, are a follow-up dialogue, just that you're inventing new products, seeing how you can continue to innovate, keep jobs and re-train employees. It's a very good example that a lot also works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1714	‘The Norwegian support apparatus has identified challenges with support for the production and industrial use of hydrogen. In the context of the EU Green Deal, the EU has pointed to the Important Projects of Common European Interest as a possible solution to get projects going. [[IPCEI]] Norway can nominate its hydrogen projects by the end of 2020 if we choose to participate in order to support the establishment of new green industry in Norway. How does the government feel that Norway can participate in the IPCEI Hydrogen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1721	Let me start by thanking you for a good question about an important topic. The interest in hydrogen is high and increasing, both here in Norway and internationally. A combination of ambitious climate objectives and technology development has brought considerable attention to the use of hydrogen as a climate action. This has resulted in several countries and regions developing their own hydrogen strategies. A good example of this is the EU. The EU has set itself the objective of becoming climate-neutral by 2050, and they have identified the production and use of hydrogen as one important measure to achieve this objective. In Norway, hydrogen can help both reduce emissions and create values for Norwegian business. In the government's hydrogen strategy, we point to the importance of getting pilot and demonstration projects to mature the technologies. Through the Norwegian Research Council and Enova, the government has made tools available throughout the hydrogen value chain, from research to market introduction of new technologies and new solutions. These instruments shall contribute to the development of a hydrogen market and a hydrogen industry in Norway. In order to facilitate more emission-free solutions for coastal ferries, the government has decided that the bid for the ferry link Bodø-Moskenes will require the use of hydrogen technology. The government has also decided to create a roadmap for the development of hydrogen. That roadmap shall be based on the hydrogen strategy. At the same time, we propose additional funding for hydrogen-related infrastructure projects and value chains of 100 million. kr in next year's government budget. IPCEI, Important Projects of Common European Interest, is a scheme covered by the EEA Agreement which is in place to stimulate ambitious joint investments and activities in which more Member States are normally involved. Therefore, IPCEI is not a financial instrument at EU level, but a description of projects in which State aid can be increased according to specific EU/ESA guidelines. As far as I am aware, so far there have not been many projects that have obtained prior approval. However, I know that the European Commission has previously approved IPCEl projects on microelectronics in 2018 and batteries in 2019. I am also familiar with the fact that it is now working to establish more IPCEI, among other things. within pure hydrogen. Participation in an IPCEI within pure hydrogen may be interesting for Norway. Therefore, as part of the work on a hydrogen roadmap, the government will investigate the benefits and disadvantages of the IPCEI scheme and participation in such a project in pure hydrogen. We will place special emphasis on the utility and how it can support projects in Norway if it becomes relevant with Norwegian participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1738	Thanks for the answer. In Mo Industripark we find Norway's only industrial company that recycles steel. Celsa uses electricity when they melt scrap iron, but in the rolling mill they use fossil energy sources today. In cooperation with Statkraft and Mo Industriepark, they want to produce hydrogen that they can use again in the rolling mill. Although Celsa’s steel production is the purest in the country, it emits between 90 000 and 100000 tonnes of CO 2 per year, and when hydrogen is used in the rolling mill they can get it down by 60 pst. The production of hydrogen by hydrolysis is 100 years old technology, but putting it into use in the rolling mill is not shelf product, and it is therefore very expensive to put it into industrial use. If they put it into use, they'll be a big customer of green hydrogen, but they can't get support from Enova because it's known technology, nor from Innovation Norway. They would have wanted Norway to use IPCEI to make use of it, but it is urgent, because you have to have a call of interest by the end of the year. The question is, are we?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1750	As I said, as part of the work on hydrogen road maps, we're going to investigate the benefits and disadvantages of participating in the IPCEI system, also within pure hydrogen. Then I would also like to say that I very much agree with the representative Lyngedal says about the project in Mo Industriepark. It's a very good and important initiative. It's amazing to think that we live in a country that because of our pure power has so low emissions from industry, but we have to cut even more, and then hydrogen is of course part of that answer. But whether this project can and should become an IPCEI project, and whether this scheme is suitable for this project, I do not have the basis to respond here and now. In general, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to refer to the good tools we already have to support such projects, for example. through the Norwegian Research Council, Innovation Norway and not least Enova, and also encourage project owners to make use of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1757	Now it's like Celsa reports that they can't get support from Enova because there's not enough innovation in using the hydrogen industrially. Nor can they get anything from Innovation Norway because it is too big a business. So they have found a European instrument they can use, which is the ETS Innovation Fund, and they applied for support before the weekend. For them, it will be quite essential to have access to become an Important Projects of Common European Interest and to find cross-border cooperation across borders in Europe. It is also very important for them to demand the greenness of the steel purchased by the public in Norway. In the EU, procurement processes are now in progress within the European Green Deal, with a view to better paying for low-emission products. I think unfortunately there are no instruments in Norway for Celsa, other than the acquisitions now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1764	I very much agree that green acquisitions are important in order to drive this development we want to see. Then I also agree that one of the challenges we have with hydrogen is simply to develop these value chains, that is to say break the chicken or egg problem situation, because when there's no need, it's hard to support production. One has to see these things in context in order to trigger these investments and that these projects will be profitable. This is the basis for the 100-million-dollar idea of what is now in the draft state budget. kr to hydrogen, which is specifically targeted at infrastructure and thinking about node solutions, for example, which I experience is the representative Lyngedal is looking for. At the same time, this will be an important theme in the road map we're going to create. But we have good support arrangements. We are spending more money, and I am very happy that developments in the EU are also going the way it is, because it will be very important also for Norwegian companies to be able to participate and participate in and deliver to a greener market in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1774	‘NOAH addressed the Environment Directorate on 15 September with proposals for measures to extend the landfill capacity in Lang Island to 2030. The NOAH provides the following premise to extend the landfill capacity: ‘[...] it is a prerequisite for scheduled revalidation that new landfill capacity is available from the specified end-time for the reception capacity on the Long Island’. Has the Council of State any information suggesting that the NOAH will invest in an extension of the landfill capacity in Lang Island without further clarification by the State after 2030?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1781	It is true that in a letter dated 15 September, the NOAH pointed to possible measures that could extend the capacity to handle and dispose of hazardous waste on the island of Lang Island, potentially until 2030. This information was provided in response to a letter from the Environment Directorate of 29 June. This has been important, new information on how to assess the role of the State in ensuring new capacity to manage hazardous waste nationally. The NOAH letter states that there are several conditions that need to be clarified to realize the possibilities that may lie there to extend the landfill capacity on the island of Lang Island. Extending capacity will include, inter alia: require permission from the Environment Directorate to deposit stable, non-reactive hazardous waste over quota 0. This is currently not requested. The NOAH is also clear that assessments and decisions have to be made within the company. Of course I can't answer for that, but that will apply in particular. estimates they relate to the availability of new landfill capacity for the specified reception capacity in the Lang Island. I think that NOAH has presented very interesting new possibilities that need to be clarified if they are to be realised, and in case they are allowed to implement. If a success is achieved, it will give us a significant extension of national landfill capacity, and with it also give us time and space to hopefully get the positive developments that the expert selection for hazardous waste has outlined in terms of technology, innovation, the circular economy, the reduction of landfill needs, etc. All in all, I think that's good news, and it's positive that we've got this development in what the representative of Aasland certainly agrees with me that is a demanding political case.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1796	What I want to stress is that it's highly uncertain what the outcome of the investment decision NOAH is going to take, because there are some assumptions that are not met than that long. I can see nothing other than that the state somehow has to give some leads to the NOAH on landfill capacity after 2030 in order for the investment decision to take place. Therefore, there was no need to shout loudly, as both the Right and Left people did in Grenland on 17 September when they heard about the NOAH's plans to extend capacity until 2030. In fact, there is a significant uncertainty. I believe that the only way to resolve that uncertainty is to go into it with a state plan and point to Brevik. But I hope that the Council of State can already confirm that using government plan as a tool now, into an investment decision for the NOAH to secure landfill capacity after 2030, is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1801	I have to admit that it is a little difficult to understand what the representative of Aasland is asking me to do, because he says that going into the state plan is the only way to achieve long-termity, understanding that then one should do so, and at the same time he asks me to confirm that we should not go into the state plan. So I have to admit that it is a little difficult to understand what the representative is asking about. But what I can say, and that's my point of view, is that we're not going to go into any state plan now, simply because there's no need for it, because one of you sees that it's now hopefully going to be significant national storage capacity for many years to come, given that a lot of provisions are being met. I believe that both the representative Aasland and not least many of those who live in Grenland are happy. That must be a positive news. In the case of landfill capacity after 2030, Norway has an EEA obligation to ensure national landfill capacity for hazardous waste. I think the Labour Party agrees that we're going to have, and of course we want to make sure that, to the extent necessary, after 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1808	I cannot interpret the answer now in any other way than that the Council of State will not use State plan against the investment decision in the NOAH. I think that is a good clarification, because it has been highly uncertain whether or not the Council of State would use it. But it is that it has taken winter and spring, and still there is a lot of uncertainty about the landfill plans in Brevik, despite the fact that we have a municipality that says no, and we have an expert committee that clearly does not recommend the use of landfill in Brevik. It seems that it is not enough for the government, so the government has now challenged both the expert committee, the Porsgrund municipality and Norcem that they will have new assessments of co-operation between landfill and limestone outlets. Then I ask the question at the end: is there anyone who can mine in Brevik better than those who have operated the mines for many decades, just Norcem? Why not trust the assessments that Norcem has made, which are clearly clear in the fact that co-operation is totally out of date?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1817	Firstly, I have to say that I do not understand that it is certain that the government will go into the state plan in Brevik now. We've clearly said that we won't. To the extent that there is uncertainty about it, it must have been created by the representative Aasland himself or others, because we have said that we see no need to do now, because we see that hopefully it will be capacity for many years to come. To the specific question: I assume that the representative has registered – with pleasure, hopefully – that the government is now entering billions of investments in carbon capture and storage at Norcem’s plant in Brevik. It should be said that the government has a certain belief that this will be operational for many years to come, and that we believe that this industry will be a very important piece in the green shift. It is the largest climate investment ever made in the Norwegian industry, and the government has every belief that it will be effective for many, many years to come, hopefully with extremely low – and by no means at all – greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1824	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1832	‘Annually, around 12,000 strokes occur in Norway. Regardless of age, there are challenges to transitions between different phases of life. What will the Council of State do to ensure better cross-disciplinary follow-up from child to youth, from youth to adult, from specialist health services to community health services, and from working to AAP/unemployed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1839	Brain stroke is one of the most common causes of death and the most common cause of disability. Predominantly older people are affected, but strokes can also occur among children and young adults. Follow-up will therefore be different, depending on the function loss and the life situation. Many of the elements requested by the representative Wilkinson are described in national guidelines for the treatment and rehabilitation of strokes. The development of brain stroke treatment has been positive in recent years, not least due to the strong efforts of the professional community both in the specialist health services and in the municipalities. Thanks to good organisation and good emergency treatment, many patients with strokes can be discharged from the hospital with good function. The Norwegian brain impact register is an important tool for improving patient safety and quality in investigation and treatment. The Health Directorate has launched the talk-smile campaign that has helped more patients and relatives to make rapid contact with health services in case of suspected strokes. The government has introduced brain impact package pathways to contribute to well-organised, holistic and predictable patient trajectories both within the services and across the service levels, including in terms of follow-up and rehabilitation. The aim of the government is to strengthen the multi-disciplinary provision of rehabilitation in municipalities. For patients to benefit from this, all municipalities from this year are required to have psychologists and ergoterape competence. It is important for the patient to make good transitions from children to adult life. Therefore, coordination of services is necessary both from the specialist health service to the municipality and within the municipality. Patients needing different services should be offered a coordinator and individual level. This is pointed out in the Health Directorate’s guidance for habilitation, rehabilitation, individual level and coordinator, which is a good and requested tool in the service. Some patients need close follow-up in municipalities over time. Therefore, the government has launched a three-year pilot project for structured multidisciplinary follow-up teams. The team consists of professionals who are always needed by the individual patient. Local health and care services, specialist health services and other sectors are also important actors. Good interaction between medical treatment and labour-oriented assistance is an important element of rehabilitation work, so that those who are sick or receive redundancy benefits can return to work as soon as possible. The aim must be to enable more people with reduced working capacity and different health problems to participate in the labour market. For those who are entitled to disability benefit, this could also contribute to a faster clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1854	Yes, individual plan is fine. I never got that when I got a blow. The municipalities are important, but we know that many people don't get the help they need. A little girl suffered a stroke when she was seven years old. Until she was 18 years old, there was follow-up and rehabilitation. Everything stopped from 18th birthday – it happened that she received further treatment in the municipality. She subsequently studied 67 p.m., but then she got no mentor, since the arrangement from Nav is only for those who study under 50 p.m. She wants to work and be a part of society, but now she's 26 years old, has a disability, has a student loan and has no income. What will the minister do so that everyone like her can get a better life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1863	I fully agree with the representative Wilkinson, who here describes the offer to a patient and a user who has been offered for several years, and where this offer has not been good enough. There is also the background to the initiatives I presented in my first response, which are designed to help improve both the coordination of services and the content of services for this group. So the representative ended up raising a number of questions related to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but which are also about what I feel is what the government has invited to do, which is just going to help people with disabilities get an opportunity in their working life and get their skills used.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1870	First of all, guidelines are very nice, but there are no resources on the table in the municipalities, and we know that many of them don't have resources to build up rehabilitation. A boy also suffered a stroke when he was seven years old, with a great risk of bleeding. The follow-up after the stroke worked well in the specialist health service, but not so well in the home municipality. Mother is a single parent and has to make a choice to supervise the son, or to return to work, as the care allowance will be stopped after a short time. Another example is a 44-year-old woman who fell out of the hospital system at the time of the discharge – she was not given any help in the municipality. She's not ready today, at the age of 48. What will the Minister do for these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1879	Now I would like to claim that in my answer it was more than a guide and a circular, so it is probably not a completely correct representation of the answer. It was also e.g. a clear piloting of different ways of working together across the board. Here it is done very very important, good and exciting work. I can also use e.g. bring forward the work done in my own home area, in the Stavanger region, where one has set up a municipal cross-municipal rehabilitation team, which is doing a fantastic job specifically for this group. There's a lot of exciting happening here, and it's important that other municipalities too learn from. I also disagree with the presentation that there are no resources in the municipalities – there are more resources in the municipalities now than there have ever been. The representative may shake his head off as much as he likes, but it is correct in terms of both annual work and competence, precisely because this government has invested in the competence of this part of the service in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1888	Then we go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1896	‘The Lukas Foundation was commissioned in 2019 to establish, test and evaluate a stand-alone hospice at Betania Malvik. The state budget for 2019 amounted to 30 million. kr earmarked for the project. In 2020, the entry was made searchable and Lukas Hospice was awarded a grant of well 19 million. kr. One of the prerequisites for the creation of Lukas Hospice in 2019 was that this would be a five-year project. The assumptions have now changed significantly. Employees are on leave. Why has the government not ensured predictability of Lukas Hospice during the project period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1903	Relieving treatment and care is an important area of government. We have therefore strengthened the field over several years. The State budget provides funds for actions to contribute to the increased competence, quality and availability of health and care services for people who are seriously ill and dying. The government wants to facilitate the diversity of services provided to people in need of relief and care, and to facilitate children in particular. Therefore, the Government of the State budget for 2020 proposed that the earmarked grant scheme for relieving entities be a searchable scheme from 2020. The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee of the Storting supported the government’s proposal to amend the scheme for the grant in the cancellation of the State budget. From 2020, voluntary and non-profit actors have been able to seek funding from the scheme. I must therefore reject the representative Toppe's presentation of the prerequisites in this case. There is no agreement that the Lukas Foundation should be a five-year project. This is clearly stated in the State budget, Prop. 1 S for 2019-2020 and Innst. 11 S for 2019-2020, and also in the dialogue between the Ministry of Health, Health and Health, the Directorate of Health and the Lukas Foundation. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health and Health and the Health Directorate have on several occasions stressed to the Lukas Foundation that the State budget is adopted by the Stortinget for one year at a time. It also applies to funds for the grant scheme for lessening units. Already in the autumn of 2019, through the draft government budget for 2020, the Foundation became aware that the grant would not be earmarked in 2020. The foundation was granted 21.3 million. SEK of 30 million frame. kr over the searchable grant scheme in 2020. In order to ensure predictability, the Government of the State budget for 2021 has clarified that actors that have established offers based on the grant shall be further prioritised in the application process, provided that all conditions for the funds are otherwise met. I understand that the Lukas Foundation is experiencing this situation as a demanding one. At the same time, I believe that the launch and operation of projects must be adapted to the financial framework proposed. There is a need to strengthen the supply of people in need of relief and care. I am glad that the Lukas Foundation is contributing to this, and I hope they too will continue with this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1918	It is a little difficult to understand that the government is investing in alleviating treatment and in the lack of it at the same time as a project that they themselves have allowed 30 million. until 2019, now it is necessary to close the doors and send patients home because state funding fails. I hear what the council says, that there has never been an agreement with the Lukas Foundation on hospice. But it's also how they got the funds in 2019 based on a project request. It's very hard to understand that one from the government's side, the majority of the population, is giving resources to a project application, but one does not make sure that the project can be carried on for more than one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1925	The representative Toppe is well aware of how the scheme related to applications for grants is conducted. The representative is also well-known that no one is guaranteed what comes in the next budgets. Here, too, the Foundation has been very clearly informed that this will be a searchable system. That means they also had to assume that this became other applicants. In addition, the Stortinget also included in the 2020 budget the priority of grants to children in this area. The Lukas Foundation does not offer anything to children, so it was obvious that others would also receive a grant. It is the Lukas Foundation itself that has to take responsibility and take into account when making its budgets. It is not that they are without public support. They got 21.3 million. SEK of a frame of 30 million. in 2020. A lot of other organisations would think of it as a pretty strong government funding of a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1930	The Luke Foundation itself says that if they had known that they had only received funding for one year, they would of course never have seen this project go ahead. There is a competence workplace that will cost to create as an offer from the start. The first year was not, in fact, a searchable arrangement; they received support from today's government party in the budget negotiations. Then I didn't think it was good in any way to go back to what they thought was safe funding. It's the government and the government that have made this a searchable system, and that has also prioritised $30 million. kr to a children's hospice in Kristiansand, who takes very much of this post, while the offer in Malvik now has shut down their doors. The government doesn't think it's worth $50 million. is bad politics from the government's side?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1937	That representation by the representative Toppe is wrong. I cannot take responsibility for what the Lukas Foundation perceives, but I can take responsibility for what is communicated to the Lukas Foundation. In that communication, there has been no doubt that these are annual funds that need to be applied for, as is the case with everyone else. I think quite a few of the other organizations in the big field we're giving grants to, would have felt quite unreasonable if one foundation were to get a guarantee for a fixed amount over five years, while all the others had to apply. It is quite common when the Storting initiates new appropriations for individual foundations, that they are earmarked for that year, while the following year becomes a searchable scheme. In fact, we have to deal with the regulation that Stortinget has adopted in terms of financial management in the state. It would be very strange if we were to break this legislation in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1944	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-11-04.ana.ud411e1958	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
