ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e33	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e38	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Petter Eide, Arne Nävra and myself, I propose the removal of input-driven funding in the specialist health service during the coronary apathy. I considered urgent procedure, but I choose to promote the proposal and ask for urgent committee procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e45	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e50	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for an extension of the business compensation scheme. Given the seriousness of the matter for the company of the country, I ask that the matter be dealt with within the committee as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e57	The representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e62	On behalf of the big business representatives Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to remove the excess cash support for companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e67	The representative, Tuva Moflag, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e73	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Kjerkol, Tellef Inge Mørland, Tore Hagebakken, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Nina Sandberg, Øystein Langholm Hansen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on digitisation to prevent exclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e78	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e94	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e101	Equality is more than equality between men and women, equality is about the biases, the disabled and the minorities. Norway has the best assumptions to have an ambition to be the world's best at gender equality. We have good action plans and strategies with actions in the fields with which we work. In its presentation, the Council of State signals further action. The Annual Gender Gap Report, the Global Gender Gap Survey, measures 153 countries based on 14 indicators. It is in health, education and economic and political participation. Norway is number two, behind Iceland, as we were last year. We have to have the ambition to be number one. But equality is more than statistics and list locations. Being able to make independent choices in terms of education, working life and partner is a prerequisite for equality. Equality is about having the opportunities, and not least to have the freedom, to choose. Equality is that individuals make choices that are right for themselves, not for society or others — whether they are parents or government officials. You have to make your own choices. Equality is being free from social control, which is negative. Norway is at the peak of female employment. Until the coronary epidemic was 75 pst. by women and 81 pst by men employed. Immigrant women in Norway have traditionally had low levels of professional participation. Lack of education and Norwegian skills are some of the reasons, as are cultural and religious barriers — but also the fact that it has been difficult for reasons of discrimination to become employed. It is gratifying that Norwegian-born women with a migrant background have higher professional participation than their mothers. That means integration helps and works. One of the challenges in Norway is the gender-based labour market. As a result, we receive both gender-based education and gender-based participation. Girls choose traditional health education, boys choose economics, crafts or engineering. As a result, fewer women than men start their own businesses. In fact, only one in three women are entrepreneurs. Few countries in the world have fewer women entrepreneurs than Norway — and they are not least head of their own business. It's too bad. But some points of light are. Despite only 38,2 pst. by all enterprises in 2015 were established by women, is actually 62 pst. by those women who establish enterprises in the field of health and social services. The system of free choice, which is open to home and home care, has led more women to start up businesses. It is a pity that the red-greens in the governments of municipalities liquidate this. That's a good opportunity for women. The Korona crisis will have different impacts on society. My concern is that it will affect equality in several areas. Infective measures affect women in small businesses in service professions — hairdressers and skin care. Not least there is a risk of bankruptcy, at least there are permits now. The question is, will women dry to bet on their own businesses after this crisis? And not least, is it true that there are women in part-time jobs who do not come back to work, or women with migrant backgrounds who end up in the back of jobs? Are men walking in front when the wheels get started? My concern is also that, as a result of the coronary crisis, women are increasingly exposed to violence in close relationships. Experience locked up in quarantine, or getting a permit and losing a job because the company is going bankrupt, often gives frustration, but also anger and perhaps drug problems. It can run away from a partner and result in violence. Women are much more exposed to violence in close relationships than men, not least rape. It is worrying that the police report a decrease in the number of cases of violence in close relations. I have a suspicion that it's great darkness and that it's underreporting. I therefore want an evaluation and monitoring of the impact of the corona epidemic and its impact on the gender field. I am thus promoting the proposal to which the Right is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e124	Then the representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen addressed the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e129	We already see many of the gender consequences that the coronary crisis brings with it. It's like the Korona crisis puts a kind of magnifying glass on the differences in our society, a magnifying glass on people in vulnerable situations and a magnifying glass on the consequences of having a long way to go before we're equalized. The results of increased unemployment and closed communities hit women hardest. In addition, it's the ladies who are now dragging us through this, it's the ones who are standing on the front line of the health care system, who are cleaning up, who are going to work and are putting themselves at risk, so that we others are safe. The differences we have tried to balance for a long time are now being reinforced during this crisis. It's serious, and those who already bear the burden that we don't have equality are now hit extra hard. We already know so much about the women who work part-time, who are temporarily employed, who are vulnerable to downtime in the labour market initially, those who are not economically independent – they are now hit hard. And so do those who work in the industries that have been closed for a long time, which are still closed, and who may not get back on their feet. Carrying the heaviest should also do the ladies who have work right now. It is the women's dominated professions that are in the front line of the fight against the Korona – the nurses, the health workers, the cleaners and the shopkeepers who go to work to save lives, keep a minimum of society going, are at risk, so that we others experience security. They deserve so much more than clapping from balconies. I hope that we can all now get our eyes up because these deserve action, they deserve equal pay, a wage to live off, full and permanent jobs and retirement from the first penny. It is also the ladies who experience the most serious consequences of things being closed, and that people have been sent home, for many ladies and their children are now confined where it is most dangerous to be to them: at home, with a violent partner. Too little has been done to ensure that these have a place to go through the crisis, and we know that the auxiliaries and crisis centres are already economically struggling. In its presentation, the Council of State took up many of the areas where we know that we lack equality in Norwegian society. Unfortunately, there were not many suggestions for solutions to be heard, and it is not, in fact, that all arrows point in the right direction in Norway. In the peer-to-peer index, we go back to a number of parameters. After almost seven years of right-wing rule, it is unfortunately a reality. The equality is in many ways put in reverses. I can only mention keywords such as abortion, equality law, cut-off on part-time measures, weakening the financial support schemes of the NGOs, cutting aid for gender equality, etc., etc. We have to move on. If you're busy with the ladies who work hard, yes, give them equal pay, give them a pension from the first crown and the whole, permanent jobs, no more talk. If you are busy getting women with a minority background into work and activity, yes, don't give up your cash support, spend your money on qualifying and facilitating them in the workplace. If you are concerned about and afraid of those who now go home and have it dangerous, yes, rust up the crisis centres financially, ensure action against violence in close relationships, and ensure more child protection positions. Whether negative social control is involved, yes, why did the Workers' Party propose to prevent religious environments from putting undue pressure on vulnerable people, and to make demands on state aid — or simply ban homotherapy. The fact is that this government has weakened many of the most important tools we have to achieve equality, and there have not been any new initiatives to move forward. Then it doesn't go forward either. The Corona crisis puts a magnifying glass on the negative consequences of our lack of equality. Today's gender equality policy debate comes at a time when equality policy is more important than in a very, very long time. We see the consequences so clearly, and I hope that now we all get our eyes up so that the ladies who are now struggling the most, yes, they need more than talking. Now we have to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e146	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough presentation of the government's equality policy. He explained well and much to the challenges we are facing today in the field of equality. In general, it is really quite difficult to disagree with most of what the minister said. However, there are some differences between the parties in how we focus on what should be followed up, what are the greatest challenges, and not least how we want to meet them. In his presentation, the Council of State was good at describing the situation, but I have to agree with the Labour Party that he was perhaps a little weaker when it came to the concreteisation of the measures. It is nice to refer to action plans and packages, but it is also important to refer to what they contain in concrete terms. I think we had a good example in connection with March 8 a while back – it's probably two years ago – where we put forward our own commitment to women's health, which was an excellent, good and concrete proposal on how to follow this up. I am also very pleased that the Council of State mentioned the importance of the fight against violence in close relations, which has also been discussed here from the pulpit today. It's a very great threat to women's health, but of course also to family life. Nor should we forget that men too are actually exposed to violence in close relationships. It gives an extra weight when the Council of State refers to its own personal history and illustrates negative social control and how it can inhibit the lives of individuals, and I must say I am quite certain that this is a minister who takes this very seriously. I have also had the pleasure of hearing an engaged minister at a joint event on Women's Day March 8th, and there is no doubt that this is a minister who is very engaged in the field. I think he should be praised for that. But then it's about making sure that as little as possible is subjected to negative social control, and that as much help as possible to break out of it. Several examples have been seen over the past few years, including the following: an increase in the number of Norwegian children disappearing abroad, among others. to Quran schools. Fortunately, we did something about child marriage. I would say that it was an important thing to change Norway, but it is important that Norway is the player who is pressing for a ban on this also internationally. Child marriage, I dare say, is one of the biggest challenges internationally for equality, precisely because it very often prevents young women from completing education and getting into the workplace. Of course, a ban will also break with old, outdated traditions. We've talked a lot about women, and it's often the ones mentioned in the equality struggle, but I have to say that this year, too, I have to point out in this debate that equality also applies to men. I think that might be missing in today's debate. I think it was a little better on a human day on 19 November last year, and I hope it gets even better this year. We must not forget that equality also applies to men. Man's day and men deserve to step out of the shadows of women's equality struggle. They deserve to be taken seriously, just like all of us expect to be. Of course, we should not accept discrimination against women in society, but we should not tolerate discrimination against men. It is important for me to stress today that we should not forget that equality of course applies to both sexes. Last, but not least, I have to deal with this with racism and antisemitism, a growing trend in society, internationally and nationally. It is very demanding when ‘Jews’ are one of the most common shelling words in Norwegian schoolyards. We can't have it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e161	I thank you for the statement on Tuesday. As so often before in the Norwegian gender equality context, I am turned off, and I am glad that there is active work in the whole country on this problem, while I am aware of a renunciation because there is still so much to work for here at home and not least internationally, how equality and the women's case have been set back. The Minister was active in several areas — gender equality, gender differences in study and career choices, involuntary part-time work, parental leave, participation of migrant women in work, living conditions of disabled persons, age discrimination, rights of LHBTQI persons and opportunities, etc. And even though the minister assured us that the government is actively working to promote equality, I have to say that I lacked more concrete information about the fruits of the government's actions actually carried. Both the Minister and I believe that the obligation of activity and reporting will be a good tool to raise awareness among Norwegian businesses that active, targeted and planned work is necessary to promote equality and prevent discrimination. Unfortunately, there is a great weakness in that scheme – 98 pst. by enterprises in Norway have between 20 and 50 employees, and all of them are not covered by the scheme. We in the Central Party still believe that there is very good reason to ask questions about this will have the desired effect on our gender equality work, when the obligation to make representation is only triggered when one of the social partners in private enterprises with 50 or fewer employees so requires. Otherwise, the Minister was, of course, concerned with integration and diversity in his presentation. And by referring to his cultural background and personal history, he makes it clear that there is great potential in all the work we can do in the field of equality for more diversity and better integration and in the fight against social control. The minister also said a fine thing during the presentation that I believe deserves to be repeated, namely that there is a link between the freedom of the individual on the one hand and the development of society on the other. Because the individual's freedom also lies in the possibilities of society. That's why it's our responsibility as politicians to organize for the individual to unfold, seize opportunities and create a safe and good life regardless of its orientation, ethnicity, culture, religion, sex, age, etc. Some suck through life without retaliation, while for others the path is more winding. And that's the last one we have to raise up and forward together. This is why gender equality policy is so important, as the policy of ensuring that all disabled people in Norway have a real opportunity to live as fully as the rest of the population, without constantly encountering barriers, among other things. The UN has criticized Norway for not being good enough. I am therefore pleased to record that there will be a separate action plan for equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The fight for equality and against discrimination and hate crime against other groups must also be continued and strengthened, and I look forward to the fact that we will soon be given the Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion, a plan that was initiated by us in the Central Party. A group of ministers mentioned in the statement are immigrant women, as they have lower professional participation than the rest of the population, and it is particularly low among female refugees. This needs to be improved. The reasons for this are complex, but I believe that labour-oriented measures will be incredibly important. This goes slowly, but we see that it works for a good part, so that work must continue. Another topic that concerns me and concerns me is violence in close relationships. There is particular reason in these corona times to be extra worried, as several have been involved, and the police notice a decline in the number of reports of violence in close relations. Crisis centres report significantly less progress. That's because it's harder to reach out and get help for them. UN Secretary-General António Guterres has encouraged all governments to put women's safety first when they respond to the pandemic. We know that the police districts have worked proactively and have strengthened cooperation with the municipalities. This must be given priority, both now and in the future. Many have found that women are hit hard in the coronary crisis. The party of progress was concerned that we should not forget the role of men. I have received enquiries from some men about much more cohabitation during this period. So it's important for us politicians to remind us that the need for equality can arise and exist in very many areas. We must be alert to that in the future. There's a lot to do. The government has a lot they have to do even better, but I want everyone to be happy in the work on equality, because I know everyone is concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e184	Feminism and equality are freedom – the freedom to be yourself, take the education you want, follow the job dream you want, love whoever you want, regardless of gender, orientation, functionality and ethnic background. It's freedom from oppression, from harassment and from negative social control, and it's the fight for equal opportunities and equal power to half the population, women. It is obvious that we still have a long way to go and fights that remain. Women still earn an average of only 87 kroner per hundred kroner a man earns. Women work more part-time. One in ten women is subjected to rape during their lives. At the same time, both women and men are affected by negative social control in many environments. Discrimination against discrimination, hate crime and homotherapy in some religious communities. Persons with disabilities do not have the same democratic rights or the ability to contribute to the working life of the population. The best feminist policy for equality is the one that sees all of this in context and takes into account the structures behind it: the legal right to full-time employment, the stronger equal pay law, as Iceland has done, bring the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act, so that disabled persons are given equal rights to all others, get resources and prioritisation of the work against violence and abuse in the police, put in place a modern sexuality education with a focus on marginalisation and also acknowledges that not all are hetero, prohibit conversion therapy, so that faith communities cannot harm young people, insecure mischievous people who will only be accepted as they are of their family, by their community and by God. A lot can be mentioned. SV fights for all of this. Gender equality does not lack good ideas or proposals for action. What it lacks is political will and priority. It lacks patience. It doesn't keep us getting equal pay until 50–100 years, which is actually progressing at the pace of the day. We should have had it yesterday! In this year's gender equality debate, we are also not excluded from the consequences of the coronary apathy, for this crisis can also be a crisis of equality if we do nothing now. Women’s dominated professions in e.g. service has been most affected by unemployment. Police and crisis centres fear that the closure leads to much more domestic violence when more people spend more time at home with violent people. Countries such as Poland are actively using the crisis to deny abortion to women. Therefore, the SV promotes a series of loose proposals on gender equality measures in response to the crisis today: giving the police both instructions and resources they need to give priority to the work against violence in close relations, putting police, crisis centres and health together in crisis mode to work against domestic violence, own crisis measures for the women’s dominated professions particularly affected by the economic consequences. Not least, we have already learned some lessons from this crisis. In this work, it is important that the gender implications of this situation, of the measures taken to protect the disease, are also part of the lessons we are going to learn. We know that it is precisely the women's dominated professions in health and care that we now all extend our deep gratitude to, but the heroes of health and care services deserve not only applause from the balcony. They deserve decent pay and proper work, and it is urgent, because in large parts of the health care system, the burden is now high. The time has never been more right than now to put in full-time jobs, to constantly increase staffing, to engage in dialogue on pay raise with the parties for these professions, and it suggests SV today. Equality cannot be interrupted either by corona pandemics or by a lack of political will. Now we have to go with the women's movement and other equality champions, bring up the impatience again, because no one is free until everyone is free. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e205	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e210	I would first like to thank the Council of State Abid Q. Raja for the statement on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors. It is in the nature of the matter that this is a continuous work that must never rest, for new situations require new measures. Norway is in second place in the world for equality, and the world isn't just out there, but it's here with us. There are groups in Norway where equality is not as strong as in the majority population. I am very happy in May 1st, not only because I was born on the workers' day, but because that day reminds me of where I came from, and what I have achieved. That day I know the work that women and men have done before me to have more opportunities than my mother, and that I can live a safe and free life today. The road here has been paved with resistance and barriers, challenges, debates, discussions, action plans, strategies and political work. The gender perspective shaped my youth. As the daughter of a toolmaker, I was told by both my father and society that I should not be technologically interested. In spite of this, I later became a craftsman, in transferred meaning. In my work as a urologist, I now use very expensive and high-tech equipment. That is why I am pleased that there is a commitment to a more equal working life, so that more men are given opportunities in health and care professions and more women are tempted into technological professions. I am also pleased that there is a commitment to getting more women entrepreneurs and getting more women leaders in both the public and private sectors. In today's room we have a colorful Minister of Culture, and we have an immigrant standing here addressing equality, and then we can rightly say that we've come quite far. It's been 24 years since the Minister of Culture got his Nadia, who was of a different caste. It's 31 years since I married a man of another culture and ethnicity, a Northman. Our children are Norwegian, but the way there was a long way. Through strict social control and with a great individual counter, you finally get to where some of us have come. But unfortunately, we still see some young people fighting yesterday's fights in today's Norwegian society. Challenges such as violence in close relationships combined with social control take the freedom of individuals and destroy many years of their lives. It is time to give unreserved support to those who want more freedom, not by condemning our families apart and together, but by supporting our right to live free lives – to show skin, to choose untraditionally, to be Norwegian without being frozen out. This is a difficult psychological-pedagogical exercise, but it is this young person that society needs to understand, and it needs to be implemented in practice by making it clear that society is expected to adapt, especially in terms of attitudes and values of freedom. Therefore, action plans are important. Therefore, different adopted strategies can mean something for children, young people, women and the future of men. Action plans against violence in close relations, against anti-Semitic attitudes, against discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, against racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion, against negative social control, forced marriage and sexual mutilation, in order to reduce sick leave and strengthen inclusion, for universal design by 2021 – this means something to the Nordics today. Strategy for equality, democracy and human rights, for people with disabilities, for hateful opinions against minorities and for more women leaders – these are instruments that honor us. The freedom of expression Commission also means something to our ability to increase knowledge and understanding of modern society, and freedom of expression is as important to me as it is to a Northman of many generations. Norwegian men take the dishes, they make dinner, and they take care of children. They take out paper school and help kids with homework. It is time for equality to break down borders between cultures, national and international. Our equality story has to be told to inspire more from other continents and cultures. Equal opportunities and rights for all must permeate our society. The left will continue that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e231	We cannot close our eyes to the equality challenges we face and the presentation to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality. We know that women are subjected to violence and abuse. We know that women and men are discriminated against in the workplace, that women earn less than men, and much less have leadership positions. We know that girls and boys are treated differently and get different possibilities based on what sex they have. We also know that women experience tremendous pressure to get back to work quickly after birth, a pressure that comes from all sides, including political parties. It's not equality. For my part, equality is mostly about the view of man, the human world. Human dignity is important to us in the Christian People's Party. Equality and inclusion must start before birth by not sorting out children due to their characteristics, and by giving parents who expect children with special needs the support and help they need to prepare. The forgotten gender equality struggle is perhaps the biggest and most important equality fight in Norway today. It is about those who every day throughout their lives experience a lack of freedom and limited opportunities – not because of lack of dreams or visions, but because of all the societal barriers. I'm talking about disabled people. Every day, disabled people are discriminated against and excluded from society. It's just become so common that we barely see it. I call it everyday discrimination, because stories are about people's everyday lives. It's about Ida, who can't go to his secondary school because of stairs, it's about Jonas, who was told to apply for disability on the day he had completed his journalism education – yes, 100,000 disabled people want to work, but it's about Kristine, who can't go to cinema because the assistance teams don't go to, and it's about Fredrik, who can't travel collectively because the train just isn't built for those like him. Yes, too many disabled people can tell you that they have been put back, have been driven off the bus or have remained on the platform. What do these stories tell about us as a society, and what are the signals that we send out? The Christian People's Party will have a society with space for everyone, where everyone can live free and independent lives as far as possible. We believe that all human beings are unique and infinitely valuable, regardless of their characteristics, regardless of their function. Therefore, there must be room for diversity in gender equality policy. The policies pursued must put man at the centre and ensure social equality for all people, regardless of the starting point. At the same time, we just have to recognise that this is also about attitudes. This is because people with disabilities are first and foremost treated as patients or users, not as citizens with full rights. When children can go throughout primary school without meeting anyone in a wheelchair, it goes without saying that from school, attitudes are established that disabled people are special. Yeah, do our schoolchildren learn enough about what it's like to live with disability? Often we see that people with disabilities are not given enough attention in the gender equality debate. They all too often lose the fight for attention in meeting with other groups. The Christian People's Party believes that better provision is needed for more disabled people to be active. It is therefore important, from an equal opportunities perspective, for public authorities to actively recruit people with disabilities. Real training opportunities must be ensured for all, irrespective of the need for organisation. Gender equality for people with disabilities is also about the freedom of owner-occupied housing, and it requires measures, including: through targeted use of start-up loans, raising the stockpiles of housing aid and other targeted measures. We all have a responsibility to reduce man-made barriers that close people out of active participation, and we politicians can't help letting the equality debate lose. We have to make sure that all groups are heard in an equality debate, including the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e251	Economic crises often go hard on vulnerable groups — people with disabilities, minorities and, in particular, women. It's not a coincidence, but a consequence of bias that was there before the crisis. Those who went to work when society closed down, like health professionals, cleaners and other socially critical professions, are literally vital to all of us. These are often women-dominated and low-paid professions. Now people get their eyes up so that many of those who do the jobs that matter the most, get paid the least. It's nice and pleasant to welcome the job you do, but applause doesn't pay any bills. What is needed is a pay gap for low-paid professions, and a pay gap for women’s dominated professions. Tomorrow is, as everyone knows, 1st May, the battle day of the workers. There have always been workers who have kept our society going. It is time that workers also receive wages as earned. The whole community now sees how dependent we are on those who are overworked and underpaid. We can, and we must, turn that development around. They represent us, and then we also have to stand up for them. I therefore hope that the majority of the population will support the Redts proposal to ask the government to engage in dialogue with the social partners on wage developments in social critical professions, especially women-dominated and low-paid professions, in order to find out what the government can contribute by means of appropriations to ensure a necessary and fair pay gap. Now we also see the value of a strong common welfare society. Those who work in the welfare sector are mostly women. They already serve quite little, and they carry our well-being on gradually quite worn backs and knees. Many of them are disabled long before normal retirement age, and still serve women less than men. These inequalities follow women throughout their lives. We see that by nearly nine out of ten minimum pensioners are women, as well as a lot of involuntary part-time. These women need full and permanent jobs and not least to have a reduced normal working time – up to the six-hour day – to reduce the workload on their bodies. Schools and kindergartens have also opened up again in the last few weeks. Many of those who work here are also women. They now get an extra load without additional crew. Red will therefore increase manning. Adequate clean-up staff would give people more time to be with the children while maintaining the protection of infection. Even before the crisis, violence against women was a major problem. Around 150,000 people, mainly women, experience violence in close relationships in Norway every year. The type of killing that does not go down in Norway is what is called partner killing. If we stop the violence, we can also stop these killings. Then we see and we know that perms and unemployment create financial insecurity, which in turn can lead to increased partner violence. In the statement, the Minister said that we should fight violence in close relations, but no additional appropriations and measures have yet been put in place to respond to the need. Many have to spend more hours than usual with a violent person, and this not only limits themselves to families where there was violence before the pandemic, but also to other families. France, Australia and Sweden have provided extra resources to combat violence in close relationships. The UN asks countries to include the protection of women as part of their action against the coronary apathy. Now we propose that Norway follow these countries and follow what is called for by the United Nations. Women have always had to defend their acquired rights both nationally and internationally. We do not achieve real equality when freedom and security are threatened. It's about freedom to choose even if you want none, one, two or three children and about the security of having a fixed income. Gender equality is also a question of cleaning workers, health professionals, hotel staff, shopkeepers, kindergarten workers and many others who are underpaid and overtime and who deserve better pay and also better working conditions. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e270	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e275	I want to start by thanking you for the posts that have been kept so far. There have been many wise words from wise politicians who have one thing in common: we will all promote equality in all its breadth and its full beauty. Now, when I take the floor, it's with deep concern how the pandemic can turn the equality back far on a global scale. We must not forget to maintain the dimension of equality now that the world around us is different. We do not have experience of the crisis we are facing, but we know from experience that crises affect women and men differently, both in the short and long term. It will take time for us to know exactly what effect the coronary apathy has on equality and diversity. Nationally, we need to think about equality when we implement acute and remedial measures, and we need to be aware of the challenges many face when society shuts down. One thing is economics. It is a reality that women earn less than men, save less and have lower wealth, although the economic gap in Norway is decreasing. In future, when compiling statistics to provide the basis for further action, we must not forget that perspective. With effect from 1 January, all public and the largest private employers shall also monitor remuneration broken down by sex and the use of voluntary part-time work. Another thing that worries me is violence, which several representatives have been involved in. The exposure of girls and women to violence is increasing in crises and isolation in the home. Concerns can lead to increased levels of conflict, violence and aggression. Violence is a major and serious problem, both for individuals affected and for society. The police are now producing weekly reports. In vulnerable families, problems are likely to be exacerbated and, in order to address this situation, police districts are now strengthening cooperation with municipalities on measures to remedy the situation. When a health crisis strikes, the health and care sector is at the forefront. They've done that now, and they've done that with a fantastic effort. A happy news is a number from the Coordinate Recording that shows that many people want to work with just health. Every fourth applicant has a health profession at the top, and this year almost every 10 applicants have nurse training at the top of the wish list. Unfortunately, I see that there is no greater proportion of men who have applied for nurse this year than last year, but we are going to work on this. The aim of the new strategy is to increase the number of men in women-dominated professions. We know that many people with disabilities are not fully involved in equal opportunities in Norway. The government's vision is a society where everyone can participate and be given the opportunity to contribute. Let me mention some challenges: Many in this group are more exposed to violence in close relationships, and there is an excess of exposure to physical abuse, sexual assault and institutional abuse. Two out of three dwellings are not accessible to wheelchair users, and many of the country’s secondary schools are still not universally designed. At the same time, children with disabilities are taken out of ordinary education and ports outside the class community. 30 pst. of persons with disabilities who are outside the labour market. To meet these challenges, we need to work together. There are also some other statistics that are very alarming. In general, the population is 6 pst. who believe that people with disabilities are exposed to offensive statements, bullying, harassment and imitation on the street, while among those with disabilities, there are 36 pst. that report that they are and have been subjected to this. We've seen some examples of this, in terms of people being put back and not on the bus or other public transport. We've also seen examples of people telling other people how to "nap" them, i.e., imitating them, because they have a physical disease with which they were born or have been given during life. Not only have you been born in a crazy counter-ground, or have come into a mess that has made you end up in a crazy counter-ground: in addition, people who have normal functions and are not born into that counter-ground, do the even steeper for those who have disabilities. Our work as politicians and as a society — and for Norway as a nation — should be to make it counter-basis the least possible for those with disabilities, and therefore this harassment, this use of words and bullying must end. Our Directorate, Bufdir, has been commissioned to follow the gender-related consequences of the pandemic and to report regularly to the Department. We need to continue the good equality work together and have a special look at the impact of the pandemic on equality, and the government is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e316	The Council of State was a short time ago, as a magnificent representative, often in opposition to government policy and its impact on equality. The state councils, as policymakers, were commendable against the tightening of the abortion law and rightly felt that the government could only adopt the ban on homotherapy, for example. What does the Council of State really think about his own government's efforts in the field of equality up to today, and does he still agree with himself in the criticism he made when he was still in the Storting, that this government has taken several major steps in the wrong direction regarding equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e321	Norway is the second best country in the world when it comes to gender equality. I would also like to say that we are among the best countries in the world when it comes to people who are sloppy – LHBTIQ people. I want to say that we are also very advanced in the case of people with disabilities – that they have equality, that it is non-discrimination. People who have a different religion and ethnicity also experience living in a country where there is a high degree of inclusion. Then there are partial differences. I think the representative knows that the Left is jumping out of a free-thinking path – freedom for everyone, for the individual, but also in society. Our view on abortion issues, I don't think there's any doubt about it. Of course, the representative, as a member of the government, stands behind the Granavolden Declaration and implements the policy that we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e328	It's not useful to rest on the fact that we're high on statistics when it's the policy that decides, and we're going back in many areas in a concrete and demonstrable way. The Council of State was reasonably concerned with the LHBTI field in its statement and also in its reply now. The LHBTI field is a good example of the fact that when nothing is done, it goes back, because in ILGA’s Rainbow Map&index Norway has dropped five places on the list of countries where it is good to be skew. There are six very concrete policy issues that are lacking implementation and that cause Norway to lag behind, for example. homotherapy and five other areas. Will the Council of State promise that he will resume the Workers' Party's proposal from a year back and will only settle in these six areas, so that Norway becomes the world's best country to live in by far?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e333	The Council of State promises that he will continue to work because everyone has full freedoms in Norway, including skews. Of course – it was just supposed to be missing. I am very pleased that, together with the Minister of Justice, I recently agreed that gender identity and gender expression should be included in the penal code, that ‘homophilic orientation’ should be changed to ‘sexual orientation’. There were recordings I got in meetings when I became a councillor, just with people representing the lopsided environment, and I contacted the Ministry of Justice. I am very happy that we managed to sort this out in a very short time. I'm not going to help paint the situation. Of course, the situation is demanding for many groups, and we're going to deal with that. But I also think the representative is doing some disadvantages for the environment and is painting the situation black. After all, we live in the best country in the world, and there are a lot of things that are fantastic at care. Conversion therapy – yes, it may be harmful. It can deprive people of the freedom to live a full and good life, and I work with that in the department. We have launched an investigation in which, among other things: examines whether conversion therapy is adequately regulated in the applicable legislation and the obligations arising from human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e340	Before Christmas, we could, among other things, read that almost an entire school class from Hammerfest was missing. Since 2014, 20 Norwegian-Somalic children have disappeared from Hammerfest. There is only one example of how many children disappear from Norway. Now it's getting closer in the summer, and we know that unfortunately there's a lot of kids getting sent out of the country or against their will stay where you've traveled. The progress party is very concerned that many of these children are being sent to sexual mutilation, forced marriage or for example. Quran schools. I would like to hear a little more from the minister about how he wants to fight this. We have challenged the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Children, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, etc. Many times, but now I want to hear what the Minister of Culture wants to do for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e347	As Minister for Gender Equality, of course, I should like to thank you for this too. I just want to start by saying that it's very good Silje Hemdal asks this question. I'm born a Muslim, and I've been to Qur'an training as a child. I want to say it so clearly that everyone hears it, and so there's no doubt about it: I want to end this forced choral education to which many children are forced out of Norway – against their will – away from a beautiful country like Norway, which gives everyone the opportunity to grow up under freedom and to become free, good individuals in Norway and get good education and live a life in peace and on their own will. I want to go so far as to say that it is both psychological and physical abuse, and that practice is to be combated by the government. Religious coercion is a udder, and I'd like to play with both Silje Hemdal, the Advance Party and the rest of the Stortinget, so that together we can be the world's best country for everyone in Norway, and that we get rid of the crazy, negative social control and the violence of honour that exist in some environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e354	In its presentation, the Minister concluded that gender equality must take place in all areas of society. Since I believe the minister and his party are absolutely credible in their fight for equality, it got a pretty bad shot at the bow during the treatment of new messages of faith and life, for then the Left voted against the proposal for a minimum of 40 p.m. the representation of women in governing bodies which manage public support. It is discouraging that the gender equality struggle is now losing in an area such as this – faith and outlook on life – which has such an impact on the positions of its members on value issues as equality. I would like to hear the Minister explain to me why this effective gender equality action that we are using in all other areas should not be used when it comes to human-dominated areas such as governance in faith and outlook. Or can he just state that this was a lost equality case for the Left in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e362	There are difficult boundaries in some questions, for example: in the case of full freedom of expression and the fight against racial discrimination. In this particular case that the representative mentions, there are some considerations that stand against each other. One is the right to believe and practice their outlook on life, not least equality and to have full freedom in society. As a representative of and not least born into a Muslim family, I was not born to think about the idea of freedom, but I consider myself secular. I think that politics should not be governed by religious foundations, and certainly all in Norway – from different religious communities and all kinds of environments – must be driving forces to achieve full equality in all sectors. Here we also have a law that says that you have an activity obligation. The obligation of activity rests with each department, and all departments will follow it up in their underlying offices and then in the sector in order to achieve full equality in Norway in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e369	We are all now addressing our deepest gratitude to all the heroes of health and care professionals, who are saving lives and standing in a very tough situation all around the world. But the heroes of health care not only deserve our gratitude and applause – they deserve decent pay and proper work. Nevertheless, it may be precisely the professions that are the greatest example of non-equal pay, because the difference in pay is high between these professions and man-dominated professions with similar long-term education and training. At today's pace, we won't have equal pay before 50 to 100 years. Does the Minister for Gender Equality agree that the time is now really in place to value the work done in these women's dominated professions higher, and does he agree that 50 to 100 years does not last, and that the government must do more to value their work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e382	So it's the government's job to promote equality in the broad sense of society. There's a lot of things going in the right direction, and we have to be happy about that. It was e.g. 20 000 more female leaders in 2019 than in 2013. In the case of State leaders, the proportion of women has increased from 45 to 54. The proportion of part-time workers among women has also decreased. Of course, in the case of equal pay, there is a pay gap between men and women, and I have explained that in the statement and also talked about now. I think women were at 87.6 pst. of the male’s salary in 2019 compared to 87.1 pst. in 2018. These are gradual improvements. Much of this responsibility is also on the part of the social partners, and now all employers of a certain size, not least the public sector, have a duty of activity and reporting. In particular, equal pay is to be ensured, and it must be followed up in practice in all sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e389	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e396	Norway is often described as a world champion in equality, and it is true that we have gained much. We were early out with high female participation in professional life, the right to self-determined abortion was guaranteed in the 1970s, the Grand Women's Administration in 1981 became a world news, and one year of maternity leave made it easier to combine professional careers with children. But gender equality is never in goal. As a government council, I started a work to do something about the human dominance of professors, in my time as Minister of Culture, the gender perspective was brought into film, theater and cultural management, and in my time as Minister of Industry, we received for the first time a majority of female directors in state companies. But despite our proud history, we paradoxically have one of the most sexually divided labour markets in the Western world. It continues in the study choices of today’s youth. In the professional field, a total of 86 pst goes. by students on a line of less than 40 pst. by one of the sexes. In the field of health and growth, 80 pst. by the students girls, while on construction and construction and electrical equipment the proportion of girls is only 5 pst. Even within fields, as with real science, the gender differences are large: 70 pst. By the students in biology are girls, but it's just 20 pst. on information technology. At the same time, we see that the boys have worse academic results than the girls. Many suggest that the schools are unable to motivate and follow up the boys well enough in this area. The result is a lasting imbalance in the labour market and it is this imbalance that also contributes to the wage differences that have been described so far in the debate. According to the Institute for Social Research, only 15 pst are working. by workers in Norway in occupations with a minimum of 40 pst. by each sex. Researchers point to several factors affecting choices: parental education and influence; expectations of an already gendered professional life; and the influence of advisers and teachers. There are several reasons why it is important to change this, first of all: ensuring that all young people feel that they have a real freedom of choice and an equal opportunity to become what they want to be. And on the other hand, The community gets the best when we use the total talents, abilities, and efforts. In many professional areas, good gender balance is important in itself. Tuesday’s speech showed that the Council of State is involved in these issues, but, as in the corona management, no one is helped by the involvement of the Council of State – society is changed by action. That is why we need to move into concrete strategies, action plans and actions. The new Minister for Gender Equality has the opportunity to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e423	Let me also get to start by thanking you for a good account with a broad, inclusive and not least personal standing. The Council of State shows us that the width of the equality games is still pointing in the right direction, and at the same time that the challenges of equality are increasingly fading. The Korona crisis has taught us to stand together in new ways. The spirit of virtue has been expressed through social media and on countless digital meeting platforms, and across political dividing lines, the message has been clear: no one should stand alone in the crisis that is over us. Last year I took part in the Pride parade, which for the first time was arranged on Voss, and in the locomotive of parades, which takes place here in Oslo. It's a strong and catchy experience to see the wide range of important markings. However, the challenge when we talk about equality for skews is not these great party days, but all the weekdays throughout the year. In the Council of State on 3 April, the Government presented Prop. 66 L, amendments to the penal code. The government here proposes to include ‘gender identity or gender expression’ as a basis for discrimination in a number of provisions of the criminal law. The government also proposes to replace the term ‘homofile orientation’ with ‘sexual orientation’ to clarify that apiaries are covered by criminal law protection. For the Right, it is important that criminal protection against discrimination is adapted to reality. Persons who have a gender identity or a gender expression that violates the expectations of the environment are vulnerable groups in terms of discrimination, harassment and violence. In both an equality and a justice perspective, it is also right that transhumance should be given the same criminal protection as for example. Homofile. Criminal protection will also reflect a norm that may have an impact on attitudes and perceptions in society. The changes in the rules on hate crime in criminal law are one of many measures implemented by the government to follow up the action plan against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression. The plan has over 40 measures covering a number of societal areas, such as kindergarten and school, sport, working life, health and care services, defence and international efforts. The aim of these measures is to help lesbians, gays, biphiles, transhumans and inter-sexuals to experience society as safe and inclusive. Finally, I would also like to draw the attention of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, which was set up in February. One of the things they need to look at is threats to freedom of expression, how we can strengthen public vocabulary and identify the new conditions of freedom of expression and contribute to the necessary changes and clarifications. This is also important in the context of gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e444	Equality work is freedom work. Our basic needs revolve around our freedom. There is freedom in e.g. to be able to eat saturated, to sleep safely and to drink clean water. It's freedom to choose the one you love. It's freedom to have friends to go to the movies with. It's freedom to be recognized for who you are. It is freedom to be loved unconditionally and met with respect. And it's freedom to believe in the god you want, or not to believe. In order for people to reach the very top of the need pyramid and be able to realize themselves, freedom is needed all the way. Without equality, freedom of persons is hindered. We get about daily messages about people who are hurt, hoarded and harassed when they express their own opinions. Sometimes it can happen face to face, but often it happens online. We know about boys and girls who are constantly torn out of their lives because of bad messages from others. We know that it causes people to get inside and get sick, and we know that it costs lives. Their freedom to live is taken from them online. KS could tell us in a report that they had made among politicians around the country, that the hot and hot weather on the Internet has become so widespread that more people now say they have stopped speaking. Many people choose not to re-select. They lack the freedom to express their opinion, and then, in fact, the ferocity of democracy is unleashed. We also know something about who is the strongest hit. We know that there are people with different cultural backgrounds, we know it's biased, and we know it's women. So even though the mechanism of the heat is modern through the Internet, the victim of the heat is traditional. It tells me that we haven't gotten far enough in the gender equality work when the victims are recognized by being the same as they've been for a hundred years. The Working Party will therefore go up the paths to the social media, to the comment fields and to the facebook groups. We think it's time to set limits on what we as society can also accept online. We believe it is our duty to protect people's right to be on the Internet, just as we protect that right on the street or in the newspaper columns. Because the Internet is not one thing – it is a place where we also live our lives. That is why we proposed to set up a public body to track these paths and find new means to secure the population online. Unfortunately, this was voted down here in Stortinget. But we hear that the Minister for Equal Opportunities is concerned about the issue. So in the fight for equality and in the fight for freedom, I hope that the government now also dares to take action and make changes that matter so that people can also express themselves online.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e467	It is important that all those who want to live in Norway end up with some basic common values. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that everyone, whether native or immigrant, respects human rights and shares the view of the importance of democracy, solidarity, equality and tolerance. No one shall be subjected to racism or discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, culture or religion. This is how we can maintain human dignity, diversity, individual legal certainty and security for all. The whole Christian People's Party's idea of equality is based on women and men having equal value, regardless of gender, and shall have equal opportunities to participate in and influence social development. Political and economic power is an important means of this struggle. The aim is that both women and men's knowledge, experience and values have an equivalent impact on all levels and places in society. Yes, gender equality is a prerequisite for a functioning democracy in a modern welfare state. Today's debate is about how to achieve a society where everyone is equal and characterised by equivalency for all people. I want to promote an important area. Few things are as directly offensive by human dignity as the purchase and sale of human beings. The concept of trafficking in human beings did not disappear when slavery was abolished. There are actually more slaves in the world today than it was in the 1800s, and earlier. Trafficking in human beings has gone beyond drugs to an extent and is now the second largest illegal industry in the world. As long as we know that people are exposed to gross exploitation, we have a fight to fight to achieve equivalency. You don't believe it until you see it, you say it, but when it comes to human trafficking, you almost have to see it before you think it. Is it possible to buy and sell people in Norway? You shouldn't think so, but it happens, and we have to take over and do something about it. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has been passed to preserve the Sex Purchases Act. In Norway today, there are women and men who live under severe exploitation in what can be called sex slavery. With daily threats to themselves and the family, they are exploited by backers and women who make money on this. I would like to thank you for a good statement on gender equality policy and for an important debate here today. For the Christian People's Party, the fight against trafficking in human beings and the fight for the preservation of the Sex Purchases Act are important. For us, this is an important part of the equality struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e482	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality for the thorough presentation of the government's equality policy. The Council of State indicates that equality policies affect most areas and sectors of society, and they affect us all, regardless of gender, age, orientation, function, religion or ethnicity. Surveys show that Norway is one of the most equalised countries in the world. We're going to be happy about that, but we've still done a lot of things. The report highlights violence in close relationships as a major social problem. The violence is increasing, and the numbers of darkness are large. In addition, we know that it is difficult to identify the extent of violence and abuse. In this context, I would like to highlight one group in particular: ethnic minorities. We know that being a minority in itself can be difficult. You can, among other things: experience discrimination, hate feelings and stigmatisation. One of our ethnic minorities is the same, which I myself belong to. Studies show that Samer reports being more violent than non-cohabitants. The Sami community itself has put this difficult topic in focus. Today, we see that there is a new acceptance to talk about violence and abuse in Sami families and communities. The merger has also committed itself and wanted a separate action plan, and the Right’s view is that the big community must set up. The government is now working on a new action plan against violence in close relations that will have its own share of violence and abuse in Sami areas. It is scheduled to come in June this year. Why is it important to have our own Sami part? We know that many co-workers do not trust the public utility, and therefore they do not seek the help that exists. There are both historical and cultural reasons for this. The assault cases that have been uncovered in Tysfjord just illustrate that. A large part of the victims and relatives experienced that they were not taken seriously in contact with the public when they asked for help. Equality is also about the right to meet an assistive device who knows and understands your culture, and who speaks not least your own language. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have great respect for those in Tysfjord who had the strength and courage to stand up with their stories. By telling them, they have shown that violence and assault are something that can happen in all walks of life, in all cultures and in all religious communities. Violence and assault are something that we can all be exposed to. That is why I am very pleased that the work against violence and abuse is a high priority in the government, and that it should be strengthened and given priority in the future as well. In this context, crisis centres are a central aid body. I am therefore pleased that we are working on restoring and strengthening our own Sami crisis and incest offer in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e495	The Labour Party is now ensuring a majority, together with the SV and the Advance Party, for egg donation and a number of other biotechnological advances on the Stortinget. Finally, women – 90 years after semen donation was permitted – are to be treated in the same way as men who are struggling with fertility. I think it's pretty clever for the Minister for Gender Equality that the Left is sitting all the way on the sidelines when the Stortinget is going to adopt the ten-year equality progress for Norwegian women, against the votes of the government parties. Women are now getting more self-determination. This does not only apply to the right to donate eggs to others. There will also be a majority for women to have their own eggs stored for later use. In the past, this has been limited to women who, for medical reasons, may become infertile. Now women can make this decision on their own. This also completes the circle with regard to women's control of their own family planning. Women may inhibit pregnancy by using contraceptives, women may end pregnancy by taking an abortion. Now women can also promote pregnancy by giving them the opportunity to take care of their own young and healthy eggs. Women who decide to have children on their own will now also have access to assisted fertilisation at home in Norway. Egg donation, own storage of eggs and assisted fertilization for lonely are important and fundamental legislative changes that are now time to come into place. However, there is another decision that will have the greatest impact on most women. We now ensure that Norwegian women have access to early ultrasound in public health. Many women take early ultrasound today, but there is different access to this service. This is about both economics and geography. We will offer early ultrasound because we believe it provides better maternity care for mother and children, but also because early ultrasound in public helps reduce social inequalities in health. The working party is concerned that women should acquire knowledge as early as possible and as safe as possible. In the event of early ultrasound findings, all women must now also have access to NIPT, regardless of age. I finish where I started, and wonder if the Minister for Gender Equality thinks it's a good thing that the Left is standing on the sideline when we're going to adopt these important equality advances in ours. And maybe it's extraordinarily difficult when the Left has been involved in securing a majority for a historical tightening of the abortion law in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e511	Thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality for a thorough statement a few days ago. Equality is definitely about preventing and protecting – mainly women, but also children – from violence in close relationships and rape. Several have brought this up from the pulpit today and perhaps reported their concerns. I believe that concerns about this are not enough. That is why, today, we have made some very concrete and concrete proposals on how we believe the Storting should deal with this particular situation. SV believes that violence in close relations and rape is in fact the biggest challenge for justice policy in Norway today. That's huge numbers we're talking about. We're actually talking about approx. 15,000 rapes in Norway this year, and perhaps twice as many situations of violence in close relationships. This is demonstrated by extensive studies. Only approx. 10 pst. of these cases are notified. At the same time, the police warn that seven out of ten such cases are being closed down. In most cases, people who have reported a husband, a brother or a father for an assault situation get a passive standard letter from the police saying that the case is closed, while the reporter may still live with the attacker. This situation has not been able for Norway to prevent and protect it properly, and I believe this is a very broad and comprehensive political issue. Traditional crime in Norway is falling. There is less profitability and less drug crime, but the police in Norway have not managed to convert their resources to deal with this new crime, the rather violent increase in the number of reports related to violence in close relations and rape. Therefore, it is important for us in SV that we, Stortinget, take responsibility and actually control some of the police work on this. We have already, but also now, made a proposal in which we believe that the police should have earmarked resources for investigating violence in close relations and rape cases. This means that the police are to be governed in how they use these resources. So they should not be able to choose to buy a new car or new weapons themselves. A certain number of resources shall only be used for the investigation of violence and rape in close relations. If the Storting decides this, we will be able to take responsibility for this situation in a completely different way and improve the police's resources to deal with exactly these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e522	Norway is one of the world's most like-minded countries, but when we look at the tax lists of who has the highest incomes, the highest wealth, we see that it's very long again. Only three out of ten entrepreneurs are women. This means that there are many women who lack role models that inspire important direction and career choices in life, but they establish over 60 pst. by all individual enterprises, and the proportion of women for the establishment of a limited liability company is less than 20 pst. Among the 200 largest companies in Norway, 21 have a female CEO, and we need more female role models in business. Women must have equal opportunities to do well in industries where they dominate, just as men can in their industries. The differences in income are still very large in Norwegian society, and we need to think a lot more about equal pay in the future in order to get higher pay in typical care professions, so that the majority of ladies who work in these professions get more income. It will also make it easier for more men to choose these professions. The gender-based labour market plays a major role in the differences we see in working time, wages, careers and opportunities for development. Everyone gets better with a smoother gender balance. The minister has taken up the situation that is today because of the coronary crisis, and very many of those affected are female entrepreneurs in the hairdressing industry and well-being and in other service professions where you experience bad times. One of the most important things the government can now do to ensure that these entrepreneurs continue to do is to remove the excess – NOK 10,000 is too much, NOK 5000 is too much. The government has to set the fraction to 0.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e531	It was interesting to hear the Minister for Gender Equality's presentation. It's not missing my truth on engagement. What is just sin is that equality has enough commitment, but too little political action. The minister was very concerned about the consequences of the coronary crisis and wanted data after the crisis. I am looking for, among other things. the action taken by the Minister for Gender Equality at the beginning of the action and in the course of the crisis, in order to inform the other departments to minimise the consequences of gender inequality as a result of the pandemic. As Minister for Gender Equality, he knows – and he has said it himself – that such crises meet differently. So why hasn't he demanded of himself and his government colleagues that they have sex glasses on when the action packages were to be designed? He says he wants to have increased professional participation among immigrant women, but supports a policy that prevents women with a minority background from participating in the labour market, namely cash support. He says he wants less negative social control, but votes down proposals from the Workers' Party that can lead to that. Equality is about concrete policies, and policy is now moving in the wrong direction. The minister pointed to the right of homosexuals not to be discriminated against and to their own struggle to get married to whom they want – a fight that for him ended well, fortunately. Unfortunately, it's not like this for everyone. Many women in religious societies have approached us because they experience discrimination because of sex. The counsellor of the Islamic Council of Norway discussed the issue on News of the Day 18 this week, and there was little doubt that women in the church felt this was problematic. Many homosexuals have come to us because they are subjected to degradation and discrimination to be who they are. The Labour Party has listened to the women and men who are subjected to negative social control in their own communities, and in congregations that mean a lot to them, and to whom they feel a connection. Nevertheless, the Left and the Government voted against proposals to impose stricter requirements on equality and anti-discrimination in matters of religious and life views. The government and the equality minister failed as it was – and why do I say that? Well, we have learned that demands for more transparency and control lead to changes. It has happened in the Norwegian Church, and we want it to happen in all religious and life-view societies. I would like to challenge the Minister for Gender Equality: why do minorities not deserve the same opportunities as the progressive peoples of the Church? The Labour Party knows it takes time, and therefore in our policy we will invite to a continuous dialogue in the allocation of religious and life-view grants. The government thinks it's keeping control and supervision, they think it's only to bet on one part of the cooperation, and it'll make the way further for those who are oppressed and excluded by society today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e544	I was born into a human world. It became clearer as I grew up. In a row and row, three brothers came. I was now both a daughter and a sister. Thank you for being older, I took early control. Twenty years old I became the store manager in a business where most bosses were men. At the first management meeting, I was appointed to write a record. It is often still the case that the ladies in the flock are appointed to write a record. "If you wanted to write so nicely, can you write more?" came from an older colleague on the sideboard. After each marriage, I married a wife and later a mother to four. It gave me new roles. I commend myself happily over my father's quota. It has given my husband the opportunity to be a father, while it has given me the opportunity to be active. Together, we are responsible for raising four young people in a world that is still largely influenced by men — or by women — a little depending on the profession you have. For me, who has had my entire professional career in the logistics industry, thinking that there is so much part-time in women's dominated professions. ASKO could not feed Norway if they had organized themselves as a health care provider. Whole and full jobs are on paper about calculations to go up, and shifts to be manned. In practice, it is about the offer that is being made. Many of the most vulnerable services we have in the country are based on day-to-day operations. It costs too many part-time jobs. It is beyond the competence and the ability to practice and learn. The right to full-time is not just about equality; it is also about the quality of services. But the math has to go up on the paper. Norway is now one of the world’s most equal countries. Women and men have about the same level of professional participation, and more and more women work full-time. Our policies work. The goal is equal to Norway. Then we have to keep doing the good things, while taking a settlement with our prejudices. There are many of us put in booths, whether it's because of sex, age, ethnicity or function. We must break these prejudices. We are placed in booths already after birth – colors, toys, leisure activities, school. Two thirds of gender differences in the labour market can be explained by educational choices. The health professions will have more boys, while the technologies need more girls, and one will now look at strategies to reverse gender-based educational choices. It's important grips. If my daughter is to be equal, she must participate in work on the same premises as the brothers, and her brothers must be equal parents. Early efforts are then required for everyone to have equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e561	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation. It's nice that such presentations come at regular intervals, so we get the opportunity to see gender equality policy instruments in context. Even better it would have been if it was progress to track from time to time, but unfortunately we now fall on the index, as the representative of the Trettebergstuen pointed out in his article. On 8 March 2016, the Workers' Party launched 50 proposals for increased equality, and it is rather sad to experience that these proposals are equally topical today, for example. the need for stronger action against part-time. Tomorrow it will be May 1st, which others too have been involved in, and for the Workers' Party equality is a central part of the struggle for freedom both nationally and internationally. Many of the slogans that go back from year to year relate to the requirement of equality between women and men in working life – the right to a wage to live off, the right to full time, the right to permanent employment. Today's government has gone in the opposite direction, among others. by weakening the Working Environment Act and introducing general access to temporary employment. It affects, among others: women in pregnancy and childbirth. We see that the level of organization of work is falling. It is worrying, it weakens the fight for equality in the labour market. In January 2018, the majority of the government asked for measures to increase the level of organisation of work. They never came. Instead, the government used its current majority to have the decision repealed. The Prime Minister has stated correctly in Stortinget’s Question Time that she does not intend to present measures for increasing the level of organisation as a matter of her own. Instead, the government is constantly stressing the importance of recognising the unorganised working life. It's losing women. State councils naturally stressed the effects of the coronary crisis. What we're now seeing is that the consequences of the lack of equality are reinforced by the crisis. The unemployment rate is now over 10 pst. Yesterday, business figures came from Nav: 56 000 people unemployed in overnight stays and serving, 59 000 in service provision, 78 000 in trade in goods. The total number of branches is 60 pst. of the unemployed. And who's working there? Well, often women, many in part-time, many in temporary jobs. The refresher has demonstrated that among the new unemployed, there is a clear overrepresentation of low-income and low-educated persons, and there are more women than men. If unemployment becomes permanent, existing inequalities will be reinforced. So a repatriation plan after the corona must therefore have as its main heading: stronger tripartite cooperation for increased equality in employment – because it is fair, but also because lack of equality means waste of human resources. We can never afford that, especially now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e574	Which sex you have should not be decisive for what opportunities you get. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. The number of female leaders is rising, and the proportion of part-time workers is falling. The difference between men and women's average wages continues to decrease. Even though we're at the top of the world on equality, and we're an equal people on paper, we still have to do more to be equal in practice. I believe there is a need for a commitment to research on women's health. Right will provide patients' health care. Patients’ healthcare is about hearing, seeing, understanding and getting good treatment when you need it. It should only be lacking that women and men receive equal treatment, but if we are to succeed in doing so, we need to have sufficient knowledge of the different health challenges for women and men. For men and women's bodies are not equal. The same disease gives rise to different symptoms and different courses of disease. A heart attack does not have the same course for a woman as it does for a man. Just how different the symptoms and pathologies are between the sexes, we don't know enough about them. The reason for this is that the man's body has often been the norm in medical research. In addition, there has been less research into diseases that often affect women. Status has been one of the reasons. We have to turn that trend around. For many years of unbalance in research, we are not able to turn to a hand turn, but we have started well. With the Right in Government, we have raised research on women's health, and in connection with the Women's Day this year, the government also announced that they will bring their own NOU on women's health. It's going to give us more knowledge, and it's going to deal with different issues, such as: violence in close relationships, access for migrant women to health care and mental health. Women must also be confident that they will receive good health care during childbirth. Women across the country were on average more satisfied with maternity care in 2017 than in 2011. Fewer children and women are injured when they are born, and with the Right we have also reintroduced the requirement to have midwife competence in the municipalities. It is important to be sure that you get good skills, regardless of where you live in Norway. So it's safer to be born in Norway, but that doesn't mean it's perfect. We must and still must work to ensure that women meet the skills they require and that they get a sense of security and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e589	I also want to start by thanking the Council of State for the statement on Tuesday. We are lucky in Norway who live in a good country — probably one of the world’s most equal. That doesn't mean we don't have challenges. We still have challenges to solve, and several of them were mentioned in the presentation. Several have also been mentioned in a good way in this debate — whether it is still about eradicating unwanted differences between sexes, or it is about getting more disabled people into working life. It is not okay, as has been mentioned here before, that ‘Jews’ are used as a shell word in some schools in Norway, and that everyone who is a Muslim is suspected in the way we can sometimes see. Despite the challenges, we live in a good country — probably one of the world’s most equalised countries. However, some in Norway are more equal than others. It's actually a good part that's much less equal, and that's kind of a little less valuable than others in terms of the ideals of freedom that others take for granted, especially in some immigrant environments, and especially in terms of women. You don't have to walk many minutes from Stortinget until you get to parts of town where it's quite common for women to be covered from top to toe. You shouldn't show so much of yourself, you shouldn't show as much of the body as men, because it's a danger to one's own honor and that of others. This is actually quite common in some parts of Oslo and in some environments in our country. All culture is not culture. Some culture is also unculture. And that one still has environments where this is accepted in Norway, where it is practised that women are worth less than men and should relate to rules other than men, I cannot accept. Some of the challenges we face in the gender field in Norway can be addressed through regulation and policy decisions. Some other challenges are not primarily addressed by political decisions, no, they are addressed by changing attitudes in those environments where the different viewpoints – human vision – of men and women, and also of other groups, exist. We have to make sure that these attitudes are changed and the ideals of freedom are brought up, because we cannot live with this. It was also mentioned by several others from the pulpit that we have many young people who are subjected to negative social control, whether it's about being sent on compulsory religious training, including Qur'an schools abroad, or the right to choose who you want to spend your life with, or what's about being able to live out your sexual orientation. That's maybe the part of the equality struggle I'd say is the most acute in terms of individual freedom. Much is good in Norway, but we still have challenges, and we need to address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e604	It is difficult to disagree with much of what the minister said in his statement, both because it was primarily an analysis of reality and few measures, and because he smoothly jumped over all the areas where this government is on the wrong side: They increase the cash support, which makes more women stay at home. We got the first tightening of the abortion law in 40 years. The government said no to a ban on homotherapy. There has been a cut in aid for sexual and reproductive health, despite the fact that it is needed more than ever before. And when the Storting decides to allow egg donation, it becomes against the government's votes, because the government has granted the Christian People's Party veto on all issues relating to biotechnology and the progress it can mean for Norwegian women and men and equality. Many have been in the debate about the Corona situation and how it affects everything. Korona hits us all, but it hits us differently. As usual, it hits most of those who have the least. And what's going on in society is also affecting equality. When more people are isolated and kept at home, there is more violence and abuse. When hundreds of thousands are permitted, women are hit hardest. When people stand without a job, it hits them with the least, and many women lose their economic freedom and the freedom to live their own lives because the economy is bad. Here I believe that the government and the Minister for Gender Equality have been far too passive. Where has his voice been to say what kind of threats this poses for equality, as the Children's Ombudsman did when she said what enormous cost this has for children? We have not heard the same voice from Abid Q. Raja. Why has this Minister not presented crisis packages for equality? It's really needed in the time we're living in right now. I think that the evaluation of the coronary situation will show that we had too little policy for what happened within the four walls of the house, and that we had too little policy to see how this increased the differences between us. But I also think we will see that our Norwegian model has made us better equipped to meet this in a way that has been more in line with equality. Imagine if the party of Abid Q. Raja had got a pass to cut the sick pay. Then people had not stayed at home – they had met at work, we had got more sick, and the equality had been weakened. Tomorrow is May 1st. It's a day of gratitude. We thank all the women who have gone before us, who have paved the way, who have made Norwegian boys and girls grow up and live freer lives. But 1 May is first and foremost a day for the future, so tomorrow we will meet those who have washed the floors here on the Stortinget, those who have cared for the elderly, and those who have sold us the food, with something more than applause – we will go behind digital slogans to demand firm, full positions and a salary to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e633	Real freedom we only have when we also have the ultimate opportunity to break out and walk. All in Norway should be able to choose whom to marry, and they should be able to differ. Then everyone must have the security that they can take care of themselves and their family. Working for all is priority No. one for the Workers' Party. The key to integration is work, and the path to work is through education and qualification. We want to give back life to girls and boys who don't live free lives. Then we have to be able to provide a law that gives the police the space for action they need to help girls and boys who live under strong mental pressure. Is the government involved in this work? We will clarify the role of the religious communities and make them responsible. Religious religious communities that do not recognise divorce under Norwegian law, or practice religious courts, believe that we should lose state aid. Why did the government not support this proposal? Everyone in Norway shall have the freedom and the ability to participate in social gatherings, leisure activities, work and other social activities. That is why, year after year, we have strengthened the allocation of national organisations beyond the government framework. We have earmarked some of these funds for the organization Urban Mothers. The goal of urban mothers is to isolate domestic women into society by means of women in the community who speak the same language. Initiatives like City Mothers don't just cheer up. We have to make sure that city mothers can establish themselves in several municipalities around the country, and not just be a local action in Oslo. Why doesn't the Council of State agree to give City Mothers the opportunity to establish themselves around the country? In recent years, we have proposed this in our alternative budget. The government has voted it down. Getting mothers actively into the community can prevent crime and recruitment to the harsh environment. And that could be the beginning of a journey to qualify for work, so that more people can support themselves and get the freedom that many of us take for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e646	Not everyone is with us in the fight against discrimination. There are some counterpowers out there that make that e.g. the fight against hate crime has only become even more important in recent years. The organised hatred has developed in several places in our country, including: in my home region, Eastfold, where they go under slogans to crush the homolobby, and spread hatred against both skews and other minorities. The Free and Skeiv Youth Association is quite clear that we are experiencing a reaction to the freedom and rights of the skeleton. They're very clear that we're facing a retreat. It has actually gone so far that the police security service has evaluated the threat of many of these right-wing extremes organized groups who hate and hoard like me, who love another boy. Hated their crooks, but it also struck Muslims, and it struck Jews. We know that we have a deep and serious problem in this country with the heat and hatred of our friends with Muslim faith. 27.8 pst. by the respondents in a survey respond that they feel reluctance to Muslims; one fifth would dislike having Muslims as neighbors or in the circle of friends; about half of those who responded to the study believe that Muslims themselves are responsible for increased anger; and one in ten believe that harassment and violence against Muslims can be justified. Then it's no wonder we've seen attacks on God's house. When we know, at the same time, that there are developing right-wing extreme attitudes online – but it is also physically present in our streets – that promote hatred against minorities, but that also have female hatred as a fundamental part of the distorted ideology they stand for, we know that the fight against hate crime is more important than ever. The most important thing that happens in that work is the ordinary people do when they meet up on demonstrations, turn their backs on and say no to the hate. But those who turn their backs on need to have the police and us in our backs. We need to expand arrangements with hate groups, we need a stronger settlement with hate. It's also part of the equality struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e655	Norwegian women are world-class on many levels. So the level of ambition is going to be high, so we're going to follow closely when we're going to evaluate the effects of the coronary apathy. Are women more exposed to job lay-offs? Are they more susceptible to virus transmission as a result of a sex-shared labour market or professional preferences? These are questions we need to look at. The left has ambitions for equal rights and equal opportunities. As is the case in Norway today, there are some in equality, while others choose to stand outside. We can't afford to leave them there. The left has high ambitions on behalf of minorities for an even more equal society. For us, the freedom of individuals is closely linked to the development of democracy. Culture and religion shall not prevent participation in employment. The left will have more immigrants in work, especially minority women. As elsewhere in society, labour income will give more freedom and choice to these women and lift their families out of isolation and poverty. For me, promoting a full-time culture in the workplace is something that gives greater predictability and safer economy, which in turn affects housing and the health of individuals and their families. Full-time jobs give women more economic autonomy and better economic rights. While looking at the situation of women, we also need to focus on boys, especially minority boys and their opportunities for education, work and protection against discrimination. The community can't afford to let these be outlawed compared to the sisters, who are doing so well in the Norwegian community. The left sees that education promotes sustainability and gender equality. This is important for both girls and boys in Norway, and for girls internationally. For me, it's equality when the husband invites the wife to stand next to him as a girlfriend, as a partner, as a wife, as a mother and as a grandmother, when parents make sure that not only daughters get higher education, but also sons, when parents from collective societies prioritising sons by inheritance decide that daughters and sons will inherit equally, and when it's ramadan and father invite the wife to stand next to them by prayer, and sons and daughters stand side by side by side. Let's agree to hold on to these individual liberal rights that equality is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e671	There is no contradiction between good equality policies and good family policies — on the contrary. We know, among other things: that families with good occupational distribution and equality at home are better at home statistically. The right to go to work and not to choose between family and work has been a key element in women’s struggle and is an important asset in today’s Norway. Women should not be told that they are making mistakes, that they are at the expense of society if they choose to spend more time at home with their children. An active gender equality policy shall not restrict the freedom of women to choose. In order to safeguard this freedom, flexible parental arrangements, unpaid service provision, the right to be at home with sick children, breast-free, high-quality kindergartens and good-manning – and not least cash support. The previous party leader of the Workers' Party argued against the cash support in his time, saying that we should not reward people who choose wrong. Today, too, unfortunately, we hear the representatives of the Workers' Party expressing the same narrow-minded attitude. So those who choose to stay at home a little longer with their children choose wrong – and therefore they will remove the cash support. It is high time that the Workers' Party took on board that equality is about equal opportunities, not that everyone should have to choose the same. And the important and vulnerable phase in family life while you have young children is not just one thing that the Workers' Party is going to get over, another means that the Workers' Party is going to use to push through its equality goals. That's over 60 pst. by all young children’s parents choosing to use the cash support, tells us that there is, as it were, a loving arrangement, a system they should be able to use with a good conscience without being met by the Workers’ Party’s long index finger. Where other parties use their family policies to achieve other goals, such as a strengthened line of work, we say, the families first. No account should be taken of families. The Christian People's Party sees the family as a goal in itself, and we want a family policy on family premises. This means that the system must adapt to families, not vice versa, that working life should adapt to family life, not vice versa. The Christian People's Party believes that society must facilitate work to be combined with family life in a good way. It can then be done absolutely without equality and family being set up against each other, and certainly without the Effort of the Workers' Party to force all the families of children to organize their lives equally.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e684	Annually, 150 000 people in Norway experience violence from a person close to them, and two out of three are women. A quarter of those who are killed in Norway over a year are women, and they are likely to be killed by their partner. I've seen it closely in my job as a police officer for 17 years, and I remember very well the first assignment I had as a young police officer, when family violence was the situation. We had been asked to drive to an address where a man had beaten his wife. When I got in there, there was a vision that met me that I never forget. There was the Christmas tree on the floor, the TV was broken, the mother was ill prepared, and four children were sitting around and crying. And my father was – sorry about the language – a rabbi, and I and my colleague had to iron him with power and take him out of there with us. No child, no woman – no one has to experience this. For a child, witnessing violence is actually as harmful as being directly exposed itself. In the last four years, there has been a huge increase in reports to the police for violence in close relationships, and Kripos believes that it is because of a lot of focus on it, ran a lot of campaigns, and not least that we have talked a lot about violence in close relationships. I mean, violence in close relationships needs to be spoken in the heart, not bitches in the heart -- that's very good. We now have a strange time where we experience that the number of reviews goes back, because people are very isolated, and nothing indicates that the number of events goes down. That darkness appears in the light is a sign that people receive, report from, and seek help. Things now indicate that women and children experience a very difficult time, and then it is particularly important that we follow what is happening around us, care a little extra and make sure that everything is good with the neighbor. We have an obligation to avert repeated violence in close relationships, so now we actually have to care a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e695	I would like to thank the Minister of Culture for a good presentation. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that equality is based on women and men having equal value and having the same opportunities, duties and rights. Gender shall not prevent anyone from participating in and affecting different parts of society. Equality is about gender not being a barrier to individual choice of education, occupation, participation in child care and participation in other social services. In an equal society, therefore, there must be respect for individual choices — lifestyle, education or work. Equal pay for equal work is a matter of justice. It is an objective that all should be able to become economically independent, both in the working years and at the retirement age. That is why the fight for equal pay is important, which is why the fight against involuntary part-time work is important, and that is why it is important to provide services for unpaid care, and, therefore, it is also important that parental leave, cash support and all the other rights of the Swedish Social Security Act, the Labour Environment Act and the Equal Opportunities Act – which in various ways ensure the right to adapt working life to family life, and thus ensure that men and women are not forced out of working life when they have children. It is crucial for the gender equality issue that working life be organised so that both parents can combine work and time with the family. In the last hundred years, Norwegian society has evolved into one of the world's most equal societies. Norway was one of the first countries in the world to guarantee all women the right to vote in elections, take education and participate in the labour market. But also in Norway, it can be seen, historically, that women have often had the primary responsibility for the children. Although there is still a way to go, during a generation there have been major changes, and fortunately the man has come gradually more on the track. In the 1970s and 1980s, while women's roles have undergone major changes, we have also seen major changes in the role of men in recent decades. Equal responsibilities for children are important to ensure that as many children as possible are raised safely. This is a proper and important approach to gender equality, but it is primarily important to strengthen the construction of society around each child. As a man, I want to have the same expectations for me as for women in terms of responsibility for children, even though I don't have small children anymore. I want a society that has a more equivalent and a more equal parenthood. We need a further strengthening of the caring role of men as something of self-value, which is a goal in itself. That is why, in the Christian People's Party, we have been given an impact for a life course specifically targeted at first-time birthers throughout the country. We believe that this is a good move for a more equivalent and more equal parenthood, while giving new parents support in everyday life. The Christian People's Party wants a society where all adults take responsibility, both men and women. If you put kids in the world, you take on a lifelong responsibility to stand up. And so good family policies are still no contrast to good gender equality policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e710	The right-wing administration likes to talk about equal opportunities for all, but is not willing to adopt policies that bring it about, even in the field of education. It not only helps with commitment, it also requires political action. Sex roles are learned early. They affect the choice of education, the choice of occupation and the percentage of employment offered. Norway has one of Europe’s sexiest labour markets. In the municipalities, for example: 90 pst. by all employees of kindergarten women, 80 pst. of the primary school employees are women. Girls choose courses that lead into professions that are and have traditionally been women's dominated. Women often work part-time, they earn less than men and end up getting less pension paid. Not only has the right-wing government been passive, but it also slows down the development of an equal society in Norway, and in a number of areas there is a gender equality in reverses, such as the right of reservation for non-participants and the restriction of the abortion law. The lack of concrete action from the right-wing government, I believe, is serious. Let me do some examples. We have proposed that the government should develop a strategy to combat gender inequality in education and working life. The working party wants more men into kindergarten, as elementary school teachers, and as nurses. We understand that the path to more equal work begins in the education system, and that a better gender balance is good for both people and society. I think it was nice that the Council of State said that one has seen an increase in the search for nurses, but one has unfortunately not seen an increase in the number of men applying for nurses. Just this example, which the Council of State itself used, proves that concrete policies are needed to reverse the current trend, not just big words. While this government is now considering removing the gender points in higher education, we'd rather do the opposite. We have to have more of that to balance where it's too biased. The government has also voted against our proposal for a recruitment campaign to bring in more male teachers. All in all, a completely different and more powerful effort is needed than what this government delivers. There's been a lot of attention around the Council's hair clippings in the last few days. Jan Zahl, commentator in Stavanger Aftenblad, reminded me of the Bible story of Samson. Samson's insane strength lay in his mighty mantle, but when his hair was cut, he lost all his strength. Let's hope that the history of Samson doesn't repeat itself now and become the history of the Council of State as well. The councils should now use their power to take concrete action and show that he has the will in addition to commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e725	It was the post of the representative Lossius of the Christian People's Party that made me draw again. She came into the cash support and claimed that we, who were critical of it, were opposed to an freedom of choice. But what studies now show is that there are big differences between those using cash support. Most are mothers of one-year-olds, but if the child is born in August, it's only 28 pst. using cash support. If the child is born in April, it's 76 pst. using cash support. Nav prints out correctly: «For most people now the cash support has begun to act as a waiting aid pending the day-care centre admission in August.» So it’s not that you have a choice between having a one-year-old in kindergarten and receiving cash support, it’s simply that if the child is born at the wrong time of year, the nursery place may not come until the child’s mid-second year. If you want full freedom of choice, you should go on building up kindergarten capacity, so that you actually got that freedom of choice. Then we can discuss whether the cash support should still be there. We have proposed a different solution, but also a support scheme for those waiting in kindergarten. Only then would you have a real freedom of choice. Another consequence of the cash support is that there is a huge difference between children of Norwegian parents and children of parents with a non-Western background. 84 pst. by Norwegian parents have 1-year-olds and 2-year-olds in kindergarten, whereas, in the case of non-Western parents, it is 66 pst. who have one-year-olds and two-year-olds in kindergarten. Of parents with background from Somalia, less than 50 pst. one-year-olds and two-year-olds in kindergarten. It turns out that in part it is the children who might have preferred to receive the language training provided by the kindergarten, which is kept away from the kindergarten, but it also contributes to a direct counter-measure to the goal of the Stortinget repeatedly saying they agree, namely that several of them with non-Western immigrant backgrounds, especially mothers, will have an opportunity out of work. This includes, inter alia: the background to the recommendation by the employers’ association Specter, for example, that cash support should be abolished. We were given the freedom of choice through the decision of Stortinget under the then Bondevik administration, namely a kindergarten extension with 170,000 more seats, 50,000 more employees and a maximum price. That's what quality is? And it was not the Christian People's Party that was at the head.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e732	I started my main post by saying that when we discuss gender equality policy, I often feel glad that Norway is working well in this field, but also at a great deal of relaxation over everything that remains of work, both here at home and beyond the borders of the country. This was confirmed in the debate today, I think. In addition, there have been both strong stories and many examples that there is a lot to be done, and a lot of us politicians don't quite have the ability to sort out about equality, while the commitment to improving the situation has been great. In particular, in the context of violence in close relations and in the context of gender equality in the context of the Korona crisis. That's what I think has been good. The exposure of many lots in this field also applies in the form of a series of loose proposals. The lack of time to deal with their consequences, and the fact that some of them have budgetary implications, means that the Senter Party will not support everyone. But we're going to support someone, i.e. no. 7 and 8, from SV, and paragraphs 10th from the government parties. And when we support it from the government parties, I hope the government parties can also consider supporting the proposals No. 7 and 8, from SV, and notice the good intentions in very many of the other suggestions. I need to give an explanation of vote on proposal No. One from Red. Here, too, the intention is good, especially because it deals with wage developments in socially critical occupational groups, and yes: some of these are particularly women-dominated and low-paid. We in the Central Party believe that one in the proposal should have asked the government to ask the social partners to pay off here, and that they will take care of it. So I pee on the minister and ask him to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e741	It is always important – and really quite polite – with the debate on equality in this room. The need for today's equality debate, and for equality policy right now, during this crisis, is great. But as in all the gender equality debates we've had here in recent years, there's a clear difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side. The right side, which now also embraces the parties Left and Christian People's Party, has very many good contributions with sincere concerns and proper references to the areas of Norwegian society where we lack equality, and both fine and frightening anecdotes over our own and others' experiences of being free or not free. But no one gets more freedom from us talking about how important it is that they get it. Equality does not come of itself – it has never done so, and it will never do so. There are policies moving the world forward, concrete measures. It's actually not like we're black-painting the situation when in this room we point out that on many parameters Norway is now reverting to equality. It's in reverse in some areas. In the LHBTI field, too, we have fallen dramatically, and there are six specific policy areas in which the United Nations says we need to clean up before they think that spoons have good enough living conditions in Norway. On the gender equality front, otherwise, it's about women's right to decide about their own bodies, and there we know what the government has done. It's about a lot of ladies not being economically free, and the coronary crisis puts the magnifying glass on it. They work part-time, they're temporary employees, they've got pressured working hours, they can't get established, they don't get house loans, they're not financially free. They have problems with onlineness, sexual harassment and violence – I could have mentioned challenges in fling. The problem is that none of these challenges are resolved as long as there is no concrete policy, and this government has weakened and cut off policies that promote equality and otherwise have not taken any new initiatives. All that the Council of State points to here today, whether it's gender terms in the penal code or other things that have been done, has been done on the orders of the Stortinget. I hope that the Council of State will take with it the commitment he had for the equality issue when he was a magnificent, and not see himself satisfied with his own government's total willingness to bring equality forward – because then we won't get far.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e754	It may be appropriate to recall all the action plans mentioned by the Minister for Gender Equality in his statement, after what was closest to the Workers' Party's predictions of doomsday on gender equality. I would also like to remind you that we are in second place on the most recognised equality barometer. It really annoys me that Iceland is ahead. It's a lot about women and wages. When a man makes NOK 100, the woman earns NOK 87. So women are not the payroll. This is largely about women's participation in business. It is about what more people have been about here, that we have few women entrepreneurs – women who will lead their own jobs and be the boss. It is again about the sex-shared labour market. I would like to remind you of the action plan for women entrepreneurs, which was launched in the autumn of 2019, which has 13 concrete measures to increase female entrepreneurship. It's a little bit sad that it's only 14 pst. by women applying for start-up aid. Here you need a real puff, and that action plan is part of it. One of the puffs mentioned in the action plan is entrepreneurship. We know that there is a lot of commitment among girls in entrepreneurship in high school and student entrepreneurship, but something is happening when you choose your occupations. Here we have to go into school and get both teachers and businesses to be active participants in the school. We need to get more female role models that stand out. A small comment on women and part-time jobs: I would particularly like to encourage the municipality of Oslo, which is one of the leaders in the use of part-time jobs, especially in the care sector. It is the municipalities that are the worst in terms of part-time jobs — it is not the private sector. I would also like to correct something: the Government and the Right have not said no to prohibit conversion therapy. On the contrary, the government will present a case about this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e769	There has been a good debate, and it has been focused on many important issues. In the end, I just want to draw out the whole social image that equality is part of, and that we might sometimes overlook. There has been talk of inclusion and community for women, for homosexuals and for people with disabilities. But then it's these little things that come to expression, and that's actually a little bit incomprehensible. For example, when the Workers' Party: promoting proposals to include hate expressions in the law on religious and life-based societies as a criterion for obtaining grants, there is nothing to vote for. Then the right-hand government cut $3 million. During the night to KABB – Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and the feeble – there was nothing to think about. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party was not in government then, so they got to reverse this proposal. When we talk about glasses for children, it's about equality, inclusion and giving people a level playing field. We see it in terms of strengthening the field of volunteering. Now it is a rapporteur's insurrection to strengthen voluntary activity. What's the option doing the most? They organise and facilitate the participation of all people on the basis of the assumptions they have. Cut to young people: does it give young people greater or fewer opportunities to participate in the same line with everyone else in those arenas where they want to be present? The disease, which was mentioned here, and which Left will change, NOK 600 000 to a medicine phone for the blind – it's small money, a odor tablet for people with the intestine out – there's a lot of small things. But what is very important for a society to function and to be equal is that it is also in the small things and in the whole of politics a policy that always promotes it by including. This is worrying, because if we see the signals coming from the outside, the most right-wing conservative signals, is it more nationalism, more discrimination, more hatred and a narrower society? for the few privileged. I hope that gender equality policy in Norway will continue to lead the way, but it requires one to see the broad responses in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e782	The representative, Freddy André, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e787	Thank you for a good debate, but unfortunately also a predictable debate. It has been characterised by many good, committed contributions, but, as usual, on the left hand side we are left alone to promote concrete measures and concrete proposals that actually lead to more equality. I just need to make a brief explanation of vote. The SV's proposal to invite the parties to dialogue on decent pay and working life for women-dominated professions and the SV's proposal on action against violence in close relations and the evaluation of the gender impact of the Corona situation has inspired, so there have been quite similar proposals from other parties. Therefore, I would like to inform you that SV will vote in favour of all solutions in the Chamber, and hope that several parties do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e795	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e800	I'm actually a little tired of being accused of black-painting every time we point out the statistics so clearly, that this government is increasing the inequalities in society, and this government is weakening equality. And those that go beyond are the people who don't get the freedom they should have been given in their lives: the crooks who are beaten up, or the ladies who don't get mortgages, etc. Talking about action plans that are far below a drawer does not help. We know it doesn't help, it doesn't move the world forward. The only thing that does that is to implement concrete policies. It does – once again – the opposition today through loose suggestions. The Labour Party is going to vote in favour of most of them, but a small explanation of vote on some proposals from SV and Red, which goes on pay and low pay: we cannot vote in favour of proposals that interfere in the formation of wages – it must be up to the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e805	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e810	It was the chairman's posts I wanted to comment on, because there is a broad consensus that it is important for women entrepreneurs. It's about using the entire creative and creative potential of the population and about equal opportunities. But that there should be a significant contribution to the cohesion between men and women, I strongly doubt. Men have a total of 134 billion. kr more in net worth than women. They own 80 pst. of the share values of Oslo Børs, men have 53 billion. kr more in capital income, and 81 pst. of those who make more than 1 million. in Norway, are men. So what really creates cohesion between men and women is to create cohesion between rich and poor. If one gets cut in wealth taxes, cut in top taxes, more privatisation of what is owned by the state, there's a greater difference between men and women. That is why a good social democratic policy is also a good policy on equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e817	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e822	I just notice that the Workers' Party believes that all the action plans proposed are in a drawer. They don't. But if the Workers' Party does not want more action plans, we will remind them of the next time the Workers' Party is promoting it. So to the representative Giske's posts. What we need are more women entrepreneurs, setting up business leaders and more female millionaires in Norway. It creates values, that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e842	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e856	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3 from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 4-9, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Kristin Ørmen Johnsen on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. One from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to engage in dialogue with the social partners on wage developments in socio-critical professions, in particular women’s dominated and low-paid professions, in order to find out what the government can contribute by means of appropriations to ensure wage increases.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e885	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from Red. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose increased funds to strengthen the staffing of kindergartens and schools and to ensure adequate clean-up staff for the gradual reopening of schools and kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to include the protection of women as part of measures against the coronary apathy and to provide additional means of combating violence in close relations.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e909	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 9 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asking the Government to make rapid proposals for action for women’s dominated professions which are particularly affected by the effects of the Corona situation on the economy and working life on its own account for the Storting, including measures to increase full time, to start long-term work-reduction efforts, to increase manpower and to engage in dialogue with the parties on pay gap for women’s dominated professions in the public sector, as well as on specific measures in women’s dominated private sector industries such as service industries. ‘... Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to incorporate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into the Human Rights Act, in order to give the Convention precedence in Norwegian law.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e933	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the work against violence in close relations is prioritised by the police and other relevant actors by earmarking funds for police work on violence in close relations, implementing the PATRIARK and SARA tools in all police districts, and that a share of the new positions of the police as a result of the coronary crisis is to go to the police’s work against violence in close relations and, if necessary, return to the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an exceptional cross-sectoral effort to combat violence in close relations as a result of the Corona situation, in particular for better interaction between relevant actors such as police, crisis centre, child protection, school and health services.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e958	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked in the future to evaluate the social impact of the disease protection measures, including the evaluation and acquisition of knowledge on the impact on gender equality, including violence in close relations and gender equality in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norway takes on a driving role internationally in the use of the Corona situation to prevent sexual and reproductive health and rights, such as abortion, and that development policy takes into account the economic impact of the pandemic in particular.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e982	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from Right, Left, and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to monitor the impact of the coronary crisis on the gender equality field and to return to Stortinget with results and findings as appropriate.’ All parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e997	The Minister for Culture and Gender Equality’s statement on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors is annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-04-30.ana.ud19e1051	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
