ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e83	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Per Espen Stoknes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget from 17 December and until further notice under the leave of the representative of Une Bastholm due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates, Kristoffer Robin Haug, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e105	Kristoffer Robin Haug is present and will take the seat. The request for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde from 17 to 19 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Yassine Arakia, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e127	Yassine Arakia is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Tvedt Solberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e134	On behalf of Nina Sandberg, Jorod Asphjell, Marit Arnstad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Mona Fagerås and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on the leverage against teaching shortages in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e139	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e159	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the debate will be divided into two parts, so that the budget chapters will first be dealt with under Framework Box 2 and then the budget chapters under Framework Box 3. At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: In each part of the debate, the allocated speaking time is limited to 1 hour and speaking time is allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party and the Right 10 minutes and other party groups as well as members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, part 1 and part 2 of the debate — within the allocated speaking time — will give rise to up to three lines with replies from the main figures of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e174	Safe and good families provide the best conditions for a good upbringing. Families are different and have different needs, and the main priorities of the budget for 2021 are primarily to target the families of young children. We also want to strengthen child protection and have competence measures for them. Similarly, there are also revenue-balancing measures in the budget. One of them is that we're increasing child's pension again for the smallest, and we're also increasing the one-time benefit, which is going to be 90,300 kroner from 1 January. Cash support was increased in 2020 and is now NOK 7 500 per month. It has become more flexible and can be combined with time in kindergarten. There is also an obligation to live in order to get it. We want a society with small differences, where we can give priority to measures for families with low incomes. So it's going to be set at $25 million. kr to income-grade parental benefit under school leisure arrangements and free school leave schemes in some selected municipalities. In addition, 70 million has been added. kr for housing aid for lone families and families with children. It is important for children and young people to have a meaningful leisure time. In leisure time, you meet friends and create networks that often last your life. That is why we wanted to introduce a national leisure card. We have started the roll-out of this, and funds have been allocated to get more municipalities into this scheme. There are many municipalities applying for it. Violence and assault are a major challenge in society, and the escalation plan against violence and assault was over 1 billion. in 2020. This sum is continued and further reinforced in 2021. The Ministry of Children and Family budget prioritises the efforts of families in very challenging situations. This will reduce the risk of violence and abuse against vulnerable children. The number of children receiving child protection has increased in recent years. Some 55,000 children received assistance from child protection in 2019. About 1,000 of these live in an institution. Child protection is criticised by many teams, and we have received several judges in the European Court of Human Rights where parents have been supported in complaints about child protection decisions. Reports from the National Audit Office and the Health Inspectorate also point to the need for improvements in child protection. Much of this is about competence. The quality of child protection must now be enhanced by the establishment of master degree training. Funding has also been allocated to 350 places of continuing education. They shall focus on both legal competence in the field of child protection and, in particular, on mentoring competence and relative competence. We get a new child protection law in 2021, and the Stortinget has already dealt with areas in the new law. Among other things, the right to follow-up protection is extended to the age of 25. That's why it's set at 24 million. kr to session after-protection for this group. We have also decided that municipalities must report annually on the state of child protection to municipal politicians. This will allow policy-makers to gain greater ownership of child protection and to give better priority to the measures to be taken in the field of child protection. I am also pleased that the government is going to put forward a foster home strategy and that it is going to set up a sample for the investigation of the institutional child protection system. The legal security of children in child protection shall be improved and the Stortinget has asked the government to set up an expert committee to investigate this. The health care of children in the protection of their children must be improved and it is set at 30 million. for the establishment of multi-disciplinary health monitoring for children to be placed away from home. In the corona situation, many child protection services have received fewer concerns than usual. I am pleased that we have now opened a national portal for anxiety messages, where it can be notified digitally. It's thanks to the government's computer program, DigiBarnevern. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e207	Through the Korona crisis, I had hoped that the eyes of the Right Government and representatives from the Right, who still seem to be closed, would be opened, so they saw the importance of the ladies working in the important women's offices – those who have now been on, went to work and put themselves at risk of keeping the wheels running and for the rest of us to be safe. She's the one who works as a maid, that's the nurse, that's the cleaner, that's the one who works at the store. There has not been a manner of clapping from balconies and rosy words from the right side, but when it comes to making the working life of these ladies a little better and more decent, giving them whole, steady positions, a pay to live off and retirement from the first crown, we see that it's just party speeches and clapping from the right side. Why does the representative believe that these women do not deserve whole, permanent jobs, pensions from the first crown and a salary to live off – when the Right continues to vote against our proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e214	First of all, I would like to say that it's amazing how many have been involved in this task that has to do with the coronary crisis. It's not just about the coronary crisis, I'm thinking, what the representative's dealing with. This is about women in part-time jobs in general. What is at least the case is that during this government there have been fewer part-time jobs, especially in the health and care sectors. It is a high priority to get more women into the entire, permanent jobs and not least to get the salary you deserve. In the case of a pension from the first dollar, we have a pension settlement in the Stortinget. Now we are working in Stortinget with a further improvement of the pension. This applies to pensioners, so in any case, minimum pensioners will get a better pension. But there may not be much comfort for these women, so in any case I would encourage them to join trade unions, so that they can work for permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e223	The last representative mentioned from the pulpit was the health surveillance of children when they are to be cared for by the State. The Central Party proposed that this be legalised. We did not receive support from the government for this, but the representative Ørmen Johnsen has been positive about it all the way and has also given support to the Children's Ombudsman that this is a very important measure. Once you've got this in place in the government budget, it's only 20 million. kr there. The Children's Ombudsman says this is too small. The centroid plus 10 million. kr in our alternative budget, and I want to ask the representative Ørmen Johnsen what she thinks about whether the sum that is now there is more than good enough, or whether it should be bigger, as the Children's Ombudsman says.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e232	I mean the sum is 30 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think we need more funding for this in the future. This is a start-up and applies in particular to children where the State assumes parental responsibility. That's who it's about. I'm also concerned about law-enforcement. We get a new Children's Protection Act for treatment in the spring, so I expect we'll get back to it. I look forward to the work and not least to a thorough and interdisciplinary health monitoring. So we stand together in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e239	Over 111,000 children grow up in poor families. It has increased every year, and there is now a record in the number of poor children in Norway. While we've set that record, we've also recorded the number of billionaires each year. So the question is where the budget is for child-friendly and family-friendly government. I noticed that the representative, Mrs. Örmen Johnsen, spoke in his post about income balancing. My question is whether it is family-friendly, child-friendly or income-balancing, for example. cutting the spectacle support of children, cutting the child supplement for disabled dependants or cutting the transitional support for lone dependants, to mention some of the many unsocial cuts this government has carried out, which have affected children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e246	I think we have a very good budget for children and children's families, and one of the good things is that we've actually managed to raise child's safety. It's a good handshake for the children's families. We have also spent more money on, among other things. leisure cards, so that children have a good and meaningful leisure time. We've put in funds, so kids are going to get on a summer vacation, etc. So I think this budget is quite focused on child poverty. We know that the most important thing to get people out of child poverty is that parents are at work. So this is also about government inclusion. There are many parents with a migrant background who are not working, and this was something Jens Stoltenberg pointed out as early as 2013, when he was interviewed by Dagbladet and said that getting to work might be the best thing we can do to get out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e259	First of all, thanks to the Committee on Budgetary Control, which has been quite challenging and demanding, given us the political situation we have. Engaging politically is about wanting to improve everyday life for people. How it's going to happen, we have different views. As a social democrat, I know that a fair and equal society is needed to ensure as many as possible a good life. I believe that cooperation and community give strength, that confidence among people is weakened when inequalities increase. Without wise political leadership, more outsiders experience. Public schools and hospitals are crumbling, and finally, the foundation wall of society is so loose that ordinary people become unsafe. Under the right-hand rule, differences are increasing in Norway. Policies contribute to the withdrawal of society, our common property is sold, important parts of our common well-being are underfunded or left to commercial companies with economic gains as their primary purpose. The richest are premiered with high tax cuts, ordinary people pay the bill. The result is the opposite of fair distribution and increased trust, as the Norwegian model assures, a weaker community than the workforce has built up in Norway over decades. The children are hit hardest when the differences increase. The Minister for Children boasts that the amount of child benefit will increase next year by NOK 300 per month for children up to six years of age. But the priority is that the richest get their first, because from 1 January the tax cuts start to work, the increase in the price in kindergarten as well, while families have to wait for increased child welfare until a complete pregnancy has occurred. The government also acts quickly when rich people complain about the tax burden. Changes in the rules needed to ensure that the tax municipality of Bø did not lose the fact that the rich who moved there were dropping taxes, took a day or two. Since the rapporteurs from Lavangen and Årdal needed help to secure the most vulnerable children in the municipalities, the legislation could not be changed. These are symbols and important directions of a policy that is even for its own, in a nutshell from right-wing government. Modern Norway is built on the idea that the weak are not to be determined by the goodwill of the strong. We have through wise choices worked away from the omniscient society, prioritised common people, so that alms become superfluous, and we don't want to go back to the universal society again. The Labour Party budget for 2021 gives municipalities the opportunity to develop the welfare offer to people, to have SFO schemes for all children and school food. Children in child protection can have more employees with better time. Organisations may involve and include more. For example, our compensation scheme would mean that the Blue Cross in Kristiansand would receive NOK 322 503 more, the Church's Bymission the same place NOK 207 234 and the Red Cross in West Agder NOK 145 903 more. This money they could spend on what they wanted – the whole year. I wonder what they think about the budget, for example. the 111 000 children who grow up in permanent poverty, the 200 000 unemployed, the 364 000 unemployed, all those who are afraid of Christmas, the parents who are in line for food, the families who do not get holiday money on their daily allowances – do they believe that this budget is a budget for them? Exteriority can also be reinforced in closed and extreme religious environments, and we cannot have it that way. More children and young people need to have access to sports and leisure equipment through the BUA. According to a SpareBank 1 study, three out of ten parents choose not to introduce children for some sports because it is too expensive, and 15 pst. has chosen to take children out of a sport for financial reasons. The BUA scheme, which has shown how an entire school class can be involved for the first time on the day of activity, is not a particular priority of the government — as cheaper beer, wine and tax cuts for the richest are. The speakers of the government parties are certainly boasting of their budgets today, but they are talking to, with and about their own, not to the many common families struggling, and the children who fear themselves for Christmas. The Workers' Party expects requirements for and controls to be carried out on the religious and life-view society. The source of help, the environment in which people in difficult religious breaking processes can get help, deserves the support of society, and the Workers' Party has proposed to grant what they need. We need a new government. Finally, I refer to the Workers' Party's proposal for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e289	The representative Kari Henriksen then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e296	The leisure card and the introduction of it are precisely intended to prevent exclusion, as the representative mentioned in his statement. Workers' Party-guided Drammen has applied to participate in national leisure card testing, and there are 15 000 children who enjoy it. Then my question is: what will the Workers' Party do now if the Workers' Party comes to the power of the autumn – they will take away these 15 000 this holiday card and the 15 million. kr that will accompany you to the municipality for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e301	I'm very happy to get that question, because then you can figure out what the leisure card system really is. There is a bureaucratic system in which a lot of money goes into reporting and application writing, and there is a need for more staff in the ministry to deal with this scheme. The solution of the working party is to use the existing structures today and not to introduce new schemes that no one will have. Volunteership doesn't want it, the sports committee doesn't want it, the municipalities don't want it. But the government thought it was a good idea. And they spend the money inappropriately. If those in need of leisure activities today are to wait for all children in Norway to have leisure activities, I think they have completed the studies and started their job well before it was introduced throughout Norway at the rate set by the government. But it's part of the government's adhoc policy: they give with one hand and take with the other, and it just gets clumsy and divided.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e308	Private institutions are currently a very important part of Bufeta’s institutional services. The working party is not necessarily concerned with the fact that there are children who get the best offer, but who provide the services. In fact, the Labour Party goes so far in its budgetary remarks as to say that private commercial actors are not ‘fit’ to care for vulnerable children and families in society – a rather poor claim. It does not help to glaze an insolvent beard if you do not have a covering for it. I wonder: how can the Workers' Party defend that they will send all the women who work in these institutions into unemployment if you do this overnight? And how will the Workers' Party cover all the costs this will entail for the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e313	Unlike the Progress Party, we have a good policy to ensure that more people come to work. We have a good policy to distribute money in a different way, so that more people get safer to be at work. And we have a good policy for ordinary people to live their lives better. In the case of commercial actors in child protection, this means that the Workers' Party wants the money that the community grants to vulnerable children to go right to the children. They are not to profit from those who have the most from the past. We want a public bet, and it actually does the whole Storting. The Christian People's Party and the government were on a proposal where we were to phase out commercial actors in child protection and step up ideals, but that the public interest was to be around 60 pst. It's a good distribution, which will benefit the children in Norway in a very good way, instead of money flying out of the country to other actors who don't work with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e320	It's a little expensive to have children, and that's also why many people are waiting to have children. The Christian People's Party does not want it to be that it is only those who have very good finances, who can afford to bring children to the world. That is why we have not only increased child welfare, but it has been very important for us to increase the one-off benefit, and we have prioritised that in every budget round since 2013. So in the new year, the one-time benefit is over 90,000 kroner. It means an incredible amount to them. But the Workers' Party therefore chooses to cut the lump sum – strong – in its budget, and it is serious, for seven out of ten of those who receive one-off benefits, women with low income or on the limit of low income. Cutting the one-off amount of NOK 30 000 will clearly hit those who have the least. So how does Henriksen think that this could be social policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e327	It's social policy because we're strengthening the other structures, so poor women get to work and don't become dependent on government alms. We do that because we believe that part of the measures that the Christian People's Party is behind in the government, which increased cash benefits to people for not using public measures, are completely wrong policies, it's a wrong way to go. It locks women away from work, it keeps people away from work, and it allows women to get a longer way to get back. It also greatly affects the marginalised women, who really need the proper structures of society to work well for them, which the Christian People's Party does not add up to. So that's our policy: we redistribute the money to good structural arrangements for women and children who need the community to set up for them, and not through cash benefits, which actually makes them stand outside the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e339	It was very exciting for the first time to be in this hall here on the house and present an alternative budget, as the Progress Party has done this year. That's why it's natural for me also to get into it a little bit, even if we have a budgetary settlement – subsidiaryly – with the government parties. As a child of a stammering representative, I have told you several times in this pulpit how important it is for the Progress Party to secure the future of our children. For us, it is very important that everyone should have the right to a safe growth. A bad growth is actually something that can shape a human being for the rest of his life, with all that it involves both human and economic suffering. In our alternative budget, we therefore proposed to strengthen the work against violence and abuse against children, by 20 million. kr. I am very proud that the Progress Party has been involved in the escalation plan that the government is currently holding, which has gone over several years, but we see that the challenges in this field are great. I'm also happy to say that there was a total collapse that, during the coronary crisis, defended many of these families and especially the vulnerable children. It's scary to see what individuals are actually able to expose children to. Luckily, the Progress Party had a positive impact on this budget was to strengthen the Stine Sofie Foundation by 2 million. NOK so that you can operate after protection in the municipalities for the children who have received an offer here. However, I have to make a small announcement. The progress party was very happy when, in the revised budget earlier this year, we were able to obtain money for the child protection agency. This was something the Progress Party put into its alternative budget, and I really hope that the government will follow up, even if we did not get through to it in the negotiations this time. The Party considers that a key element in ensuring the safety of children is the maintenance of a wide range of child protection services. As we heard in the line change, there's a very different view of this, even within the parties. For the Progress Party, it is essential that the public ensures growth conditions that are best suited to the individual child, and when assistance and follow-up in the family are no longer sufficient, we must be able to offer others. We are of the opinion that each and every child should have the best possible offer as quickly as possible, and where other parties put political ideology in front of the best of the child, the Progress Party is not willing to do the same. That's why we're going to use private, to the extent that it's needed, and they're giving the best offer. I would also like to stress that there is reason to be concerned about some of the things that have come about child protection in recent years. Although there are an incredible number of skilled employees out there, we also know that this is wrong. A weakened trust in child protection is in no way a good thing. That is why the Progress Party proposes in its alternative state budget, among other things. to increase child protection competence by an additional 20 million. kr. For us, it was also very important to highlight what was the concern of the Children’s Ombudsman when it came to health monitoring in the field of child protection. Also there, the Progress Party in its alternative budget had a proposal for a further strengthening, of 10 million. kr. However, I have great faith that there will be good dialogue with the Committee on how this will be followed up in the discussions that come to spring. If I'm going to bring forward two other things, since the foster home strategy was mentioned by the committee chairman, I'm very happy to continue working on the bridge builder project. It is important to take care of the foster parents and the efforts they make for us, and not least – even under the same roof – we need to focus on the siblings in foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e366	In the line to Kari Henriksen, the Progress Party said it wasn't just important to talk about things, you had to do it in the budget. The tension was probably great in all departments when the Progress Party negotiated with the government parties. All state councils, including the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, certainly wanted more money. But when one sees the comparison between the Progress Party and the government parties – when the Progress Party was finally out in freedom and could hold the tie to Jan Tore Sanner – there is no trace of bet on children. Not one budget line under the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, what we are dealing with today, has increased. What's the explanation that the Progress Party found 8 billion? kr in increased expenditure on the State budget, but not one kr to the Ministry of Children and Family? One and a half billion were found. kr to cheaper candy and 1 billion. kr to cheaper shower. I think the children in Norway need something more than that in a bet for the good of children, as the representative spoke about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e371	Then it might be tempting to ask the representative Trond Giske if he has at all read the budget agreement. I'm almost beginning to doubt when we know, as the committee chairman was about, that we've had an impact on the card, we've increased child welfare, we've done a lot on the issues of violence and assault, and we've got bets on children and young people. The one-time benefit was pulled out here. I'd say it's a glimmer of a ridiculous attitude towards the economy of these young children's families when one draws up the tax bill on, among other things. showers and other goods. This actually means something to the families, it means something when you bring your wallet and you're out shopping. It means that many of these families have been taxed, which had never happened to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e376	It is touching to hear from the Advance Party's concern for multinational child welfare funds and their ability to profit from the offer of vulnerable children. We've got a new report a short time ago, which estimates that in just one year it's going to take 1.2 billion. kr out of our welfare services in private profit. In the field of child protection, foreign groups have wide coverage. The share has increased from 23 pst. in 2010 to 60 pst. in 2018. Then I wonder: When the Progress Party is so dedicated to combating public waste – turning on every one of the taxpayers’ crowns, nothing is unnecessary – why is it so important for the Progress Party that foreign groups can take the tax money for our children?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e381	It was almost a wish question from the representative of the Supreme Court. You can turn it around. For the Progress Party, it is all the more important that vulnerable children get the best offer. However, SV cannot stand behind it. For them, what is on the uniform, and who provides the services, is more important than what services are offered. I think it's very special. We know that with the policy SV wants, one must have a legislative change, but not just that. We're talking about over 1 billion. in new budget budgets for the fulfilment of SV's ideological dream and war against private actors. You could actually ask back how they're going to cover this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e386	We do that in our alternate budget, it's just looking up there. I want to continue on this question because the Progress Party is extremely tough about knocking down ordinary people like that. Maybe they've got a little too much from Nav, common people who depend on performance -- vulnerable people, sick people. They shall be taken; social security workers shall be hard hit. This has also been stated by the Progress Party in government with great skill, while when large groups, the economic elite in Norway and internationally, pick up our tax money and use it for all sorts of strange things other than what the community has granted them, i.e. the protection of children, that is quite fine. Why is it that people should be taken for social security, but let the rich take the community's money without consequences?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e391	It is touching to hear how the representative from SV is concerned about people's tax money. He's actually going to spend over 1.2 billion. kr in the year only to deprive private of the ability to provide good services to vulnerable children. You can also twist it. The representative's talking about how he's invading the budget. The representative also uses oil money. Where did the oil money come from? Indeed, from what SV does not really support in terms of policy, but also this is the return on investment abroad and in other major multinational companies. If SV is to arrest the Progress Party on how we solve things financially, they should go on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e401	With our well-developed welfare state, Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, which was put to the test when we were also hit by the coronary pandemic, and 2020 ended up as a very special, difficult and demanding year. But one of the nice things about all the difficult things was that when the crisis occurred, political Norway showed that party political disagreements are secondary, that we stand together for the good of our country. Crisis packages and compensation schemes were put in place. We in the Center Party did not quite agree with the government about the devices and the financial framework, and we are still not, but we have tried to be constructive and find solutions, and it naturally bears our alternative budget for 2021, as we still have to deal with the covid-19 and the consequences of the pandemic ahead. Our alternative budget is also marked by the fact that our country has been run by the government of Solberg in various constellations since 2013, because it has to repair the damage from these years, where we have thus had seven years of centralisation, including the closure of a number of services around the country, such as hospitals, county offices, courts and study facilities. Our preparedness has been weakened, and so has the economy of a great many municipalities and counties. So the differences have increased, and the distance to services has increased. It should really be a matter of course that the quality of services should be equivalent throughout the country, but it is not, and people are frustrated and feel discouraged. For example, in the last six months, no longer figures on how many frustrated rapporteurs I have spoken to, who are disappointed that they are losing state jobs, while at the same time getting more and more tasks transferred to them, without the government leaving enough money behind, which forces many of them to e.g.. to drop out of primary schools or to drop out of good offers for children and young people. The centre party will take action against this. The centre party will work for a good and equivalent public service offer throughout Norway, regardless of where you live. And we don't, like the government, want to give large tax credits to the rich, but we want to balance social differences, and we want to ensure good growth conditions for children and young people. In our alternative budget, we do it, among other things. by proposing a And we're proposing over 900 million. kr more than the government of kindergartens, among others. to cover the government’s non-compensation for the nursery code. We're proposing a total of 154 million. kr more to introduce the Finnland and Svalbard supplement in the child's safety since September, to increase support for children's glasses and to introduce free school fruit. And we want to strengthen the midwifery and school health services in the municipalities by $35 million. kr, increase the funds for various projects for children and young people from low-income families by 7 million. kr and strengthen the cultural field and voluntary sector in general with a total of 670 million. kr. We also see, of course, the great need to strengthen and extend all the compensation schemes put in place to curb covid-19, until July. Another very important priority is to strengthen public responsibility for good enough staffing in municipal child protection. We're proposing 230 million. kr to it, a reasonable sum, together with our great burden on the municipal framework, especially now in advance of the child protection reform to come – a reform that child-restraint workers around the country have told me that the fears are going to be greatly underfunded by the government. Municipal child protection employees already have a very demanding job, not least because there are too few places already. It contributes to a high level of labour pressure, a long process duration and a high level of penetration and sick leave, factors affecting quality, the working environment of employees and the ability to provide good and sound services. That is why there is a need for funds for many more municipal child protection positions, and I wish that the government had also given this case a higher priority. Moreover, for the Centre Party, there is no real desire for a development where an increasing share of public welfare services is owned and operated by commercial operators and groups. We in the Centre Party will strengthen Community solutions and work for responsibility and operation, that it should be as much as possible in the public and non-profit sector, and therefore, among other things, we are re-prioritising. 140 million. kr from private commercial child protection services to public child protection. The centre party has otherwise seen that it is absolutely necessary to propose more funds for new, good grips which have either been adopted or are to be introduced, and proposes 15 million. in addition to the government's budget for the extended after-shave protection for children in child protection and to quickly put in place the health monitoring of children under the care of child protection that we have talked about earlier today. In addition, we want to strengthen the foster home investment by a further 5 million. kr and the children's houses with 10 million. kr. This was rather impressive, but I will end by saying that I am convinced that prioritizing children and young people – and not least the most vulnerable of them – must become an even more important issue for Norway in the future. The Central Party's alternative budget shows, with our bets and not least with our 5 billion priorities. kr more to the municipalities, that this matter is important to us. Then I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e426	Then the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e433	It is striking that the party that they believe to be the party of the districts does not trust that politicians can give priority locally where the shoe prints the most. Individual municipalities are best placed to prioritize their own resources and measures where the need and benefits are greatest, and it is important that municipalities have the freedom to assess how the overall range of offers to vulnerable children can best be managed and organised, whether more employees are needed in the field of child protection, or whether efforts should be made elsewhere. User studies show that there is no difference in the user experience across organisational forms between institutions. What, then, is the representative’s reason that the Centre Party is now engaged with SV and Red with its resistance to private and, in particular, non-profit service providers, on which the representative was involved in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e440	Thank you for the question. The centre party has for a long time gone ‘on leadership’, as the representative says, with those who believe that public tasks, in particular tasks such as child protection, should preferably be in the public domain. We're a champion of the supplement that ideal actors can give in this area, but we don't want profit to go out of the state and not be returned to these services. There's more than enough need for that. The claim that the Senterpartiet – of all – is not concerned with the autonomy of the municipalities also seemed to me to be a nice approach. There I just have to say that I completely disagree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e448	It's touching to hear the representative's commitment to the district. However, I must say that I missed the Senterpartie a little bit before it could have been hooked on the door for very many of the private kindergartens. Fortunately, this was not the case, because the Progress Party was also able to see through there in the budget agreement. But I'm worried that the Center Party has moved on to the same line as SV, Red and partly the Workers' Party in terms of the private institutions in Child Protection. I think we totally agree that children will get good deals, but if I heard the representative right, you do this by re-prioritising some funds from the private institutions of today. But if you're going to do this, this bill is going to be over 1.2 billion. kr. How is the Centre Party going to cover it?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e455	In our budget, we have made this clear. Also, to signal to the government that we are waiting for them to implement the decision to increase our use of non-profit actors and not so much commercial, we have re-prioritized 140 million. kr from the purchase of commercial services to the government. Of 3 billion kr that is on this budget is really just 5 pst. It is fully feasible in 2021, and it is an incredibly important matter. And since the government is not speeding up this case, as the Storting has decided to do, we have to show it in our budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e460	It was a little difficult to read about, but I expect the cash support to be included in the Central Party's budget proposal for the coming year. If so, the representative will have to solve it. But I have also registered that parts of the Center Party's program committee want to get rid of it. The Christian People's Party will always fend for the freedom of choice of families. We think that parents know what's best for their children, and that not only those with very good advice should have the opportunity to choose to be a little longer at home with their one-year-old. But now the Center Party has begun to waver, and so I'm asking, is it that the Center Party has now settled on the same dominant state - what is the best-for-family line that has the left-hand side? Or will the party continue to facilitate that families can actually choose, by offering them cash support also in the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e467	Cash support is still in our budget. It's programmed in us that we fence it around, but it's likely that there might be a discussion about it at the national meeting. It is quite unclear at present whether the gap in the programme proposal has great support, so it is too early to say anything about how this is going to go. But for so long – which has been a steadfast opponent of the cash support before I became politically engaged – I have recently learned so much about it and met so many people who benefit from it and the freedom of choice that the representative here points to, that I am not going with very high shoulders in that debate on the programme proposal at the national meeting. I guess that point stays standing, but that's not good to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e472	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e477	A tough year has made the economy of many families even tougher. Nearly 200,000 are now unemployed. Earlier, more than 111,000 children grew up in poverty. It's a record lot. 11 pst. by those who are the mother or father of a child alone, and are in work, are below the poverty line, and the lonely caregivers have reduced their income under this government. After seven years of unsocial cuts that have hit families' finances, ranging from the children's supplement to the underwear or the spectacle support for children, the pandemic came. There are now more and more queues at the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymission against Christmas and more and more parents who have to ask for finn.no if anyone can donate gifts that they can give to the kids. It is good to see that people represent each other in Norway, but this should be unnecessary, because in Norway, all children will have the right to a safe and well-growth, and the community will take care of it. One shall not be dependent on asking for alms. Every meter in the line to the Salvation Army is a fallout for the welfare state. Every ad on finn.no about help is a failure for our security network. Because while the government shows an impressive ability and willingness to cut the taxes for those who have the most from before – now we're up to 30 billion. kr – there is a shortage of income hedges and the economy of ordinary people. Therefore, SV proposes a budget for fair distribution, for the benefit of ordinary families. We don't increase child welfare just for those with children under six years of age, and we don't allow municipalities to subtract child welfare from families receiving social assistance, no, we increase child welfare for all children, by 1.2 billion. kr, including all the children who have parents receiving social assistance. We know that the first year of a child's life is incredibly important for the rest of the growth. Therefore, we propose that all families should have at least NOK 200 000 in parental leave when they have children, a minimum floor for all, which will help, in particular, single-parenters who have not been remunerated and who receive only a small one-off allowance today. This is just two of many steps we propose in our budget, to make the wallets of the families a little more liberal. It is about a fair distribution policy, and it is not least about creating a secure framework for all children's growth. If we add together the entire SV state budget, including child welfare, tax relief for ordinary families, free SFO, but also climate and environmental taxes, and take a normal family with two adults, two children, ordinary income, who owns their own home, then the family is left with well over $11,000 more with our arrangement than with the government's arrangement, while at the same time the most wealthy, the most wealthy, the more than $5 million. kr in income, must pay more. We take from the big wallets to give to the little ones among us, from the big bank accounts to the little kids. It's a fair distribution policy for the many, to the benefit of families most. Many of the most vulnerable among us have suffered most this crisis year. We see an increase in violence in close relations while the offer to those affected, in the municipalities, is hard pressed. This concerns both the crisis centres and the protection of children, to mention something. The road to the crisis centre was already a long way off in many places in the country, and in the field of child protection, employees have rebelled against poor staffing for several years. Therefore, SV proposes 250 new posts in child protection, so that employees should have time to see, listen to and help every child, and we suggest 150 million. to strengthen the provision of public institutions in the field of child protection, in order to make us less dependent on child protection barons that take out profits. We're suggesting earmarking $300 million. kr to the crisis centre offer, so that no one will meet a closed door when they need help because they have been subjected to violence. We face the crisis of refurbishment of the welfare state in terms of both the economy of ordinary people, the fight against child poverty and the offer of the most vulnerable among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e501	I'm going to mention female entrepreneurs in my post. Right is very concerned with economic equality between the sexes, and then female entrepreneurs are incredibly important in order that women can also create their own jobs, create a future for themselves. The care sector is what we like to call a woman-dominated sector. 450,000 women are employed in the health and social sector. Why does SV want to limit the ability of women to create businesses by excluding care services, and does it really believe that a private home help is a welfare profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e506	It is obvious that the representative Haukland wrote his reply to this matter before we received the report from the Welfare Service Committee, which delivered its NOU on profit in welfare a few weeks ago. That report confirms once and for all what we in SV have said for a long time, namely that women entrepreneurs, the Salvation Army, ideal actors, are being squandered out of our well-being. We only see in child protection alone, as it is the responsibility of this committee that foreign groups, i.e. international purchasing funds registered in tax havens – not exactly women entrepreneurs – have increased their share of child protection revenues from about 20 p.m. to 60 pst. in eight years. They're not women entrepreneurs, they're welfare professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e511	Yes, the oil is they're against, but the money they want, and they want to use it, also as a result of returns and profits. SV also said earlier in the debate that they were afraid of waste and taxpayers' money. At the same time, they say that they don't want private individuals to be able to profit. That would strictly mean that you should not really be able to go with profits either. The representative from SV says we're going to take from the big wallets and give to the many, but how many big wallets are there if you can't run with profit, if you can't run with profit? It is actually this that keeps the wheels going in Norway, that you have businesses that are going around. So I wonder, if you're not going to spend oil money on the world of dreams of SV, or the big wallets: are you going to send the bill to ordinary taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e520	Thank you for that question. There were many good moves to talk about a lot of exciting. First of all, I think it might be interesting for the representative, Mr. Hemdal, to attack SV for the use of oil money first, to look to their own party and formerly their own government's oil money usage versus SV's oil money usage, because we are reducing the use of oil money in our alternative budgets, while this government has put record in the use of oil billions. And then I'm going to answer the question directly and say that no, there shouldn't be any surplus on child protection, there shouldn't be any surplus on kindergarten, there shouldn't be any surplus on our old age care, because that money is community money. It is the community that has granted millions and billions of dollars for better provision for vulnerable children, for better provision for the elderly and for our kindergartens. No one shall be allowed to withdraw from the service to use on private profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e530	I want to go back to the NOU on private operators in the welfare state, which the representative has been through several times already, and will encourage him to read the entire report when he first draws his conclusions from it. Some of the findings in the report are about, as he has been about, that 20 pst. by welfare services today – quite correctly – provided by private and non-profit actors, and they translate for 30 billion. kr. And yes, they have a surplus of 3.7 pst. Experience figures indicate that the corresponding public-sector operation is much more expensive than the 3.7 pst, and even municipalities must have a surplus of one year to set aside funds in order to meet difficult times the following year. So actors without profit are an illusion. Can the representative explain how to replace 20 pst. of the offer we are talking about here, and not least how this should be defended from a user perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e535	The answer to the question from the representative Pettersen is quite simple: we say that all actors who want to operate, for example. child protection or care for the elderly or kindergartens shall be allowed as long as they do not withdraw the benefit from the service. There is a difference between having a profit from one year to the next and leaving it in the service to make sure, among other things. a better child protection service, and taking the profit out of the service and putting it into a bank account on some tropical island with very many mailboxes, such as the international funds do in our welfare service. It's obvious. We have also seen where the municipality has taken back the community's control of welfare services: employees get better pay, they get better pensions, they get security back in the service. It's going very well, and it's our plan to do for the whole country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e540	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e545	I am very proud of the government's children's and family budget. Child protection had remained silent for over 20 years, but it is now being increased on the Third Watch of the Christian People's Party in two years. One-off social benefits are also increased, which means an incredible amount for those waiting for children, but who have not earned the right to parental leave. And the cash support continues to ensure families freedom of choice and more time with their little ones. In other words, this is a budget that really warms the heart of the Christian People's Party. Violence and child abuse are a serious social problem. It is a threat to children's health and growth, and it is our goal that absolutely no children should be exposed to this. Children are vulnerable, they are trusting and loyal to their caregivers, and are often exposed to violence and abuse against children too late. We need to do more to protect children, and therefore the Christian People's Party will continue to prioritise early efforts in this area. It has been important for us in this budget to increase the effort associated with the escalation plan against violence and abuse by 87.3 million. NOK 2021. That means that the total bet for the escalation plan is about 1.1 billion. NOK 2021. We have also been busy making it easier to get in touch with help agencies without having to leave home – that you should always meet an open door despite shutting down society. This is why we have contributed to the establishment of helplines for parents and the use of support tools in municipalities, which will facilitate the detection and follow-up of vulnerable children. We've also allocated 8 million. kr to the Children’s and Young People’s Alarm Phone and to the ‘SpeakAboutPsyken’ chat service under the auspices of the Blue Cross, as during the outbreak of covid-19 there has been a marked increase in the number of contacts with these important services. For those children who grow up in families with persistently low incomes, life has an unfair start. Children in low-income families are more likely to have mental and physical health problems; they often report poor grades and less well-being at school and often have poorer and worse housing conditions than other children. Several in the group also tell about solitude and concern for the future. In order to break the pattern and prevent poverty from being transferred to the next generation, it is essential that children and young people in this group be able to participate in society under as much equal conditions as possible as other children. The government has therefore now presented a cooperative strategy for children and young people in low-income families in 2020. The aim of the initiative is to promote inclusion and participation and to strengthen the opportunities for children in low-income families. The leisure card for children aged 6 to 18 is an important contribution to removing economic barriers to participation in recreational activities. When we know how much participation in fixed, organised activities has to say for the experience of community, inclusion, play and mastering, we have to make sure that absolutely everyone can participate. That's why I'm proud that we're now above this budget of 120 million. kr more to continue and extend the scheme to even more municipalities. It has been really great to experience how well the leisure card has been received in the pilot municipalities until now, and how municipalities implement it in their inclusion and combating exclusion strategies. In order to strengthen the economy of young children's parents, we have to increase child welfare by NOK 3600 per year for children up to the age of six. This means that in the last two years, child welfare has increased by DKK 7 200 per year for this age group. It's a historic increase and a very important bet and also the most accurate way to reach the families that have the least. Another important measure to help families who are struggling financially is the one-off benefit, which we are now increasing to over 90 000 kroner from 1 January. From 2013, the Christian People's Party has made sure to almost triple this support to those who are waiting for children, but have not earned the right to parental leave. That way, we give people the opportunity to choose to have children regardless of when it's most economical. This is a budget that reflects the policies and priorities of the Christian People's Party and that really helps to strengthen the children and families in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e564	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e569	The discharge tour of the right-wing government around the country has cost tens of millions of dollars over some organizations. Some sheep and others don't. The number of children growing up in persistent poverty is increasing as a consequence of government priorities for the richest. The Labour Party has a comprehensive policy which includes, inter alia: regulated VAT compensation, and as I said: Blue Cross in Kristiansand would have received more than NOK 322 000. We introduce the BUA system that is being strengthened, and all municipalities could then have offered free equipment. We introduce school food, reasonable SFO and kindergarten. Is the cuts in spectacles, the removal of holiday pay for the prospective parents and the ABE cuts – which this government is also increasing this year, leading to more than 700 million. kr i cut in the framework of child protection – a good exchange for increased tax cuts for the richest and fairer beer and wine?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e576	Kari Henriksen probably has a completely distorted picture of what we're actually doing to raise both the low-income families and the children in this budget. We've increased child welfare, and that's a historical increase, for the first time in 20 years. We've also got a holiday card that will really be a boost for the municipalities that work to include children and break patterns that are often inherited. We have also strengthened the housing support, and we have strengthened the one-off aid. Not least, we have the grant scheme to ensure that schemes for holidays and leisure activities for children can be applied for, and that is 365 million. Now kr. It has been quadrupled since 2014. Overall, the whole cooperation strategy that the government is making, with 65 different measures to include low-income families, is an incredibly important initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e583	Church maintenance has been an important matter for both the Christian People's Party and the Center Party for many years, especially because it is very demanding for the municipalities to maintain and repair their peaceful church buildings, so the aftermath is great. Fortunately, the Stortinget has now decided that the medieval churches in stone should be restored before 2030, even though the Christian People's Party opposed this and was concerned that this decision should not destroy the maintenance of other important churches. Well, what happens in the budget negotiations with the Support Party Progress Party? Well, the post office for church maintenance, which should have been bigger initially, is cut by 10 million. kr. For us in the Center Party, which is increasing by 30 million. kr, it's almost not to understand that the Christian People's Party is involved in this cut. Then the representative can explain to me why they choose to cut as much as 10 million. kr, when one has only the time and the way in order to comply with the decision of the Storting to repair the medieval churches in stone until 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e590	I don't see the cut that Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen mentions, because the total sum that we set aside for the refurbishment and maintenance of churches for next year is 60 million. kr. And in the years that have been, we have prioritised this time and time again. With this allocation, it's going to be 20 million. kr for general maintenance, and then it will be 40 million. kr that goes to the climate shell, and also to repair the electrical system and replace the furnaces that are in the churches now. But I think it's very great the commitment that Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has, because our church buildings are an important part of our common Christian heritage, and we have a very great commitment to get them established.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e595	More than 111,000 children grow up in poverty. It's high. And then we know that increasing child welfare is the most important thing in the short term to get kids out of this terrible statistics and give equal opportunities to all kids. But what's so provocative, what's so indescribably unfair, is that many of the children who may need the child's security of all, most of all, those who have parents who go on social welfare, don't get child welfare, because the municipalities regard child welfare as income. The size has previously done so that children’s own income is not taken into account when calculating social assistance, but has shown that we can go in and correct injustice in this calculation. I want to ask the representative Lossius why not the Christian People's Party has cleaned up this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e602	The Christian People's Party has ensured that the whole increase in child welfare is excluded from the calculation of social welfare benefits by increasing the indicative rates of social welfare measurement accordingly for that group. And then we've come up with a strong call for child welfare, including that part at the bottom, to be kept outside, but so far it's up to the municipality. But I think it is actually quite unmusical of SV to criticise this because they never managed to prioritize any increase in child welfare when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e610	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e615	The government is working to ensure that all children and young people receive a safe and well-growth. Child welfare is a well-being for all families with children. In the current year, we increased child benefit for children up to 6 years of age by NOK 300 per month. In the 2021 budget, the government proposes a further increase for the same age group. This is particularly important for those with low income. Today, with the decisions, it means that the amount of child benefit increases by NOK 8,200 for this age group in this period. Participation in leisure activities is of great importance for good growth. The government has launched a test project with leisure card schemes. The leisure card shall cover attendance fees for regular organised activities for children aged 6 to 18 years. The aim of the leisure card is to give more children and young people the opportunity to participate. We're proposing $180 million. kr to continue and extend the pilot project in the budget for 2021. The government is concerned that family policy should take care of all families. So we're proposing to raise the one-time benefit to 90,300 kroner. It's almost a triple since 2013. The lump-sum benefit provides a more stable economic environment in the post-natal period for many low-income families. Too many children and young people are hit by low incomes and exclusions. Therefore, the government has put forward a cooperative strategy to promote participation and strengthen the opportunities for children in low-income families. In addition to the increase in child welfare and the leisure card, we propose, as part of that strategy, among other things. strengthening the national grant scheme to include children and young people with 38.5 million. DKK, total over 350 million. kr. Violence and abuse are a serious threat to the health and development of children. One scope study shows that one in five has experienced several types of violence. The government has therefore prioritised the follow-up to the escalation plan against violence and abuse. The government will increase the bet by 87 million. NOK 2021. We strengthen the provision of treatment to people at risk of child abuse, and we strengthen the provision of treatment to young people with problematic or harmful sexual behaviour. Too many in the Sami population have a high threshold for contacting public services. That is why we are also proposing to strengthen the Sami competence in the field of child protection, family protection and the provision of crisis centres. Early efforts are essential to prevent violence and care failure. We are therefore also proposing to extend the family for the first time. The programme is a preventive measure for first-time births in challenging life situations. 2021 is working on expanding capacity and establishing new testing areas. There have been major deficiencies in the provision of health care to children in the field of child protection. Children in need of both health and child protection services must receive a comprehensive follow-up. The government therefore proposes to strengthen the health care of children in the field of child protection. This priority shall provide children with better health, quality of life and increased opportunities for lifelong learning in the field of child protection. Youths who have experienced care failure often need longer time to make good transitions to adult life. Therefore, the government also proposes to grant funds to increase the age limit for post-closure protection to 25 years from 2021. Vulnerable children have become more vulnerable under the pandemic due to the measures taken to prevent infection. The situation is assumed to persist in parts of next year. The government has therefore proposed funds for actions targeting vulnerable groups as a result of the pandemic. The provision of the Children’s and Young People’s Alarm Phone was extended to day-to-day operation in 2020, and a chat function was established to help children and young people in need of contact with child protection. This is what we propose to continue next year. In addition, the government proposes over 150 million. kr in the additional action number for vulnerable groups. These include: the means proposed to strengthen the staffing of other auxiliary telephones and to increase support for participation in holiday and leisure activities for vulnerable children and young people. As a result of the covid-19 pandemic and the accompanying travel restrictions, there is an increased risk of bankruptcy among package tour operators. We are therefore also proposing to strengthen the Travel Guarantee Fund's ability to meet its commitments in 2021 with a commitment of 104 million. kr. This has been a demanding year, but 2021 looks a bit better. A good budget for children and families will help that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e645	This year's budget from the right government is, like the previous, a budget for the richest of us, while ordinary people are eaten with petty and dramatic cuts for them. Cuts are unfair and unsocial. Negative social control is also about exclusion, which affects many, and which the government follows too poorly. The help source reports that more people they are in contact with become long-term ill-reporters and that some people are dismayed by having experienced offensive conditions in religious and life-view societies. They've asked for $1 million. kr in the year’s budget for predictability and continued operation. This million did not find the government, either before or after the negotiations with the Advance Party. What is it that doesn't make the government find 1 million? kr to the Auxiliary Source when they have a budget full of many other unsocial and unfair cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e652	I really don't share that description of reality with the representative. This is a budget that, not least, spends a lot of money helping the very smallest children. Consider the increase in child welfare during this period: NOK 8 200 – a fantastic boost. And I have a strong belief in the leisure card, where we're going to give children between 6 and 18 years of age the opportunity to participate in fixed, organized activities. That is why I react to the fact that the Labour Party only takes away the money, removing the trial procedures. This is a project that we have great faith in, and that we're going to roll on. But I share the concern of the representative related to negative social control. That is why, in the law, with the new religion law, we have stepped up reporting, but also the control function of ensuring that those who participate in religious communities are well served there. There's so much amazing that happens under the control of different religious communities, but it's also important that we supervise them. As far as the different priorities are concerned, there are many good purposes that I would like to have. And then finally it's a priority, and unfortunately we didn't get money for them in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e661	Thanks, that's a good word for the money. The working party uses, for example: the money spent by the government on tax cuts to make child care prices more reasonable, making the SFO more reasonable. We want to introduce free school food schemes, while this government increases kindergarten prices and introduces, among other things, need test. And this holiday card that everyone boasts of means that there are some selected children in some municipalities who get the benefit of that card, while other municipalities, who don't get this, have to wait. The net increase in child benefit will be NOK 155 per year when families have paid the increased child care price. And now there are 5,053 children in kindergarten queue. What freedom of choice will the Minister say that these families have to choose to go to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e670	First of all, I would like to say that we have extended the rights associated with getting kindergarten from when the representative himself ruled the country. We have been committed to expanding the number of nursery places, because I agree that real freedom of choice is about the possibility to choose kindergarten or cash support. The working party will remove the freedom of choice when they want to liquidate the cash support, and has great mistrust of all families – that they choose faults for their own kids. That decision must be allowed to be made by the families themselves. I am concerned that this budget is helping to strengthen the opportunities for those with low income. The calculation to which the representative himself referred is that the increase in the amount of the child's pension is obviously NOK 155. But that means something to those who have bad finances. In addition, the representative speaks of need testing as being dangerous or damaging to those with low income. No, the very needs test related to kindergarten allows those with the lowest income to have free core time and to have reduced rates. That means that those who have the least get more, and I think that's a good principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e677	The council knows my commitment to the Auxiliary Source, and I have challenged him earlier from this pulpit on what he will do to help them. The progress point had added 1 million. kr in our alternative budget precisely because we know what this offer means for those people who are in incredibly difficult situations. It has also proven a number of documentaries in the last year. I had a little hope, now that the council traveled around with Christmas gifts, that perhaps the source of help was one of those who would get the dæmon to visit, but unfortunately I haven't got any such news yet. I wonder, can the Council of State specifically elaborate on what he wants to do to support the Source of Help?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e684	As I said to the representative last time, it is a measure that I think is very good at. Then there will always be a question of which measures will receive funding from the State budget. When the representative said that it was in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, at least there was no resistance from me that did not end up getting appropriations when the budgetary agreement was there. This will be a priority issue in the future budgets, and they are also involved in the design of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e689	Now the situation is so that we in our country today can read that the aid source actually has the knife on the throat. Then we can't wait until the next budget. I know that e.g. The Minister of Culture has sometimes managed to turn around and find money for good purposes. Perhaps the Council of State in this field also has this possibility? At least I would strongly encourage you to turn every stone, so that these people who are so dependent on this offer can get it. But another thing I want to promise on this issue is the follow-up of the law of faith and life that the council said instead. Paragraphs 6 to 2 are not in force, and we in the majority want a marshaller to implement it. Can the council say anything about when he believes the law can get a date?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e696	I will follow up the source of help and see if there is anything we can do, but it is the Storting that grants money. But I will investigate the matter. As far as the law of religion is concerned, what we discussed in the spring when it was adopted was that the decision on Section 6 – to which there are many important arguments – had to be examined first. We're in the process of doing that. I dare not promise an exact time, but I see a clear marshall in the comment from the committee, and I will do my utmost to meet it. But there are some demanding considerations, with which the representative is well-known, so we have to be sure that we land this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e704	Now I'm going to deal with something new and serious, but it's affecting the budget. When Norway is in court in the European Court of Human Rights, and not least when we lose, it costs money. In the daily newspaper, it was found yesterday that the government attorney has actually stated that Norway is going to lose the next 30 child protection cases in the EMD, that the EMD has designed things to take on Norway because they want to come to the conclusion that there is something wrong with Norwegian child protection practices. These are very eye-catching statements about the accusations against the EMD, whether they are wrong or not, and about the prospects for future judges in 2021. If we lose all the upcoming child protection cases – how much will it cost us? And does the Council agree with the opinion of the State Attorney-General, so that in the event we should have increased the posts on the State budget that are affected by the future losses?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e711	I just saw that there was a push warning that the EMD rejected the one case that had been pending today, so that means that there are not all cases Norway will be convicted of in the EMD, although there were probably more procedural reasons why they rejected the case. I am not afraid to comment on the opinions the representative refers to. I am confident that the EMD will make a thorough assessment in the various cases. I am aware that they want to simplify the handling of the remaining cases – there are probably only three judges to deal with them – and that this could lead to an increased risk of one being convicted, based on previous practice of such a type of treatment. But I have great confidence that good judgements will be made on those questions. When it comes to compensation, I have to admit that I am not quite sure which item and cost it will have. That's something we might have to get back to if it requires more appropriations, but I think that's going to be okay within both the external and other items in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e720	I want to start by giving honor to the Christian People's Party because they've got some increases in child welfare. There is something SV and the Christian People's Party have been standing on our side of politics for quite a long time. Nevertheless, I have to ask this further that those who may need it the most, those who have parents who receive social assistance, do not get child welfare. The Christian People's Party in the Government has decided to increase the indicative rate of social assistance corresponding to the increase in child welfare. My question is whether the government has an overview of how many municipalities follow the guidance rates. Such an indicative rate is a call, you could call it, from the state. I just asked Nav, and they said they don't have an overview of which municipalities are using the government indicative rates of economic social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e727	At least I don't have the overview in my head here I'm standing right now, so I might have to look into that. There is also a balance sheet on the amount of reporting and bureaucracy to create in the different schemes. There's local freedom of action here. But I know that there are a lot of municipalities that follow the guidance rates, and then I know that there are other municipalities that calculate it the way SV and the Christian People's Party want, for example. keeping the child benefit out of the calculation of the income base. What I am also concerned about is that although we have not been able to see through what we wanted, it is at least a very important point that we send a clear signal to the municipalities that they have to take this into account. I'm also aware, from that I've heard from other municipal politicians, that they're computing child welfare, but they're increasing the rate of social assistance, so they're counting it in a different way. That means it's done in different ways locally. My wish is that local politicians then take a responsibility to ensure that these kids, who may be in a very vulnerable situation, get the best possible starting point to ensure safe and healthy growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e741	We are facing a global crisis that requires rapid decisions by national authorities in all countries. In this situation, it is important that we pay attention to the fact that help and action are taken by all those who need it and that no one falls outside. That is why we need to assess the gender impact of the measures we are taking. The Ministry of Culture follows the situation closely. Children’s, youth and family directorates, Bufdir, have been assigned to follow the gender impact of covid-19 in key areas such as violence and working life. The Directorate regularly reports to the Ministry of Culture on this matter. We have a good starting point for continuing to work with an equal society. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. For the third consecutive year, we're number two in the world. The difference between women and men is even smaller in 2019 than it was in 2018. That's good. The government’s aim is to ensure that everyone participates in equal opportunities in Norway. As Minister of Gender Equality, I will fight for freedom, for cohesion and for community, for the opportunity to live a free life. Norway is also at the forefront of policies and rights for LHBTIQs. However, many LHBTIQs face barriers to social participation. We also see that many have negative attitudes towards LHBTIQ people. The government's current skew action plan expires this year. A new action plan shall be drawn up. The plan is for it to be presented in 2021. The Government proposes in the State budget for 2021 to increase the grant scheme for the LHBTIQ organisations by 2 million. kr. This is an important strengthening of a grant scheme that contributes to making a difference in the field. People with developmental disabilities and people with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to violence and abuse, and it is important that we have a system that takes care of the group. For this reason, the government of the State budget for 2021 has proposed 5 million. kr to the scheme TrygEst. This will help to provide more municipalities with training and knowledge in detecting, capturing and assisting vulnerable and vulnerable adults. There are people who feel afraid to show what religion or ethnicity they have, people who are afraid to express their opinions. Racism and discrimination are destructive to society and to human lives. The Government’s action plan against racism and discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity and religion has actions in nine different areas, such as: debate, democracy, education, housing, work and the criminal justice chain. Negative attitudes towards Muslims are widespread in our society. In fact, research shows that the entire 30 pst. the population has some kind of prejudice against Muslims. The government has presented an action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims. The aim is to prevent and prevent discrimination and facilitate dialogue and exchange. None of us want the type of attack we have seen to take place in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we have these different action plans. In the State budget for 2021, the Government proposes to establish a new grant scheme of 8 million. against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. It is the first time a national grant scheme is introduced in this field. The grant scheme is an important measure in the action plans in this area. Finally, I would like to say that working for equality is a good policy. It's smart to do that. That's the right thing to do. It's the right thing and the smart thing for individuals and for society. And that's why we have to work all the time to get better. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the committee and not least the entire Committee on the Good Interventions in the field of equality and non-discrimination. I look forward to the debate, which will also follow this field in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e782	At the end of the day, the Council of State said in its article that investing in equality is smart to do. Then it is probably not so smart to bet on schemes that counteract equality. Now, for 20 years, we've spent over 50 billion dollars. a system which is harmful to the workline, which keeps mothers out of work, which is harmful to equality and which damages integration, i.e. the cash support. Selection by sample, post-report report, has pointed this out without the government having listened. At the latest yesterday, the city and living conditions committee came to its conclusion that cash support creates living conditions challenges, and they propose to liquidate the cash support and introduce free kindergarten, in line with the views of the Workers' Party. Billing representative Abid O, Raja said last year that he would wind up the cash support. What does Minister for Gender Equality Abid Q. Raja think about the report and conclusion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the cash support, which came yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e789	I believe that my view of cash support is clear, and the view of the Granavolden platform on this is clear, and of course, as the Council of State, I stand for the government's overall policy. I also think I have to spend some time acknowledging that we don't have to dig down here. We have to keep in mind that we're actually the world's second-best country on equality, and evolution is moving in the right direction. I heard in the previous word change that women had a share of part-time employees, and since the beginning of 1972, the proportion of women who have been part-time employees has never been lower than now. So that proportion has sunk from us into power as a bourgeois government. From 2013, when part-time women were at 40 p.m., it has now fallen to 36, and the proportion of full-time women has increased from 60 to 63 p.m.. There are a total of 76,000 more women who have entered full-time positions because of this. So gender equality policy in Norway is good. My view of cash support is clear. This is also the view of the government, and as Minister of Culture, I conduct the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e798	Clearly, the Council of State does not want to talk about the anti-discrimination and anti-integrative cash support. With regard to the decline in the part-time share, the Workers' Party-led red-green government introduced ten legislative changes to increase the right to full-time the year we had to leave the government offices. The red-green policy works, and that's good. A non-future area in which Norway actually goes back to the statistics on good countries to live in is the statistics on countries that are good to live in for LHBTI people. There are five concrete reasons why we fall on that ranking. One of the important reasons is that we don't have a ban on harmful conversion therapy. The Left Party agreed with the Labour Party that it had to be banned, the government would just investigate it, and then we haven't heard anything. When will the ban on conversion therapy come?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e806	The representative was on three themes, and I think I replied that my view of the cash support scheme is firm. There are a lot of articles to read online, so it can take the representative some time to google up to. My view of it has not changed. With regard to the fact that the Labour Party's policy is conducted by this government, I will refute it. So now there has been a bourgeois government in power since 2013, and it is the bourgeois government that has ruled the country. It is our policy that governs this country. It's not that it's the Labour Party line that lies here. I also believe that from that point of view the proportion of women in government positions has actually increased, the proportion of women in part-time employment has fallen, and the proportion of women in full-time employment has increased. This is a policy that actually works. It is not that the socialist parties have a monopoly on equality policy; the bourgeois parties are also concerned with equality. In the case of conversion therapy, there is a work in progress. I have explained this in a question hour here in the past as well, and there is a thorough investigation work to be done. The left's view of it is quite clear, and I think the representative knows that too. As soon as that investigation is completed, we will adequately explain the government's views on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e815	The Councils of State were in many important areas in the field of equality — great action plans, etc. I am pleased that he has spoken against social control in several speeches by the Minister, about how important it is to get immigrant women to work, and how to take care of people with disabilities, etc. We can ram a lot of good things, and of course the fight against racism. But there's one thing I miss a little bit in the equality debate, and that's the focus on men. It's going to be very often for women. Historically, there is a good reason for this, but we know that many men too have tough times in Norway today. The progress of the project included: into 1 million. kr to MannsForum, who raises the issue of men on the agenda. I wonder what the Council of State thinks in an equal opportunities perspective about cohabitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e820	I actually pressed 'like' on the representative's Facebook posts. I think I saw it today. I said I think we all have to agree that cohabitation is a udder. The representative is concerned with a lot of good things. Under the corona situation, the government is concerned that equality can have a small break. I'm going to explain this in the next gender policy statement next year, because hopefully we'll have more overview. But we're concerned that domestic violence can increase. It can lead to increased isolation, and it can lead to more violence. At least we know that in some immigrant environments there is a different view of women and girls, and that the patriarch in the house rules in a completely different way. On a global scale, we know that equality gets a real break when a crisis arises. We know, for example. that in the world there are 33,000 girls who are under the age of authority, and we know that during the crises it is particularly hard. In any case, I will conduct that debate together with the Progress Party and others in the Storting and try to help us focus on men, but that we also maintain the focus on women.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e825	I am impatient about the action plan against violence in close relations and have sent a written question to the Minister of Justice about it. We're probably going to work well with it too, but I want to get back to the challenge of gender equality and focus. One of the topics they often address, which has been seen in a number of elements of the debate, including: through TV2, it is mostly men who are affected by cohabitation. This child and family really hit around, not just the other parent, but they're often men. I also think it is a challenge for equality, and I have challenged the Minister for Children in a number of questions from this pulpit, on written questions and have been told to wait for the NOU from the Children's Law Committee and other things. I get no clear answer to what the government will do with co-operation. What will the Minister for Gender Equality do with cohabitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e830	Firstly, it is important that we target where we stand politically in this, valuable. I think we must agree that cohabitation is a udder. To the extent that there are agreements or it is a court order that you have a right of association, children in other safe families have good relations with both parents. We have to agree on that. The left and the government have, to a large extent, also been concerned with father policy. It is important that children have contact with their fathers. That's why we've had a cardboard board that we've fortunately introduced and increased. I am very pleased that the representative is concerned about the action plan against violence in close relations. I can assure you that this is also the Minister of Justice. I would say that the men who beat their wives, who beat their cohabitants, who beat their children, are cowards, and that kind of violence in close relationships we shall have zero tolerance for. I think we have a lot of measures to do this, but until we reach the zero vision, we have to continue to have different measures. I also look forward to creating the new action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e835	We hear from the Council of State that the Left is an active defender of equality, but some religious communities are not quite on the level with the Left in that way. Some religious communities do not carry out active equality work, and this may be especially true of mosques and Christian religious communities outside the Norwegian Church. Together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we promoted a proposal for a 40 pst requirement in the Central Party in connection with the new Faith and Life View Act. representation of women in governing bodies which manage public support, i.e. not in the theological work. It was not supported by the government. Now that the Left has equal responsibility in the government, isn't it a golden opportunity to also attack this great equality problem in a slightly more active way than the government handled that question in the messages of faith and life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e842	I think some of these questions are under Roppstad's constitutional responsibility, so I'm not going to go into the details of this. I think there are some differences in the rules of discrimination for the spiritual positions, i.e. those that are about priests and those who have religious assignments, but there are also different rules that apply, for example. whether you have posts in the board and care. It's quite obvious that we have an incredibly long way to go in order to achieve full equality in some religious communities. This concerns several religious communities, but the representative mentioned Muslim, so let me take them. It's obvious that you're miles away from getting there that you're getting closer to what we in Norway know as equality, even within the religious communities. Negative social control has now been seen in NRK documents for several types of religious communities, several places in Norway. These are things that we haven't quite had our eyes open to, but we know that, above all, this is a big problem in many Muslim environments. The fight against this is an active policy on which the government will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e849	The State budget is also an opportunity to sign promises and decisions made by the Stortinget. A year ago, we had an intense debate about banning conversion therapy against scabbards in religious societies, including, after hearing the stories of people like Brian and Arne Christian, who have stood up and told us about the abuses they have been subjected to. At the time, the then State Council Skei Grande, but also the representative Grunde Almeland, who was in the committee at the time, said that the government would have an investigation – an investigation for prohibition. Now, in answer to written questions, the Council of State tells me that they are still investigating the need to ban conversion therapy. That is why my question is: is it still the government's policy to investigate for a ban, or is it to investigate the need for a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e856	The representative was inside the Left's view, so let me say this as the Left's Viceleader: The Left's view of conversion therapy is brilliant – it's morally and ethically unacceptable. I want to go so far as to say that some of the examples we've seen are reprehensible. On the part of the government, it's about a legal investigation. What is legally right to do within the provisions of the Constitution? What is legally correct and possible to do within human rights obligations, to which Norway is also obliged? That's this investigation we have to do, because if we could just say where we stand morally and ethically, we could have gone wrong with farms. So I think the representative must bring this into Christmas, that the Left's view of conversion therapy is completely firm, it's in line with what both Grunde Almeland, Ketil Kjeseth and Trine Skei Grande have said. That's what I've been saying. So this has to be investigated legally, and then we have to look at what kind of space we have. When that investigation is completed, the government will make its views known in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e863	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e868	We're on the eighth year of right-wing rule now. Ministers and parties have come and gone, but one has always and consistently pursued a policy that increases the differences between people. The richest have received more every year, with less. There have been greater differences between those who are in and those who are out of work, more are out of work, and there are several poor kids today. We need a new course for Norway. The Labour Party will reduce these differences, build a stronger welfare state, engage in social fair distribution, get more in work, do more for those who have the least, and for those who are most vulnerable. It is also recognizable in our alternative budget this year. We want to strengthen child protection, have cheaper kindergartens, have free SFO in the first year, strengthen the community's inclusive solutions instead of pursuing indulgence policies, as this government does. The Korona crisis puts a magnifying glass on the differences in our society, on how bad the most vulnerable of us are through the crisis, our most vulnerable kids, and also on the consequences of our having a long way to achieve equality. The Council of State said in its speech that it is important to look at the coronary crisis with the sexual glasses on. Yes, it is absolutely necessary, for the results of increased unemployment and closed communities often hit women and vulnerable young people hardest. It is the ladies who have now dragged us through the most intense phases of this crisis. It's the people on the front line of health care, who have kept the grocery stores up, who provide cleaning, who expose themselves to the risk of infection, who do the job, so that we can live safely and be protected. These ladies have been given rosy words in festive speeches and many applause from many a balcony for the past six months, but we had hoped that the celebrations of those who actually govern the country were not made by this government. We had hoped that the right-hand side too would now have got their eyes up on the value of the job that these women do every day, because these women deserve a more decent working life, a work environment law that takes into account the pressure they face, a salary to live on, whole, permanent jobs and retirement from the first crown. It cannot continue to be that our main employees are the ones who have to work hard for at least, because this is all, all of them, the most important issue of equality. As a temporary employee or part-time worker, you are not economically free. Wake up with the temporary, away with the rent, away with the part-time, in with the whole, fixed positions, the pension from the first crown. It is therefore sad that the government will not join in and reward the efforts of the important ladies with the policies needed to give them a slightly freer life. It is not surprising, however, because we are now in the eighth year with a right-wing government that has not taken a single initiative to increase and strengthen equality in this country. On the contrary, what they have done in their gender equality accounts has been to cut or eliminate important schemes that have made Norway one of the world's most equalised countries. It also appears in the year’s budget – standstill or real cut. At the same time as the Corona crisis puts the magnifying glass on those women who work under almost unworthy conditions, on increasing violence in close relationships, on young people who do not have it safe because they have to be at home, billions of dollars are given to cheaper snuffs and spirits, but not a single additional crown to equality, child protection or vulnerable young people – or to measures that had given our most valuable ladies a decent working life. They need less talk, they need less clapping, they need action and politics. The working party will have a more orderly working life, less temporaryity, less rent, full, permanent jobs, a pension from the first crown and a salary to live on. It's becoming and becoming the most important issue of equality. That's our promise, but to make it happen, we need a government shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e888	Everyone should have equal opportunities and rights no matter who they are, and where they come from. Right considers respect, equivalency and inclusion to be important for everyone to be able to participate in society on equal terms. In Norway we have come a long way with equality, and we have been ranked one of the world's most equal countries for three consecutive years. But we also have some challenges, and maybe many of them become especially obvious during the Corona era. In particular, the Right wants to focus on economic equality, which we believe is about freedom of choice, the ability to make free choices, and the freedom to decide on your own savings, everyday life, education, work and time. The pay gap between men and women has decreased, and now women working full-time serve, 89 pst. of what men serve. It's a improvement. The difference between what women and men serve affects what opportunities and choices you have. Furthermore, we see that the gap between women and men is even greater. They own 80 pst. of the values of Oslo Børs and get 80 pst. of the dividends. So women have lower income and own a smaller part of their private wealth. I believe that this bias also affects power, and therefore economic equality is very important to the Right. As a result, private economy has now become part of the school's professional renewal, while a large number of private actors have taken action to market financial products also against women. Hopefully we can see a improvement in this in a few years. Our boys fall behind in school and top negative statistics, like suicide statistics. Women are 70 pst. more morbid than men and more likely to be subjected to violence and abuse. 150 000 people experience violence in close relationships every year, and two thirds of them are women. One in ten women experience rape during life, and half of them experience it before they turn 18, but only 10 pst. Reporter raped. We have huge challenges in gender equality where we need to take important and big steps, and right-wing jobs in order for women's right to live free lives to be lifted high on the agenda. To contribute to economic equality, the Right has amended the Working Environment Act to ensure equal pay and full-time jobs. It's about helping women make conscious choices. Campaigns by DNB's #huninvestor have shown that it works to raise awareness. By raising awareness of long-term savings among women, they experienced for the first time in history that there were more new female fund buyers than male. Several campaigns of this kind I think will reduce this capital gap over time. The right has also worked for better measures for women’s health. Large-scale female diseases have gained a greater share of the package trajectory. Package trajectories are a standardised and seamless handling of patients, where diagnosis, treatment and follow-up must flow without delay and where responsibility for follow-up is located. Packing processes have been introduced for cancer and for anorexia among children and young people, and a package process for muscle and skeletal disorders, pain, fatigue and ADHD is under way. The right-hand side is different from the opposition, because we want to release all the good forces to health and care. We pride ourselves on women entrepreneurs who want to start hospitals and develop welfare technology. The opposition does not want this foundation within typical women's churches, and the Workers' Party is in a great fight against private operators of health and care services. We believe this is an attack on women's opportunities. The right will have more use of alternative rotational arrangements so that a nurse can get a more flexible and predictable everyday life. Flexible tour arrangements can contribute to increased job breaks, reduce sick leave and increase the well-being of residents, and the Right has also given part-time employees the right to full-time jobs. The opposition promises more full-time jobs but is not willing to adapt to the workforce. In Bergen, the Labour Party Town Council removed alternative rotational arrangements when they took over power, despite the satisfaction of users and relatives, and the satisfaction of the employees with their working day. It is worth working, which is why we have opened up more local negotiations. We see that it gives more flexible tours, among other things. in the health and care sector. There are many measures that we have taken for women, which I wanted to take up in my post, but unfortunately there was no time for it. That is why I would also like to refer to the comments on the Right in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e913	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e918	One of the strongest TV images we've seen in recent times is from the tsunami in Southeast Asia where we saw that the water first disappeared, and that the kids for the outside and picked shells and rocks from what was previously under water. Then comes the many meters high wall of water from the sea, and what do we see the parents do? Well, they're jumping out because they're going to rock their kids -- in the middle of the flood of water that took many, many thousand lives. There's nothing more important to us than how our kids are doing. The most important thing in life should be the policy. Unfortunately, however, when the government parties and the Progress Party settle budgets, it is not the young that are most important. The representative from the Progress Party said earlier that I had not read the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party. Now, fortunately, it is very detailed on pages 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the budgetary position that we are now discussing, where there is a separate column of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party that has been created in conjunction with the Advance Party. There are no priorities. When you look at the budgetary agreement and look for the letters BFD, which are the abbreviation of this department, there are no additions. It's a $10 million cut. kr to church buildings, but there are no bets. Then there have been some re-priorities in the committee, but when these managers set and negotiated, this was not a priority area. It's interesting that the Progress Party doesn't elaborate any more that once they get out of the government, they've got the freedom back, they push through 12 billion. kr in changes, they may, for example: are not able to achieve a lift for the protection of children. With the Workers' Party you could get hundreds of millions more for child protection, for the most vulnerable, for those who need it, for those who really in this wealthiest society in the world it's hurting and hard. You could get money for BUA schemes, which means that kids who are outside the leisure activities that other kids get into were actually included. They got involved, they got together, they got together. But it is unfortunately not this area that is prioritised. It's like we talked about earlier, cheaper chocolate, cheaper snuff, cheaper alcohol. Well and well, nice to get a few dollars in your wallet, but is that what we as parents, we as society, we as common feel that the kids need the most? No, the kids need security. They need community. They need a safe growth, and they need a government shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e927	All children in Norway shall have the same opportunities and the same freedom to create their own future. Ensuring everyone's opportunity is therefore the goal of the government. And the children are the most important thing, as Gieske said, and it is also clearly reflected in government policy in several departments. In October, the government presented a cooperative strategy to promote participation and strengthen the possibility for children in low-income families. The strategy addresses measures that provide children with the same opportunities as their peers to undertake education, to enjoy good and safe housing, to participate in organised leisure activities and to gain better access to health services. Much good work is done as a result of national grant schemes to include children and young people. This arrangement was worth about 100 million. kr in 2014 and is now more than tripled. Much of the good work is done by non-governmental organisations in cooperation with countries, municipalities and businesses. Let me draw up the Barnas Station, which the Blue Cross operates as an offer to families with children up to 12 years of age in vulnerable situations, often related to low-income challenges, mental health and drug abuse. This autumn I visited their offers both in Fredrikstad and at Grünerløkka here in Oslo. There were strong human meetings that you don't forget. Hard and tough lives have gained hope and structure through the support they have received. It's about being seen, and it's about being valued. The Blue Cross wishes to establish several branches of the Barnas Station around the country, and the Government Parties and the Advance Party ask in a note that this may be taken into account when examining future applications from the organisation. Growing debt and lack of an overview of their own economy can be the first step towards economic ruin for many. It is therefore gratifying to see that the volume of consumption loans has fallen significantly since the introduction of the debt registers on 1 July last year. The banks just point to the debt registers as the main cause of the decline. The banks, and not least consumers, are given a better overview of their own economy. The size has previously asked the government to consider extending the debt registers to all liabilities. The government has announced an evaluation in 2021, and the government parties are asking for an assessment to extend the registers to cover just all liabilities, to include the public finance platform in the legislation and to allow consumers to consent to banks display indebtedness information in consumers’ online banks. The most important factor in ensuring that fewer children grow up in families with persistent low incomes is helping as much as possible into the labour market and helping to master their own economy as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e942	The Labour Party believes that more research, improved treatment provision and increased knowledge of women’s health is needed both in health professionals and among women themselves. Two examples of this are heart disease and the sub-life diagnosis of endometriosis. Cardiovascular disease is clearly the most common cause of death in women. The interesting thing here is that there has been, and still is, a lack of knowledge about women's hearts and how heart disease is occurring differently in women and men. While for men there are mostly dense arteries leading to heart attacks, and radiation out into the left arm is a common symptom, women have both more diffuse symptoms and more often unknown cause of heart attack. In addition, heart medicine is more commonly developed for younger men. It's a paradox that we're moving towards the development of more and more personalized medicine for more diagnosis, while in heart therapy it's not even gender-adapted. Endometriosis and adenomyosis are among the most common female diseases. They are often referred to as sibling diagnosis and are very widespread. You're assuming about 10 pst. by Norwegian women have endometriosis and that 15-20 pst. has adenomyosis. It's different severity. For some, the disease may be transitory; for others, however, it may be associated with severe pain, severe bleeding and involuntary childlessness. Nevertheless, endometriosis is often referred to as an unknown disease and, according to the Endometriosis Association, it takes an average of seven years before women are diagnosed. How have we ended up there – that a disease that causes great pain and stops the dream of children for many women can be both unknown and common at the same time? The further road is divided by two. Through more funding for research, the creation of, for example, headache centres and a women’s health portal, the Workers’ Party will ensure that knowledge and competence on women’s health are increased in the population and among doctors and other health professionals. These are proposals we are promoting in the health debate, but I am still making some contributions to this debate because these are important issues of equality. Migrants and chronic headaches lead to over two million days of absence from work and school each year. Women are hit twice as often as men, and many experience both de minimis and lack of knowledge by health professionals and employers. Many of the suffering women suffer is still very taboo, which can make interest policy work demanding. Extreme bleeding, childlessness, spontaneous abortion or the pain of intercourse – these are common female plagues that are almost not discussed. In order to build knowledge, we also need to break the taboos that are associated with many of the female health problems, and maybe this post can help to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e955	Norway is much richer now than before. No government has had as much money at its disposal as this government. However, more and more children need to grow up in poor families. This is the correct context. Yes, everyone has given a little bit more, but the differences are increasing. The representative Haukland from the Right was up talking about differences in pay and wealth. Yeah, that's it. She is quite right in the description – what do you do to reduce those differences? Well, then the government gives massive tax credits to those with high wealth and high incomes. Then the differences are increasing even more between women and men. Then to the poor children. Yes, it's true that the Christian People's Party has had a little bit of increased child-responsiveness for the smallest children, but they haven't managed to defend the poorest children. Now I have heard many strange explanations here that it is bureaucracy and that it is difficult and it must be municipal freedom etc. With shame to report – it's just customs. Here you can make a regulation, and you can change the law that says you should ignore this when measuring social assistance. Everyone else gets this child's pension on top of their income, on top of their wealth – it doesn't matter how much they have. It's just the poorest people who don't get, and I've asked the government again this year, how much do you expect these families of children to lose? I think the Christian People's Party should notice that, because it's their own government that has black, and it's almost half a billion. It's almost half a billion that you take from the poorest children's families systematically every year. There are targeted policies to increase poverty, and that is what this government is doing – targeted policies to increase the income of those who are rich, targeted policies with a lot of petty, unsocial cuts. The housing stock was mentioned. Yes, there I also have answers from the government – no, there are 30 000 fewer people who get housing support now than eight to ten years ago, and we have become many more. Those who receive receive less of their living costs, and the income of these groups has actually fallen. They're going to be essentially negative, even those that get. Nevertheless, the government continues to tell this story that they've got more. So this is not true. And it would have been possible in the reconciliation to do something else. So that's 7.4 billion. kr on cheaper snuff and alcohol – signed by the Christian People’s Party. It's a value choice. It's a deep disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e968	This is a budget for inclusion and participation, and this is a budget to be set aside for exclusion. Nobody is interested in the leisure card, said the representative Henriksen. Now there are 184 municipalities that have applied to participate in the scheme to try out a leisure card, and a lot of those municipalities are run by the Workers' Party. I guess I didn't get a response to my reply, whether the Workers' Party will stop this scheme and take away the children who are now getting the funds to choose their own activity, that opportunity. The Workers' Party launched what they called a leisure reform in 2019. In that case, activities were to be included in the school leisure scheme — or AKS — with municipal employees, paid trainers. There was a lot of emphasis on sports, it's good and good. We also see in the comments on the Labour Party in the budget that sport has been highlighted. But what we're concerned about is that children have to choose their own activity, whether they're corps, spears, dance, music or other cultural activities, that's much wider than sports. It is the child himself who is to be chosen, the country should not choose for the child. The leisure card scheme is modelled from Iceland, it is possible to implement. I do not understand the argument that this is bureaucratic, on the contrary, it should be unbureaucratic. It takes some time to get technological solutions, as it does in all areas of the country, but once they're there, it's easy to get involved. We want children to have equal opportunities, and not only do you get that by having a good Norwegian school, you also get that by having the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. More and more are organized, much more than it was before. That's why it's important to reach those that might be farthest away. Then I believe that the arrangement to let each child decide – get an app or what it might be to participate – is the best, because it will apply to all children. So there's been a lot of talk about poverty. We know that for first-generation immigrants it takes longer to get into work. As I mentioned earlier, Stoltenberg has also said that you had to do more and not least see if you should have a larger inclusion dew.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e983	When the representative Giske says that there are no priorities in this budget that reflect the BFD – then I assume he means children and family – he could not have actually been removed from the truth. In fact, there are so many priorities that unfortunately I can't mention them in a three-minute post. But what is at least certain is that since 2013, the Christian People's Party has been fighting in every budgetary round and ensuring that the one-time benefit of those who are waiting for children, but do not have the right to parental leave, has almost tripled. In the government we have increased child benefit for the third time in two years, and we have secured the cash support. We do this because we have faith in building strong families, where parents and children get time together, and where they are allowed to shape the everyday life that suits them best. This would not have been the case if the left hand side had put a hand on the steering wheel of the family policy in our country, and as a result, there is a difference in the view of the families themselves. Where the Christian People's Party has faith in their parents and confidence that they know what is best for their children, who believe the Workers' Party that the state knows best. This distrust and the desire for over-management is very clear in the Labour Party's draft budget, and also in the speeches that have been held here today. It's sad, but the left-hand side is more concerned with pushing through its own ideology of equality and workline than listening to families. The result is the very unpleasant coercive ‘one size fits all’, which is also a very immature approach to today’s families, which come in all sizes and shapes. The left side will control family choices because they do not trust that parents can make the right choices for their children. Every family needs their own tailor-made solutions, but it doesn't want to understand the Workers' Party. Sarah Sørheim, who defines herself on the left side of Norwegian politics, said it so well in the Evening Pod a little while ago: I don't believe in the individual's ability to make good choices for himself. It's an honest confession from a politically conscious woman on the left. Increased child welfare and one-off welfare are not only good family policies; it is also very accurate schemes that take care of the families who have the least of them. And this is only 2 out of 65 measures that form part of the government's cooperation strategy for children and young people in low-income families. I also think it is very special of Karin Andersen, who so boldly stood here instead, to dry to criticise the Christian People's Party for the arrangement in the increase of child welfare, when they never managed to prioritize a single crown in the increase of child welfare when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e996	I think there are a lot of people who in the last year have had to taste the word culture in a little new way. For what is culture about not a product of freedom and community – the two words that for most of us have been a haven of the year we now go out of? Quite rightly, the government has been generous with both compensation and incentive schemes, but no arrangements are good enough to replace the efforts made by cultural workers across the country to keep the wheels running in these months. Of course, the Minister of Culture has been a target, as cultural ministers all over Europe have been. It was just supposed to be missing. For thousands of children and adults who for short or longer periods have had to put their creativity and creativity to work, it is fully understandable that disappointment is directed to the country's top management. Therefore, it has been absolutely essential that cultural life has been met with understanding, optimism and generosity. I am glad that the Minister of Culture has these core values in the political ideology of the Left so incorporated into both the way of life and in his general approach to the job. I am also pleased that this year the government presented a communication on the cultural environment in which it outlines an ambitious national and global policy in the field of the cultural environment. The Environmental Action Communication follows up the Granavolden Platform, where the government determines that it will further develop mechanisms that motivate both tangible and intangible cultural heritage conservation and provide new findings to enable future generations to enjoy important cultural memories and environments. The objective of the Left is to see the cultural environment in conjunction with and as an integral part of the other climate and environmental management. Children’s and young people’s culture, talent initiatives have increased, the dance field has been strengthened, financial support has been given to Bodø as the European Capital of Culture in 2024, and the government has strengthened its commitment to measures that strengthen the economic sustainability of the arts and culture sector, culture as a industry and entrepreneurship. There has been an escalation of the investment in computer games, a language law is on the stairs, we have increased funds for national cultural buildings. Finnskogen's house, Norsk Bergverksmuseum and the heavy watershell on Vemork are just a few key points for the government's commitment to culture like tourism and food. Resources have been allocated to test facilities and workshops for the National Scene and for the maintenance of Ole Bull's villa on the Lysøen, and Theater Ibsen is building a long-awaited test room. We have received a new grant scheme for the work against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions, and we have strengthened the grant scheme for the LHBTIQ organisations. All of this helps to underpin the government's objectives of more cultural activity in an equal and diverse society. In a later article, I would like to mention the gift-enhancing scheme, which is another successful step in the government's cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1009	It's just to record that there's a pretty big difference between the equality measures that SV fights for, and what this right-wing government calls equality measures. Because it is clearly not to introduce full-time rights, it is clearly not to strengthen the work of the Equality Ombudsman against pay discrimination in each activity, and it is not to do any redeployment of the tax system for the benefit of women. No, from today's pulpit we hear, among other things. private marketing of financial products to women — yes, well — and not least, it seems that the most important equality measure for the Right is allowing international purchasing funds to benefit from child protection and other welfare services. So you point to women entrepreneurs. First of all, we know that that's not true. Now we just got a new report showing that 60 pst. of the revenues in the field of child protection among the private sector are included in foreign groups. There are almost no single Norwegian companies operating child protection, i.e. women entrepreneurs. It's gone down, it's gone down. The more important is the question of who pays the price of wealth in welfare — yes, of course, apart from the children and the elderly, who depend on the offer. Who pays the price? Well, it's the employees through poorer retirement, through poorer manning, through poorer wages, we've also seen. And who are the employees of child protection, health care and kindergartens? Well, to a very large extent, there are women. The commercialisation of our welfare state, market alignment and profit are affecting women. That is why, in fact, profit-free well-being is one of the most important things we can have to ensure better working conditions for women in our welfare. I asked Councillor Raja about the conversion therapy ban. Then I just want to be quite clear on one thing: former state councillor Trine Skei Grande said on behalf of the government that they went for an investigation with a view to banning. Current State Council, Abid Q. Raja, does not say this – he says that the need for a ban should be investigated. Then it's just to record that the government has changed the policy. It's not the Party Left's view of the matter we're asking for, it's the government's view. There's been a change, and that's regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1022	This government's gender equality policy is comprehensive and broad, and it didn't last 5 minutes to come up with the problem description that this government wants to solve. I think it's interesting to hear SV's perspective on this government's equality policy. It couldn't have been any longer from the truth and what is real. I feel that we have other solutions to the challenges that I believe the equality field is well served. We are also concerned about the entire position. That is why we want more local negotiations in the labour market and see that this leads to a greater number of jobs. We also want to open up more flexible tours, because in many of the professions where you do not get the entire jobs, there is a need for flexible tournaments, just to ensure that you can have more jobs in order to increase the number of hours worked. We work for equal pay. It is statutory, there are monitoring requirements, and there are reporting requirements. Employees also have a greater right to know what other persons in the same company who have the same position serve when entering pay negotiations. Furthermore, we have a great many measures to work for equality and to ensure measures to strengthen women's right to participate in the labour market. We have cheaper kindergartens for low-income families. This is important in order to ensure that women, and especially women with a minority background, have an opening to enter the labour market. We have adopted a new common law on equality and discrimination, we are focusing on men in health, girls in technology, and we are looking at the challenges of a gender-divided working life with more eyes into several departments, just in order to tackle these challenges. We've targeted gender balance in state corporations and directorates, we're working to have gender-neutral titles. This government has put in place an action plan against negative social control precisely because we see it in other parts of society, where the gender challenges may be greater and more radical than in the majority population. We strengthen language training for minority women, we have strengthened the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, precisely because women and children and young people are the worst victims of violence and abuse. This government has launched six points for a better female health; we have introduced low-threshold measures to enforce the ban on sexual harassment. Just because working life is to be a safe and good venue for women, we choose to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1040	Sometimes I feel that speakers who are here to defend the budget act as executive directors in a consortium. They're talking about the children's ward -- there it goes like that and like that and with those and those numbers. They're talking about the gender equality department -- there we have them and those numbers and those and those measures. It seems that this government actually doesn't understand the reality they live in. Does it matter to the government that we have 111,000 children in permanent poverty, that we have 200,000 unemployed, that we have 364,000 disabled? With families, there are quite a number of people in this country – ordinary people – who experience cutbacks as a result of government budgets. Adelheid Hylmbsal, Secretary General of the Church's Bymition, was interviewed by TV 2. And do you know what she called this? She called it extreme poverty – extreme poverty – in Norway! And so we're talking about a government that delivers tax cuts to the richest on current bonds. Each financial year they may sail out of this hall with the highest profits in their own pockets. It is the reality in which people live in the other reality under this government. They give with one hand and take with the other, and then they talk the most about what they give, and very little about what they take. It is pointed out that the Workers' Party is a party that will govern the elections to people. It can no longer be from the truth. The policies of the Workers' Party and the policies of the Left are liberating movements – not oppressive movements. They set people free. And why do they do that? Well, because they create a policy that makes all people have equal opportunities. They don't create a policy that makes someone in some municipalities get a free-time card. No, it creates a policy that allows all children in Norway to have access to free leisure activities through, for example: The BUA scheme, or by introducing VAT compensation, which gives all non-governmental organisations equal money and equal opportunities. And this is a big difference between right-hand and left-hand policies in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1049	I think I'm going to have to repeat what is the truth: Norway has become much richer. The government spends a lot more oil money. They have much bigger budgets. In 2013, we spent 123 billion dollars. kr of the oil yield. This year it will be very much – it is an exceptional year, but in 2019 we spent 245.2 billion. NOK, so it must make sense to spend this money. And what do we do when we get so much richer and so many individuals also become so much richer? That's what we accuse the government and the Christian People's Party of, that in this reality you choose to increase the differences, because you have an ideological approach to, for example. the wealth tax which increases the difference between women and men, because it is the men who have the greatest wealth and the greatest income, as the representative from the Right was up here and said quite correctly. Yes, when you give tax relief on it, the differences increase. It's not very hard to understand. The second is that you systematically take away those that have the least. And if that's what we know, it's that bad health and bad advice are connected. When you don't have money so you know that you can pay rent and have food in the fridge, the cancers go to something other than getting on your legs. SV spends money on it. We think it's important, so that more people can actually get to work. That is why we are proposing in other budgets that they should, for example, be included in the budget. to complete competence in a performance, so that they can have a competence to get a job. That's right and good, that's good. So the government has spent a lot of money. They've used them wrong, and they haven't even been able to cover the small amounts of money so that they don't lose child welfare. I also hear that the Christian People's Party believes that this is a very good family policy. I think it's not, but if you're concerned about family policy, the Christian People's Party should soon start to take an interest in what's going on in foreign policy and in asylum and refugee policy. The party is involved in tightening up so that people don't get to be together as a family for many years, and you don't earn enough, you won't be allowed to be with your family at all. Then I would have asked myself to be taught about good family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1058	What characterises this government's gender equality account is that it has put equality in reverse. In eight years, no single equality policy initiative has been launched by this government with the aim of increasing equality between women and men in Norway — not a single one. When the representative Marianne Haukland read out a list earlier, the representative forgot to say that those measures were adopted and implemented because the opposition had a majority in favour of it. The opposition promoted those proposals and received a majority – against the will of the government – and has limped and dragged the right-wing government into equality policy, as we have done over time. When the Council of State can boast that the part-time share goes down a little bit, it's precisely because in the red-green government we introduced ten legislative changes with increased rights for full-time the year we had to leave the government. They start working after a while. Fortunately, the right-wing administration did not remove all those measures. They removed some, e.g. The fact that every year we had $30 million. kr in the state budget for local efforts to increase the full-time share in municipalities. It's a lie. Of the other things on the list of this government that the representative should mention, they have cut support for equality organisations in the budget over the years, cut off support from the Equality Ombudsman and equality centres, and have not proposed a single action against sexual harassment. They have weakened the equality law, and they have weakened the obligation of activity and presentation, which is perhaps the most important and effective instrument for increasing equality in the workplace. They've weakened the abortion law, cut the paper commission, increased the cash support and led an economic policy that gives the most to those who have the most wealth, but less to those who already have the least to go with – women in the typical women's prisons. When the Workers' Party talks about the need for increased economic equality, we talk about women's wives having to earn a living from, a working time to live with, security through permanent, full positions and a pension that is possible to live off when they leave. When the Right is talking about economic equality, we hear today that it's about them wanting private banks to push fund investment solutions on ladies. It says a little bit about the differences in world views between us in the Workers' Party and this government. No, now it's going to be the turn of ordinary people, and there are ordinary people who get the best out of it with the Workers' Party's alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1069	That concludes the first part of the debate. We then move on to the second part of the debate, which deals with the 3rd framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1076	For culture, volunteering and sport, 2020 has been a special year. The cultural actors have been particularly hard hit by the disease prevention measures aimed at curbing the coronary epidemic. They were the first to shut down and stop their activity, and they're probably also the last to resume their normal business. Many live with great uncertainty. Thanks to those who organize concerts, who have driven and run for half the machine under the prevailing circumstances. This is the most demanding part of the work. The government acted quickly in the crisis. Compensation schemes quickly arrived at Stortinget, and they came on a continuous bond. We shut down Norway on March 12. The first package came to Stortinget on 18 March. That included culture. With the different arrangements, from April 2020 to May 2021, there are more than 8 billion. kr on the Ministry of Culture's budget. It took time for us to meet all the needs of all the actors in cultural life. Many people in cultural life are freelancers and self-employed. The Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs offer different arrangements to the various actors. The main priorities of the budget in 2021 are precisely to contribute to the resumption of activity in the sector. It is in the budget for 2021 granted over 2 billion. And we don't see the end of this yet. It is culture, volunteering and sport that are given priority. The emphasis shall be on stimulating activity. Appropriations for museums, music and performing arts institutions will be increased by 200 million. kr. Similarly, it is proposed that the State's artist grant be increased by 200 million. kr to temporary grant schemes. This comes along well. The funding for the Kulturfondet and the Norwegian Film Institute has also been increased by corona funding, and more funds have been allocated to the purchase of art in our institutions. The state takes an extended responsibility for cultural life, and we do have some of the best arrangements in Europe. The majority of the Committee believes that we need a national free performing arts infrastructure. It becomes too vulnerable to free performing arts, ensembles and established companies only to have project support or to rely on local government or county support as the sole source of funding. There is a need for greater predictability. In this way, we look forward to the government working and coming up with a system to secure this infrastructure. It has also created noise that budget lines have moved from the Ministry of Culture to the administrative administration of the Council of Culture, and that some posts have moved internally within the Council of Culture, then from the Culture Fund to the administrative administration. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party propose that actions in the visual arts field, which was first taken from the Cultural Fund to administrative management, go back to the Cultural Fund. I think they'll be satisfied with that. For 2021, the aim of the sector is also to contribute to greater breadth and diversity in both cultural and cultural terms. The budget is devoted to talent development, and it is a pleasure that Talent Norway is supported. The cultural school bag receives increased appropriations, and not least art productions are to be targeted at children and young people. The survey looks forward to a child- and youth-cultural report. The budget also provides funds for national cultural buildings. I am pleased that the Norwegian Forest Finnish Museum is a priority, as is the Norwegian Mining Museum. It strengthens our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1096	The chairperson of the Committee gave a good and descriptive picture of how difficult this year has been for the cultural sector, but there has been a similar difficult year for volunteering, which is also covered by this budget area. In a year when we spent several hundred billion dollars helping organizations, institutions, workers and businesses through a crisis, our suggestion was that a simple and unbureaucratic way of helping volunteering was to speed up the introduction of full VAT compensation that this increase has actually adopted. I was delighted as Minister of Culture in 2009 to start that VAT compensation. That time it was estimated to be 1 billion. kr. Now we're higher. There has long been a demand from volunteering, a desire, for a predictable and regulated system. My question is why not the Right and the Government can be involved in this as a measure now, in a corona time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1101	Yes, the former minister is to be commended for having introduced the scheme, but it was probably not so much put into the scheme in the budget in 2013. We've increased the arrangement dramatically, and it's now in place what we've actually promised, 1.8 billion. kr in VAT compensation. So that's what we promised. We believe that this, in addition to the funds provided in compensation for the teams and the volunteering that are affected by the coronary crisis, will provide the support they need. So that's simply also a budgetary priority. I'm aware that you want a framework management on this, and then we'll see what the next budgets say, but at least I'll say there's a formidable increase that's happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1106	We're spending a lot of money in this crisis year, and we're going to keep doing it in 2021. At the latest in the budget agreement, many new oil billions were introduced into the budget. Then the question is whether you – even if you say in principle that we should wait for this for four years, we should have a escalating etc. – in this unique voluntary situation, VAT compensation could be used as a handshake for all those who provide incredibly important help to those affected by the coronary crisis. So even if you're basically against rule management, or if you think it's going to be phased in over the year, the question is, why not use this as a crisis response as well? Then I have an additional question, and it's, on volunteer centres, we've fought a hard fight to keep the earmarked grant. We have won it for 2021, but it has announced a new review of this aid scheme. My question is: Will we keep an earmarked grant scheme under the Ministry of Culture, so that the volunteers can have predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1113	Yes, I'm very happy that we've still received earmarks, and especially in a demanding year when it's important, as the representative also says, to restrain about volunteering. What is announced is an evaluation of the scheme, and we must allow that to happen, even though we have still asked for a designation in the budget for 2021. Then there will be new budgets later. But we got it up to now, and it also happened in the budget for 2020, as the representative knows for sure, so that's what we're satisfied with. So I would also say, as mentioned in previous articles, that volunteering also benefits from the corona resources given to the municipalities. This applies to sports teams, corps, flea markets, etc., so that some of the revenue there is also secured through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1120	I am concerned about what the Right thinks about the Korona support schemes and all the actors and organisers in our area that fall outside those schemes, such as. the event industry, which employs 5,000 people, and which provides livelihoods for approx. 30,000 freelancers, including a lot of cultural practitioners. They have a loss of income of about 90 p.m., and there are not exactly people in line to order conferences in 2021. What does the Right Representative think is the reason why when actors like the event industry repeatedly ask to be included in the arrangements, they do not hear? One of the reasons here is, among other things: that you do not want to open closed events. What should an industry that is so important to culture do when you're not being listened to on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1126	It's not just the event industry that has challenges at this time. There are many who contribute to what we call the great virtue, including the outdoor industry and the travel industry. This is an area that is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs' portfolio. It's, of course, as I mentioned in my article, a part that's about culture, nutrition and work and social. Now it's open for more arrangements just for the event industry, but they probably don't hit as well as it was supposed to, so we just have to keep working on the arrangements that are, and get them to hit better.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1131	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1136	For eight years now, the right-wing government has been depriving the cultural sector and, with its cultural policy priorities, has been helping to increase the differences between cities and communities in cultural services. For most of the budgets, stagnation has meant real cutbacks. One has simply prioritised quite other things, such as tax cuts to those who already have the most of them. This year, when the Korona crisis engulfed us, showed with full strength how vulnerable and vulnerable the cultural sector is. Our cultural people were the first to have to go home from work when the country shut down. The halls had to be emptied, the scenes had to be closed in a few hours' notice, and they are the last ones that are going to be able to go back to work. The crisis shows how vulnerable a self-employed worker is, as a freelancer, and it shows how little money there is in the cultural sector. It is therefore sad that the government's crisis packages came late, had too many holes and are too short-term. Many cultural workers attend a little pleasant Christmas. They don't know how long they have to expect to get the sharp crisis support they get, and a lot of people haven't received a penny yet. Many have nothing to live on, but we know that the crisis will last. The crisis aid must also be improved, but it must also be extended for as long as the crisis lasts. Crisis response to the crisis is over, and better and more effective mechanisms need to be put in place. If you cancel out the sums of the crisis support schemes in this budget, it's a very boisterous budget – flat this year again, the year when we had really had to pump up the activity, create more jobs for those who are working to give us good experiences, and also give us more good experiences through what most of us have been a very sad year. But no, what cultural life gets is stamina, which also within the year's budget for some items means real cut. The workplaces in the cultural sector and in the service and outdoors are clearly not important for the government. Other industries get what they want, while the people of culture now lose their jobs. The serving points and bars go bankrupt without the government lifting a finger. It is extremely provocative to know that this government is more concerned with logging for the big capital, and that quarantine rules can be changed via SMS, which has made many cities and places shut down again, and that people lose their jobs. The Workers' Party is focusing on culture. Also this year we have one billion more to culture and volunteer than the government. We're betting on the well-known schemes that come quickly, that deliver results quickly, that would create more activity and work in cultural life, make it easier for volunteering and sport and get more involved, and we need that at this time. Full VAT compensation is the most important requirement of all the actors we are talking about today. We'll give it to them. Differences are increasing, and more and more young people cannot afford to participate. That's why one of the main initiatives in our budget is just to get more: more equipment libraries, so that everyone across the country can borrow equipment for leisure activities and not be left because they can't afford it. We strengthen the artistic economy because the artists and cultural workers are important workers who need jobs, decent wages and better working conditions. We strengthen the Cultural Fund, and we focus on culture throughout the country with regional funds, because you need to have good cultural experiences regardless of where you live. In this year's budget, there's also a lot of mess. The government is rotating it with the arm's length principle as they move entries back and forth between the budget and the Council of Culture. We're against that. In addition, many of us put coffee in the throat when we read that the unpopular regional reform announced by the Council of State is still not canceled, because one of the driest proposals was to wind up the so-called distribution keys, i.e. the agreement that made the regional theatres, the regional operas, regional cultural institutions secure permanent funding from the state budget. This is mentioned in the budget as if it were going to go away. I wonder, who has actually written this budget? It is strange that there are things in the budget that the Council of State has promised not to happen, and that the government parties obviously have not got along, because two days after the budget was presented, they went out and said no, this was not going to happen. It's winged, and if there's something cultural life doesn't need now, there's more uncertainty, more winging. They deserve support, security and a promise to bet on. That's what the Workers' Party will give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1171	The Corona has marked the year and will shape large parts of the coming year. Therefore, several compensation schemes have been developed by the government. As has been mentioned, it has used 5.5 billion so far this year. kr, with a planned use of SEK 2,5 billion. kr to next year – in 15 months, 8 billion. kr. In addition, financial, industry and Nav schemes are expected to reach at least 10 billion. kr of 15 months. Despite the characteristics of the Trettebergstien such as ‘cent’, ‘holes’ and ‘short-term’, obviously some have to hit. No other country in the world is in the vicinity of compensating for culture, sport and volunteering at this level, despite much more severe closures. The representative is still out with statements such as ‘The Minister for Culture is acting passively. I'm worried that Abid Raja doesn't go out and calm cultural life» – and I could choose many others. Does the representative really think that the government has not prepared for the sector for which we are responsible, and how would the Labour Party solve this in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1180	Yes, the representative could probably find more quotes, because I have been seriously concerned since the pandemic rolled over us in March, after seeing that the cultural sector has come in second row, that cultural workers and the jobs across the country that may suffer most from the pandemic, people who cannot go back to work until the crisis is over, and who live by gathering people, are not being listened to. The crisis packages came too late, they have too big holes, and there are too many that are not taken by them. It helps very little those who work in Oslo Kru, who are not taken by the incentive schemes, who want a compensation scheme that they don't get and who don't have wages to live on for Christmas, or those who work at the Parktheater, who are still waiting for the money they applied for in May, that the right-wing government is standing here in the hall and boasts that Norway, in sum, is the country that spends most on culture through this crisis. They just have to admit that there is too much political craft done, and that the arrangements are not well designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1187	As my colleague Pettersen tried to clarify with his question, it seems to me that no matter how many billions were put on the table, the Trettebergstuen would come up with that very description of the government's work. She is early and lengthy with criticism – even though we feel that we have a government that has largely chosen to face cultural life in this very difficult situation. In the state budget, the Workers' Party has one billion more to culture, but does not choose to support the gift-enhancing scheme, which helps to ensure that more private individuals can also participate and contribute to cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1194	I can start with the last one. No, the Workers' Party will not have the gift-enhancing scheme, because there is a system that helps to increase the differences between cities and towns in the provision of culture. There's a system that makes the big cities get a lot, while the small places get little or nothing. And it's not the gift-enhancing system that makes it possible for people to give to culture, you can do as much as you want, and so do we, but we're against an ever-increasing proportion of the cultural budget following private money into the popular cultural institutions, which are already getting the most. There is a poor use of money, and there are increasing differences in cultural provision between cities and countries. When it comes to the crisis support schemes, I would have been happy, I, if the crisis packages came earlier, if you included the subcontractors, if you didn't cut off the arrangements you had put in place after all, and if you were able to create a compensation scheme that actually makes cultural life, serving and staying away from life cover their costs. Too many people get nothing today. That's why I recommend the right-wing government to talk to these people instead of knocking on the chest here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1201	The previous replicant asked questions about the gift enhancement scheme, and I want to follow it up, for this is a scheme that rewards cultural life and the actors who are on and work in a good and offensive way to get private contributions. Since 2014, several hundred million dollars have been paid from the state to reward that effort. I therefore wonder what the representative of the Workers' Party has to say to those institutions that have worked hard and benefited from the reward schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1206	The representative is mistaken. The gift-enhancing system is not a scheme that rewards those who work evenly and hard to get private money. It's not that. The gift-enhancing system provides a sum of government money every time a private gives to cultural life. So it's not the efforts of the institutions it's on here. And we see that the result of the gift enhancement scheme and how it hits is that, for example. The Agder counties have received NOK 900,000 in gift enhancement while Oslo has received SEK 20 million. kr. If we were to follow the logic of Gulati, is it then that Finnmark, Troms, Inland and Agder, those who may not have the big institutions, work badly, and not evenly, trying to get private money, or is it perhaps that when you look at how the market works, it is that the private would prefer to donate money to the big institutions that are already popular? That's why we're against it, because it's about giving a pot of money in the government budget that increases the differences between the institutions. We'd rather use it on something else. And in general, we also have a better economy for the theatres and museums.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1215	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1221	When we talk about cultural policy and the cultural sector, there is often a debate about government subsidies and about those financed by taxpayers' money. However, the cultural sector is much more than this. The cultural industry is a major industry that generates tens of thousands of jobs throughout Norway, large values and not least activity in the districts, and is also linked to and part of other important industries such as: travel and tourism. The cultural sector and the cultural industry are often what we live for, not just what we live for. Large parts of the culture industry have nothing to do with public funding, and I would like to give such an example: Circus Agora and Jan-Ketil Smørdal, who for nearly 30 years has been running without government grants – some of the many heroes of Norwegian culture that create joy and cultural experiences for people across the country. But this year and this crisis we are now in has become too tough even for many such actors. The constraints on the audience and the restrictions on the ability to gather have made it possible for even those actors who have been running for a long, long time without the need or desire for government grants to have needed help to get through and survive this crisis. Therefore, some of the most important elements of this budget are the mechanisms to help cultural industries, businesses and other jobs get through the crisis so that we also have a good cultural life and strong cultural enterprises after the crisis. One of these schemes that has been very important for the Progress Party is the compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers. This Progress Party has negotiated on several occasions that it should be extended – first out of the year and now until March – it is an important mechanism that we are pleased that is now also extended in the budget agreement. But it's not just this scheme that's important. The incentive package is also an important scheme, where billions of dollars are to be spent trying to normalize the level of activity within culture, volunteering and sport. These mechanisms are absolutely necessary when looking at the consequences of the pandemic measures given by restrictions on the ability to bring together both those who create culture and those who want to enjoy and also create an economy for culture. The Progress Party also represents the alternative thinking in Norwegian cultural policy. Instead of an overbidden policy, we focus on discussions about device, and we want an increased public and business focus in cultural policy. This applies, inter alia, to: in the media support field, in the case of artists' scholarships and in a number of other areas. We have agreed with the government on a budget where we have had a lot of good implementation, but we have also made our primary position and our desire for a different arrangement of large parts of the cultural budget visible in the budgetary procedure. I will nevertheless bring forward some of the things we are very happy to have reached an agreement with the government parties on, among other things. an increased focus on the film-incentive scheme, which we believe provides good value creation and activity across the country, not least in the districts. In a majority comment, we ask the government to use part of the incentive package just to increase the allocation of this scheme. We also welcome the focus on highlighting the history of war for future generations' information, among others. with allocation to the Heavy Water Sclerk and also other important appropriations. We are also pleased with the focus on the sailors. It is about education and culture and it also has a historical perspective. Much of that cultural debate has been about this year, has been other than money, frameworks and allocations. This can be seen within volunteering, sport and not least the grassroots, where it was not primarily the money, but the restrictions of the corona epidemic gave, which created a popular commitment and also a desire from the grassroots in these movements to allow as normal an activity as possible within a safe framework of infectious diseases. It is going to be the big challenge in the coming months too, so although the appropriations are important — and we are following them — it is also important that we open up as much normal activity as possible in the context of vector safe frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1242	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1247	If you read the Advance Party's alternative budget, party program and then listen to the representative Gulati's contributions, it's clear that the Advance Party would ideally just clean away all the culture that doesn't pay off and that's not popular enough to raise money itself. So it testifies to a party of progress that doesn't understand how the art and culture sectors relate, that most of the culture will never pay off. That's why we have arrangements that make it possible to have diverse art and culture that hits everyone, no matter what we like ourselves, including. the timing of work that allows artists within all possible genres to receive a small scholarship, a sharp wage to live a couple of years to produce art. The representative has his budget, where they cut 2 billion. kr for culture – nothing less – among others. Nearly half a billion to artists' scholarships, said that artists' tips help to make artists passive. Can the representative clarify what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1252	As I said in my speech, the Progress Party stands for alternative thinking in cultural policy, including the way in which the instruments and subsidies are set up. We've been concerned that the grants you have are going to have an intention of increasing activity, whether it's the gift-enhancing scheme, which we just talked about, the film-incentive scheme or other schemes. What we've been critical of in terms of the artist tips is that there's a system that we think is less related to how much you create, but can act as a passivating force by the fact that there are scholarships without the obvious requirements and incentives that we want in the cultural sector schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1257	I feel that the Progress Party is committed to supporting cultural actions that can finance themselves. That's what you're talking about. However, there are a number of measures, concrete cultural items, institutions and actors, which are proposed to receive direct support from the Progress Party in the budget. So I experience some kind of inconsistency – not insolvency, but inconsistency – given that, on the one hand, you have some sort of ideological approach to how we're going to defeat the fact that we support a lot of culture in the country, and yet you choose for the Progress Party to support exactly what you like. Could the representative explain why? This is actually a little bit inconsistent for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1262	I would like to thank the representative for a good question. The Party's approach to cultural policy, as well as to grants, has been that we want to focus on, among other things. children and young people, districts, what has to do with cultural history and education, while we have been critical of increasing government funding to more central institutions and also to certain types of schemes for reasons of principle, such as: The media support, where we propose a large cut. So even though there may seem somewhat inconsistent and there may also be some random results, our red line is that state and public cultural funding should target children and young people, cultural history and also spread across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1269	One thing is that the Progress Party doesn't appreciate everything we get back for the public crowns we grant for cultural offerings, both in things we can't measure in dollars and dollars, and also in economic ringing effects that are positive for the country. But what may be all the worse is that the Progress Party, even after over seven years of running the Ministry of Finance, has still not learned a responsible budgeting on behalf of all those who will be affected by what is decided in this Chamber. In particular, we are looking at the perhaps most violent and juicy cut proposed by the Progress Party in its alternative budget, namely 2 billion. kr – overnight – to NRK. So there are hundreds of people who are to be cancelled overnight, as a result of a decision in the Stortinget. It's a big business to hit, it's a popular business. What kind of accountability is there in budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1274	I want to start by correcting the representative on the first statement, because we greatly appreciate both the culture industry, the contribution you make, whether it's publicly or privately funded, and the ringing effects that it creates in society. With regard to the funding of the NRK, where it is absolutely right that we have made a different point of view visible, and where we also put a big cut, I think the representative should look at the rest of Medie-Norway. We have dozens of actors, if not more, competing in the same market as the NRK, on the same quality content, on the same audience, while the NRK has a completely different and protected competitive environment. While the rest of Medie-Norway this year has been in a crisis, the NRK has been shielded for almost all of this. We believe that the NRK must be able to deal with a little more of the same framework conditions and realities as the rest of Medie-Norway does every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1286	Culture, sport and voluntary activity bind people together in large and small communities. This gives great value to the individual and is fundamental to a functioning democracy. In our alternative budget proposal for 2021, we are proposing to increase the cultural budget by 630 million. kr more than the government. In addition, we have a number of other initiatives on volunteering, and not least we are proposing to increase the free revenues of municipalities by 3 billion. kr plus 2 additional billion for activity promotion, so that municipalities can give much more priority to local culture, sport and other voluntary activities. Extra important is to support this field now, as the coronary apex has hit it really hard. The consequences of the disease protection measures are very large. Concerts, festivals, theatre performances, film shows, events, local cultural events and extra sports events have been cancelled. Much training and activity in non-governmental organisations has also been either stopped or limited. Established meeting places, inactivity and cancelled cultural events characterise local communities. Tradition-rich Christmas concerts get the fewest to attend now, whether the church rooms are never so large and the benches never so empty, because of the government's strange rule that fixed chairs are so much better than fixed church benches infectious, which also limits people's ability to participate in Christmas services or to show someone they've lost, the last honour at the funeral. In an unpredictable period of time, the population needs authorities to reach out to find a proper balance between the protection of infection and its closure. This is not least what cultural life and volunteering need, and they need predictability. The government has provided several crisis packages with different schemes throughout the year — many to help, but often they have contributed to creating more uncertainty than tranquillity. Criticism has at times escalated in terms of both device, criteria, degree of compensation, duration and purpose. For parts of cultural life and volunteering have fallen completely outside. The government has, for example: delineated the compensation scheme for volunteering and sport to apply only to organisations with more than DKK 25000 in lost income and to those receiving at least 60 pst. in State grants, are outside both this scheme and the cultural compensation scheme. In reality, this means that large parts of grassroots activity are locally cut off from their losses. And not yet good ways have been found to include important actors such as rental companies or the event industry, which provide a lot of income for cultural life, rather for important organisers and meeting places in the community such as community houses and town halls. One way of replacing the losses of all voluntary teams and associations that are not allowed to participate in the aid schemes is to introduce the main requirements of voluntary activity for years, namely full VAT compensation for the purchase of goods and services by 2021. There's 350 million missing. kr for the purpose of satisfying the request. We in the Central Party have made a number of proposals that the VAT compensation scheme for voluntary activities should be set up and that 100 pst should be introduced. compensation. Unfortunately, we have not got through to it. But in our alternative budget, it is fully implemented, and we are increasing the scope for VAT compensation to non-governmental organisations with the above mentioned and necessary 350 million. kr. At the top of this, we're proposing $300 million. to continue the compensation scheme for culture and volunteering until July. We extend the arrangements to cover closed events, including: To save the event industry, and we reduce the rate of VAT from 12 to 6 p.p., which will make it more attractive to buy tickets, among other things. for sporting events, museums, concerts, etc. And then we're going to spend 740 million. kr to continue both the compensation scheme of 80 pst. and holiday pay for self-employed and freelancers until Christmas, which is extremely important for the majority of our artists and other cultural actors. The Coronapandemic has shown the importance of media both nationally and locally. Some media have been successful financially, while others have lost a lot of advertising revenue and had an economic break. It was only after a request decision in Stortinget that the government put in place a temporary compensation scheme for editor-directed media. In the examination of the scheme, the Central Party considered that the government’s proposal for a device would not meet the needs of the media companies when it was based only on market failures and not on advertising failures. Experience now shows that we were right, and that the scheme was poor, as only one third of the compensation funds have been paid. Now, in particular, the locals are struggling by up to 15 000 in circulation. It's dramatic for them and for those who are at risk of losing their jobs, but it's also dramatic for our media diversity. The Central Party therefore proposes a powerful media crisis package of well over 70 million. SEK, of which 30 million. kr has just been earmarked locally. We also propose additional funding for gender equality work and a major strengthening of the film field, of the Cultural Fund and of other cultural purposes around the country, and of course of the cultural memory field. The last thing I will come back to in a later article. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1306	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1311	The Central Party's alternative budget represents an increase in the use of oil money of 29 billion. kr – as much extra as the Working Party and Red when we add it together. The increase in the budget is partly done with what I want to define as monopoly money when they propose cut in red tape of 2.1 billion. Total kr, of which 56,5 million. kr shall be taken in the Ministry of Culture. 18.5 million. kr of these are again taken into the administration of the Norwegian Cultural Council, which may mean the closure of the offices of Trondheim and Bodø. It is the same Culture Council that in these days the case-treating applications came under the pandemic, and that ensures that the money comes out. I wonder what the Central Party thinks about their red tape of cultural life actually leading to a decline in culture's infrastructure, and that this is an alternative cultural budget that neither the districts nor the cities can enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1318	Thank you for the question. We in the Center Party have a position that we need to bring down the bureaucracy and also the consultancy around, based on, among other things. in the Riksrevision's criticism of how many consultants we use in the state. We have asked the Ministry of Finance how much, among other things. The Culture Council uses PR, communication and consulting activities. Then we've heard that it's $29 million. kr only in 2019. The sum that we take is not very large. The 29 million. In fact, it does not include fees for those who sit on boards, councils and boards, which are a very important part of the Council of Culture. So I believe that this cut is completely within what is proper.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1327	I was actually tempted today to ask the representative Sem-Jacobsen for an answer to what she thought about the success of the Progress Party to cut the border trade fees, because when we asked the party leader to the representative, it was just a laugh to be met. That might be a consequence of what you might call an insolvent budget from the Center Party. The representative mentioned that the Progress Party sometimes prioritises things that we are concerned about. Yeah, that's right. But sometimes the center part is actually also on that line. It actually happens sometimes that we're pretty much in agreement, for example. About Kveik beer. So I wonder if the Central Party representative can expand his ambitions to take care of this important cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1334	Now I was very excited about what the representative Hemdal was going to ask about, and that we ended up in Kveik beer and the yeast cook, which is an ancient beer soup from Voss, that was fantastic. Around the world, there has become an insane interest in micro brewing beer. And nothing is more popular than this Voss soup, which is inherited from generation to generation for hundreds of years on the farms. It's quite unique in the world context. International companies have tried to get hold of it and tried to capitalize it. It is incredibly sad if we in Norway are unable both to maintain and to secure the broiler, as well as simply to nourish it. That's why we put half a million dollars into this project at Voss. I know that the representative of the Progress Party is in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1343	The cut to the Cultural Council of 18.5 million. NOK is part of a total cut of almost 200 million. kr on the Centre Party's alternative cultural budget – despite the fact that the Centre Party is using 29 billion in its funding alternative. oil crowns to glaze the budget. How many crowns of oil had to be in the budget of the Centre Party to preserve the original framework for culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1348	Thank you for the question. This year there is a very special situation. Every year – as long as we have been in opposition – the centre party has kept us in our budgets within the framework of the government as well. We have a responsible budgetary policy. Now we're in a situation where there's a lot of people struggling financially. There's a crisis out there. Then we have chosen to listen to them and be more proactive than the government is, in order to ensure that they get good support. So in sum, until 1 July, which is the date we've been using in our state budget, we've spent 32 billion. kr on emergency measures. Most of it's enough oil money, but we also have a good deal of savings in red tape around, which the representative was in, and it's cut that's definitely safe now. The important thing is to get money and help out to the first line, or out to the artists or the concrete actors who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1355	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1360	Usually I spend a little time at the beginning of my main contribution to the cultural budget debate to say a little bit about the importance and value of the art and cultural life. This year it should be obvious to most people. We've all felt missed to go to the concert, as before, to see a play, as before, to go to the cinema, as before, and to dance, close to close, far beyond in the late night hours, as before. It is a grayer, less meaningful – and I would say less human – life without art and culture, without the communities created by art and culture, without the common references and the common stories we are told through art and culture. Art and culture are fundamental and necessary human needs. But even though everyone, perhaps more than ever, really understands how important cultural life is to each of us, there is one admission that obviously has not reached everyone – and that is the government in particular – and it is that cultural life is also a serious and important industry, which before the Korona employed 36 000 people and created values for 39 billion. kr per year. The crisis aid that cultural life has received from the government this year has been systematically too small, too late and constantly full of holes: late compensation and incentive schemes, which are too short, and which do not hit the whole value chain, double communication from the government, which when the Minister of Culture one day asks the field to organize Christmas concerts, and the Prime Minister the day after asks people to stay at home, and lack of predictability, not least when compensation schemes are extended only for weeks or months at a time and it becomes impossible for cultural life to plan after the next turn. This applies, for example, to: the self-employed, those who live by delivering in cultural life, who stand on a bare ground after February, and the festival organisers, who do not know whether there are compensation schemes after June this year. SV has proposed to correct all of this, time and time again, and we are also doing so in the year's budget. As long as there are infectious measures, there must be compensation — as simple as that. Had that sentence been in the budget, everything would have been fine. Support for self-employed persons needs to be extended and the arrangements must take the whole value chain. But there's also a time when we're going to look forward again and not just turn off fires. There's a time when we're going to build cultural life on, with new efforts, to get an even richer and more varied cultural life, which reaches even wider, to joy for all, regardless of wallet and address. We're going to use 1 pst. by the State budget for cultural purposes. SV prioritizes 1 billion. more for cultural purposes in the budget of the year. Something goes to crisis management, but a lot is also going to point out the course further. And in our new cultural promise, SV will give special priority to the cultural base wall, grassroots culture, which will be present throughout the country and reach wide. The cultural school is a fantastic educational offer that is also important for cultural life, but the cultural school is divided into classes. With an average price of well over NOK 3000 for the student space only, it becomes obsolete for many families. That is why SV proposes 200 million. to make the cultural school free of charge, and to establish 6,000 new cultural schools in the new school year. We also propose 100 million. kr in grants for the establishment and operation of recreational clubs and youth centres. Open and free meeting places where young people themselves are in and out of control, and where there is a lot of cultural activity, are an important part of the cultural base wall, but it is often forgotten, and we will do something about it in this year's budget. We also propose 45 million. kr more for the development of libraries and not less than 100 million. kr more for the freedom of culture, inter alia. by cleaning up the tipping agents. These are just some of the priorities we do in this year's budget. I could also mention enhanced artistic economy, 100 million. kr more to Norsk Kulturfonds, or more to the institutions, but in sum SV's cultural budget means an even richer and more varied cultural life that more people can participate in, regardless of wallet and address. We build barriers to participation and build cultural life for the many. And with that I take up the suggestions that had to be left.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1381	I think the president says it so that all the proposals are taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1386	That's great!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1397	When the Solberg government took over, it was $0.5 billion. kr of the surplus assigned to cultural purposes. The allocation to culture is now over 800 million. kr. Some objectives have been transferred from the State budget to the games, which in turn has provided increased room for action in the ordinary budgets. The gambling surplus, as we know, varies from year to year, and therefore the objectives financed by the games can also vary. In its alternative budget, SV proposes the phasing out of actors who are not directly involved in the wide range of cultural freedom – whatever it may be. Can the representative contribute to clarifying what or who the broad cultural freedom is, and not least why SV proposes primarily to remove project-based organisations and measures that may require the least predictability from the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1402	There are simple answers to those questions. In our alternative budget, we have made a very concrete reference to the measures that are currently on the budget, which we have proposed to finance instead of the state budget. That's a list. I don't want to spend the time in my line reading that list, but I can recommend the representative to look up page 40 of the SV's alternative budget. The reason why we do this is that more and more measures have been shifted from the state budget to the drugs, and something has gone at the expense of something. It has been at the expense of Freefonds, i.e. support for children's and youth's freedom. It has been at the expense of local cultural facilities, for example: arranging in a gym with poor acoustics, where there is corps practice. It has also been at the expense of the cultural school bag. The three arrangements we want to protect, give them more funding, against moving the others to the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1409	The representative of the Supreme Court criticises the government that it has run for funding throughout this crisis, and that it has been ad hoc, with holes and customs. So through this crisis, cultural life has had almost 8 billion. kr, and I feel that the government has manoeuvred well, received recordings on the road and was willing to follow them. Does SV mean that they understood this crisis better than everyone else?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1414	I don't think I used the words 'hole and nonsense' in my post, but I can also sign it, in and off. I choose to answer that question with a concrete picture of a part of the problem, which illustrates the entire eradicating treatment that the government has given to cultural life, and that is whether subcontractors should be included in the compensation schemes for cultural life. When the closure took place in March, I was only a short time later in a debate with the committee leader at Dagsnytt 18, where I took this up. The industry was quite clear that with a compensation scheme that only hits the organizer's ladder, many stage technicians and everyone else who lives by delivering will wear out massively because they don't get the money. In the summer of 2020, that is, months after, the government had finally put that hole in the plan. Then there came a few months after an incentive scheme where the same hole is back. It shows a government that does not have the dialogue with the field necessary to find emergency arrangements that have a good and striking device.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1419	The President may confirm that the Supreme Court did not use the word ‘customs’. There's something else on a list that I have of unparliamentary expressions, so I might have noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1424	In its alternative government budget for next year, SV proposes a net increase in the tax burden of over 24 billion. kr. This will also affect large parts of Norwegian business, Norwegian business owners and Norwegian enterprises that are responsible for value creation in the cultural sector. These are thus added to their shoulders with the alternative tax arrangements provided by SV. This is an industrial hostility that also affects the cultural sector. SV seems to have a great heart for culture, but a little less heart for culture. What will SV do to make it easier for business owners to invest in more jobs in the cultural industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1429	First of all, we can start by making sure that the companies that are now going to go bankrupt because they are not receiving emergency aid from the government until after February, will receive emergency aid, for example. in the cultural and nightlife industries where we have a lot of important enterprises that employ many people and contribute to the diversity of our communities, but which are now going bankrupt while waiting for help. It's just one thing, which we've suggested a separate emergency solution to clean up. So to the whole premise for the question from the Progress Party: it's very little interesting to discuss the overall social level of fiscal policy. What's interesting is the distribution of that. And yes, SV increases the taxes for those who have all, most of all from before, to spend the money on, among other things. lower taxes on ordinary people – unlike the now seven state budgets supported by the Progress Party, where it is the richest who get tax cuts, while ordinary people just get scorn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1441	This is a cultural budget that is going to take us through the demanding time we're in. As many people have already been involved, we know that the last nine to ten months have hit the cultural industry hard. They were some of the first ones that had to shut down, and unfortunately also the last ones to partially open up again, and they are still subject to many limitations. At the same time, we've seen that the industry has been throwing around and being creative in the solutions, and we really appreciate that. The creativity and creativity of the cultural industry depend on society, and especially in this time, people need to have a bright spot to look forward to. In an unpredictable time, we can't be passive and just wait for us to return to normal. The solution in the longer term is not to continue temporary compensation schemes which do not lead to the reintroduction of culture and the voluntary sector, so it has been important to twist the support schemes to stimulate activity and to keep the wheels running. The government's goal is to contribute to the success of cultural life, volunteering and sport through the crisis, and so this year and last year, it has been allocated over 8 billion in total. kr over the cultural budget. Culture, sport and volunteering must be for everyone, and that is why we are fighting for diversity in this budget. We want an increased diversity of participants, actors and practitioners and greater breadth and diversity of cultural expressions and services. The Christian People's Party is pleased that nearly 16 million are granted. to children's and young people's culture. We want all children and young people to have the opportunity to experience artistic and cultural expressions, to express themselves through art and to participate in cultural activities together with others – within a secure framework and regardless of geography, economics, religion, disability, sexual orientation and cultural background. In the spring we will also be discussing a big message about children's and youth culture, which we look forward to. Happy we are also to ensure the further support for the Norwegian Cultural Forum, NOKU. As a national, nationwide organisation of expertise, the Norwegian Cultural Forum has a very important mandate for the local cultural sector. It is important that we have a rich cultural life throughout Norway, and NOKU is an important contributor to an active and committed art and cultural life, which creates good communities and provides people with increased quality of life. We want, as we know, full VAT compensation for volunteering, and this budget follows up our escalation plan in this area. The scheme for non-governmental organisations is proposed to increase by nearly 119 million. kr and will now be at 1.8 bn. kr. The VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities is also reinforced by more than 100 million. NOK 300 million. kr. We look forward to the year of Volunteership in 2022 and have therefore granted 3 million. kr to Voluntary Norway for the preparation of this marking. Furthermore, we strengthen the work on talent betting – and also the dance field. It has been important for us to give dance as an art form a boost both by ensuring a stronger infrastructure for professional dance and also by facilitating increased activity at regional, national and international level. In the last year, the study federations and the Adult Education Association have been transferred from the Ministry of Knowledge to the Ministry of Culture. The study federations make an important contribution to adult training in the voluntary sector. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that this division has been adopted, that the budgetary resources are now shared between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Culture. We expect the study federations to be further developed and maintained under the new department, and therefore we have also asked the government to correct the allocation to the study federations under the Ministry of Culture in the revised national budget. It is also with the strengthened efforts of the government to preserve our churches. In 2020, a total of 72 million were allocated. SEK, and in 2021 a 60 million allocation has been proposed. kr for the preservation of culturally important church buildings, of which 40 million. SEK of these shall be used for climate protection and for the replacement of electricity plants and furnaces. For the Christian People's Party, it is of high priority that we take care of our historic church buildings, as they are a very important part of our Christian cultural heritage. It has been a different and demanding year for all – and especially for the cultural sector. Since it is so diverse and fragmented, it has been challenging to find accurate devices and compensation schemes in the first round, but we have listened, and we have tried to remedy it as best we can, and we will continue to do so as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1468	I've noticed that when the representative Gleditsch Lossius has posts and is going to mention the Workers' Party, it's a very hearty way of talking about us, as a party that wants the state to govern the lives of people. I am a little interested in getting an answer to a question. For example, 160 million. kr for leisure activities for children now at Christmas, full VAT compensation, a heavy full-time bet, 20 million. kr more to volunteer, that we will let the rich pay more in taxes, and that those with the lowest income get easier, we will introduce school food, we will have reasonable SFOs and kindergartens, we will increase the amount of work for artists, we have put on the table 15.5 million. kr to counteract the government's cut to the studios, or we can say increased spectacle support: Is this thing that is government governance, that the representative Lossius is so opposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1473	I think that in dealing with the volunteering message, the Workers' Party was very clear that they want to govern the volunteering. They said it very clearly, that prevention should govern volunteering. That's not the Christian People's Party. We want the volunteer to be free. It must be free to have its power, and it means so much. If we're going to have an active and good society, we're totally dependent on volunteering in all areas. And that's just one example of how we think completely differently, both about volunteering and about family policies and a number of other policy areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1478	The government insists on the strange rule that fixed benches in churches, no matter how large the church room is, cannot be described as fixed chairs, which is the criterion that must be met if you are to have more than 50 visitors at an event. That means that many people can't go to a funeral when they lose someone. This means that very few people get involved in Christmas services, which is important in these times. It also means that very many people don't get to go to the Christmas concert in the churches, which is a pity for those who want to experience the concerts, but not least for the culture industry that makes a lot of their money in connection with this. This also means, in turn, that there is only a need to increase support schemes later on. Does the Christian People’s Party think it is right that the legislation be handled so strictly? Could the balance between infectious disease protection and culture, nutrition and not least the religious experience be better?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1483	I think when it comes to infectious diseases, it's important to think completely, and in the case of the infectious diseases councils that are given, you've just thought completely. It's important that you don't review these here in the Storting, even though you sometimes know, as the representative also describes, that this really costs, people know about sleep, they want to be in church both at Christmas services and at funerals. But it is, once again, the overall concern to protect life and health that makes us choose to have it so restrictive. I feel that most people are very satisfied with how the government has handled this until now, and they show that they have high confidence, and that they want to follow the rules that are being given, and I think they will continue to. However, we see that the situation in Norway is quite different from, among other things, the situation in Norway. our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1488	The representative Gleditsch Lossius described the volunteer with very good words, and I share the importance of it, but unfortunately also suffers the volunteer under the consequences of the coronary crisis. Among other things, we have has received a report showing clearly that particularly small teams and associations are not allowed to participate in the compensation schemes created for culture and volunteering in the last year. They don't qualify for support, and a lot of them are in an emergency. So I would particularly like to point to children's and youth's freedom, because it is very close to my heart. It's a democraticole, which is important, that gives activity and belonging to very many children and young people throughout the country. In the revised budget for 2020, they received additional funding from the basic support to compensate for the coronary crisis. In the budget for 2021, this has been removed again. LNU itself said it so fine that the young volunteer was forgotten in the state budget for 2021. Why has the government forgotten the young volunteer?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1495	As I was also quite clear in my article, because the whole cultural life is so fragmented and diverse, it has been difficult to align the compensation arrangements so precisely that everyone is taken in the right way. I, like the representative, have a great heart for children's and young people's freedom and have good dialogue with LNU on this, and they experience in their teams out there that someone knows the limit that the $25,000 limit gives, while others, once again, handle it well because there's been less activity in the team. That being said, we're very pleased with the allocation we got in place for LNU last year, with 2 million. kr to a portal where they can get an overview of the premises. I also feel that they are using this time to work on compiling that portal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1500	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1505	2020 has been a year of many trials. On 12 March, the government introduced the most comprehensive measures we have taken in Norway in peacetime, measures necessary to prevent the spread of covid-19 from coming out of control. The actors in cultural life were among the first to shut down and stop their activity. It is likely that this sector will also be the last to resume normal activities. The government was quickly in place with financial measures to remedy the situation. After this, we have been constantly working to extend, improve and further develop the financial measures in this area. In total, the cultural budget has increased by over 5.5 billion. kr during this year, and we have proposed over 2.5 billion. kr for the next six months, for the first six months of the new year, as the committee chairman was in – i.e. over 8 billion. kr to deal with this, alone by the Ministry of Culture. I should like to say that we are in goal, but of course we are not. Therefore, the proposal for the 2021 cultural budget is also strongly influenced by the Korona situation. The government has presented a record cultural budget of 23.6 billion. kr, an increase of more than 3,7 billion. kr, 18.7 pst. up from the end of 2020. And yet the situation is so uncertain that we haven't taken into account the effect of the corona in more than the first six months of next year. The ability of cultural life to think new has been impressive. My foremost task as Minister of Culture and Gender Equality is to support cultural life in the very difficult time in which they stand. The cultural budget for 2021 shall stimulate as much activity as possible. The aim of this budget is not to put cultural life at risk. Our vision is that cultural life should be constantly evolving, that more people should participate in it, that culture should reach a wider audience, and that there should be room for a diversity of artistic expressions and cultural offerings. The goal is to take a force for diversity. Let me therefore briefly summarise some of the main priorities of the budget adopted today: We have submitted a budget of over 2.2 billion. for the continuation of support schemes for the cultural sector, voluntary action and sport. We are strengthening the funding for music and stage art institutions and museums with 200 million new ones. kr. Let's make a new 100 million. kr for temporary work grants for artists. They're coming to the top of 100 million. kr, which was thus adopted in the revised national budget 2020. We also strengthen VAT compensation schemes for volunteering and sport. The government is betting on children and young people and has proposed an increase of 16 million. to various measures to promote child and youth culture. And then 29 million is going to be right over there. kr for various talent bets. After the government's 17th May video, I kind of became a dancing minister. That's why I'm very happy that we've got a real boost for the dance field – a lot of people have talked about it, but we're doing it – with 11 million. For distribution also to the regional dance centres. Culture must be built from below and reach out to the whole population. Over the last few years, the government has prioritised applications from institutions and actors implementing projects and actions for increased diversity, for gender equality and for integration. In total, we've now distributed 30 million. kr for such applications. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the committee and the committee for their good work. In a difficult time, we will be able to land a good budget that will bring the sector through this crisis. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the hardworking cultural workers across the country. The cultural sector has been in an incredible crisis. They have nevertheless kept the optimism up. They've been thinking creatively for an incredibly demanding time. I want to say that the cultural sector impresses me, and I look forward to working for them in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1549	The Council of State said in its statement that the cultural peoples are the last to resume normal activity after the crisis. That's absolutely right, because they live by gathering people. As we all know, it's going to take a long time before you can resume normal activity and gather as many people as parts of cultural life gather, and then I think it's a little weird that the government doesn't take it into account. Now large parts of the cultural sector and cultural workers are entering a bad Christmas with great uncertainty, they don't know what they're going to live on. Governments estimate how many billions he has given, and it's probably nice and great, but it doesn't help all the important cultural actors who aren't taken by the schemes. I can't stand a new estimate of how many hundred million dollars the council has spent. I want to know what he wants to say to people in Oslo Kru who are licensed because they can't stimulate themselves to activity and better economy, or people at the Park Theatre who still haven't seen their money from May. Why can't the government just say that crisis aid should last until the crisis is over and get out the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1554	It's a funny situation, because I think it's the first time I hear the opposition saying that billions of dollars that the government is putting up with are not helping. What else should help? Empty and empty words? This government prioritises the cultural sector not only in words, we prioritise it with billions – 5.5 billion. kr alone from the cultural budget. I heard that the representative was up in the pulpit and said we were late. Late? It was March 12th that the corona occurred, and six days later, already March 18th – it's just google it – we were out there and presented 900 million. kr for the cultural sector. I don't want to say it's late. You might think that you were supposed to be there before the corona, but I don't think anyone could predict that the corona would occur. And when the opposition complains that we're putting up with billions, I'm very uncertain about what more you need. I think that the cultural sector needs more than anything else, is that we set up with billions. We have created predictability for them throughout the crisis, and so do we for the next six months, when we set up with a new 2.5 billion. NOK for the next six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1560	The problem is that the council is most concerned about itself and sitting at its desk and looking at the big numbers, instead of looking at how the big numbers hit, and how the arrangements work out there. It is incredibly arrogant to stand here and act with self-esteem when so many cultural workers and so many actors in the cultural sector now have nothing to live on, and do not know what the spring will be like, precisely because the arrangements are on the Treasury account and are not paid out, and because the arrangements do not make. Talk to people a little bit more. Drive a little less with self-scream. Why can't the government just say that the crisis aid schemes should last until the pandemic is over – sentence – when the Council of State stands here and acknowledges that cultural life is the last in society that will be able to have ordinary activity again? Why not give them the security and support they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1567	I think the representative is well aware that the incentives we create are actually being used. So there have been over 1,700 applications for the incentive scheme. What will the representative answer to all those who have actually received these applications? If the representative had got what she wanted, that one had automatically, after submitting the application, been paid out, they would have approx. 250 rejections that have arrived have received these funds. Then we would have spent money on those who do not meet the conditions for getting funds. It had gone down on all the others who are entitled to these funds, and when it turned out that the scheme we created was 500 million. NOK, and the applications that had been received were nearly 700 million. kr – what did we do? We only spent a few days and said, "We're increasing the frame, and we're increasing it to 700 million." kr. In the VG today, I am out with news that the arrangement we made, the compensation scheme, is 200 million. kr, turns out to be too small, and I've said it's going to be increased to 350 million. kr – minimum. The cultural sector needs billions, not empty promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1574	I recognize that I am not getting an answer to what the Council of State wants to do for all those who fall outside. He is pleased with the arrangements as they are. It's something to bring into Christmas for cultural people who now don't know what to live for. I want to go over to another question that I hope to get a proper answer to. The Council of State was out six months ago and scrapping away the very unpopular proposal for regional reform for cultural life, but then we could put coffee in the throat when we read the budget, because the most drastic instrument is still mentioned in the budget to be introduced, to change the so-called allocation keys for cultural institutions, which means that one goes from having a firm security to having a level of state support, to agreeing on this in dialogue. Can the Council of State explain to me what has happened here, for two days after the budget was presented and the fight of course came from the cultural sector and the opposition, the Council of State said no then, we shall not do it anyway. Who has written this budget? And don't the council have control over what he's presenting to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1581	There is no reason why the representative should put the coffee in the throat. Ali Abid is here to cure gruff! And we've already cured the gruff. Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, chairman of the committee, was, in consultation with me, out already the day the budget was presented, and said that because we are now in crisis, it is better that we create predictability for the sector. That is why the Chairman of the Committee has wisely proposed postponing the issue of key allocations. It is important to say that it was addressed in the Culture Communication. This has been known by Stortinget. The majority has actually attached that protocol, so we have followed up some of it, and then we will come back to it again in the budget for 2022, but the chairman of the committee was wise on this already on the same day as the budget was presented. I take note of what has been found to be a good majority, including the support of the Left for it, in that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1586	It's nice that the Council of State is curing gruff. We have also tried to cure many of the other problems that have arisen in the cold water of the Korona, and one of the groups we have been very concerned about is self-employed and freelancers in the cultural sector. The government had originally proposed that the scheme for these be terminated on 1 November. The Progress Party is very pleased that we negotiated an extension of the scheme, first out of the year and now until March. I have two questions for the Council of State. Does the Council agree with me that, as long as the crisis is ongoing and the restrictions are present, should the arrangements for this group not be abolished? Will he ensure that the government does not propose to abolish these arrangements again as long as there are strong restrictions on the gathering of people and the audience?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1593	I would say that in a crisis there is no package or arrangement that can be made that is perfectly perfect. When you look at it after a month, two months, six months, one year, you'll always see how things should be done. At the same time, Norway is the country in the world – fortunately, we have economic muscles for this, but we take great pride in the fact that it is the bourgeois government that does it – that provides the most resources for the cultural sector. Then we look at both the Ministry of Finance and the Labour and Social Ministry's system for self-employed workers, which thanks to the Progress Party has been extended in February. I would also like to acknowledge that the budget agreement with the Progress Party has contributed to a total increase of 20 million in the cultural budget. kr. We should have paused for a few seconds to recognize that. That is good, and they have contributed to the proposals we had made, such as: The scholarships for the artists have been preserved, and I would like to praise the Advancement Party for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1598	There are a lot of people who fall out of the arrangements, and I believe that the Council of State must take it seriously. I am also quite tired of getting the idea of how good arrangements you have, and how much money you put into it, when the device is not correct. Now let's take a very concrete example that I hope the minister will notice. In the VG we were able to read about the filmmaker Geir Greni, who first received compensation from the Culture Council, but who has now been asked to repay the aid of 3.4 million. kr. On questions from VG about why film producers are out of the scheme when they also lose ticket revenue, the Council of State answers that ‘restrictions based on the protection of infection are in the first series of events and therefore the compensation and incentive scheme is aimed at organisers’. But the cultural sector is so much more than that. Does the Council of State really believe that it is appropriate for some subcontractors – in this case film producers – to be excluded from the compensation scheme and, in the utmost consequence, to go ahead because the Council of State does not want to adjust or listen when it comes to putting in place a device that works much better, so that it hits better?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1607	We work all the time to adjust and make necessary changes if necessary. I have noted some press releases from SV and the Workers' Party, which criticised the fact that the Advance Party had cut 10 million kroner. kr at the Council of Culture. Then I see that the Center Party is now standing in the hall defending that they will cut further. They'll cut 18.5 million. kr at the Council of Culture, which is thus the primary management of these schemes – the Central Party, which is thus the party of the districts. These resources now managed by the Cultural Council come all the way out to the districts. That's what these 1,711 applications show that they don't just hit the big cities, they hit the whole sector, all over the country. It's strange that maybe the largest batch on the opposition's side -- on the measurements, at least -- shows that you want to cut this. With regard to the specific matter you raise, about Geir Greni, I would like to say that the Stortinget should not deal with individual cases. The Culture Council has been given a mandate to deal with this matter. There is also an independent complaint subject. And you have to be able to take advantage of that. I think it's right that we allow the Culture Council and an independent complaint subject to deal with the issues, and then we get back to it when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1616	I know many people in culture and outdoors who not only choked the coffee, but who were sincerely provoked when the last few weeks could read that Norwegian industrial lobbyists were getting written about the rules for the protection of workers' health and safety via SMS. Why did it provoke culture? At the same time, private enterprises in the field of nightlife and culture are still waiting for compensation for fixed costs, and they are in the process of going bankrupt while they are waiting. At the same time, actors such as Oslo Kru, with over 100 permanent employees, are not taken by the incentive scheme from the government. Why is it that cultural and outdoor enterprises are treated as second-class industries? Is it such that the Council of State does not have telephone numbers for these industries and can arrange some text messages for them as well, as the government does for others?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1623	We have to recognise the efforts made by the Cultural Council to manage these billions that we have set up, in a responsible way. Had it not been responsible, it would have meant that an application was submitted equal to automatic payment. It would be not to take seriously the responsibility we have to distribute the community's money in a responsible way. There are many who have been denied the incentive scheme. There are also several who have been refused compensation. Large applications for a high level of funding therefore need to be reviewed and reviewed. In that case, documentation from the Council of Culture will also be requested, and the actors will then have to bring the documentation on the table. Because some of these arrangements have been framework-driven arrangements, it is important that the necessary documentation is in place and that the procedures are properly handled. So I think the representative should also spend a few minutes recognising the efforts actually made by the Council of Culture to deal with these matters and do it in a responsible and proper way. There is not a single case handler in the Cultural Council who wants to spend longer on each and every matter than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1638	The aim of religious and life-seeing policies is to facilitate the exercise of freedom of belief and life in practice and to create a life-viewing society. The development of a multi-religious and diverse society increases the need for dialogue and an up-to-date law that can reflect the multi-cultural society we have. In the spring of 2020, the Storting passed a new and modernised religious community law. The law should give greater freedom to the Norwegian Church, as a natural consequence of the state church being dissolved as such. The Norwegian Church is still to be a nationwide, independent and democratic people's church. It is important for the government that the level of the framework grant makes it possible to achieve the objectives through the presence of the services of the clergy, religious training and deaconal work throughout the country, as well as the preservation of church democracy. The framework grant of approximately SEK 2.3 billion. kr in the State budget for 2021 will, together with the funds they receive from the municipalities, enable the Norwegian Church to meet precisely these objectives. The older church buildings are among our most important cultural memories, and many are in far too poor condition. Over the last two years, we've allocated 112 million. kr for the preservation of cultural-historical important church buildings. It now seems to be a 60-million average. kr for the purpose of 2021. We see that there is a total mass that is behind the desire to secure this cultural heritage also for future generations. We're happy about that. After 200 years without clarification, the government announced a solution to the Enlightenment Fund, where the assets of the Fund are shared between the Norwegian Church and the State. The message was addressed by Stortinget in the spring of 2020, and the setting will be followed up in the ministry. Our plan is to present a case about this to Stortingen this spring. The values of the fund provide the basis for a significantly enhanced effort to restore and secure the churches in the future. The government will pursue an active supporting belief and life-view policy. The communities of faith and life are important communities in the local communities and offer, inter alia, activities of children and young people and care and assistance services. This is not least important in the difficult time we are in now. The new law has a background to the need to simplify the different arrangements currently applicable to government grants to the religious and life-view societies. From 1 January 2021 onwards, municipalities will no longer have financial responsibility for the faith and life-view societies other than the Norwegian Church. The syndicates will then receive a total grant from the State. It implies a simplification for the communities, for the state and for the municipalities. A new digital portal for the registration of religious and life-view societies and requirements for grants entail further simplification. We're going into 2021 with better regulation and better funding solutions for the area. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1660	Many are shaken by what several media have revealed about closed religious communities lately. The councils have also responded to the number of oversights that have been carried out with these religious and life-view societies in recent years, and there were five oversights in three years. The Labour Party believes this is far too small. We were worried about it also when we discussed and adopted the new belief and life-view law, but the government and the minister thought it was enough to continue as before. That's despite the fact that the government first presented 500 members as a framework for getting support, which would have improved the possibility of control. How will the Council of State follow up the control, and now see that setting a higher limit on membership would be good? How will the Council of State enter into dialogue with the religious and life-view societies, as he himself says in this post, when he voted against it when we promoted it in the messages of faith and of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1667	What's interesting is that if the representative had been able to get a pass to set a limit of 500, it would have been easier to control and supervise the organizations, because they had been much fewer. That means that there had been a very large number of religious communities that you had not overseen or controlled, because they are not supported by the state. That means that the situation could get a lot worse for the people involved. I think the very arrangement we have, with a completely new law, is good, because it's not right, as the representative says, that we're not willing to do anything about it. The new law is clearer that one can lose support, that it can be withheld, or that one can be withdrawn if a breach of Norwegian law, of course, but there are also a number of other clear demands on what is needed to lose the support. Then we've said that it's the statesmen who are going to exercise control and supervision through a clear reporting that's going to be easy for the religious communities, but they also have to report very much. I think the new law is going to lead to a completely different situation and hopefully through that dialogue also tackle things that may be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1676	I don't think the argument for the minister is entirely consistent. Obviously, there will be fewer societies if we set a limit of 500, but it also means that the state says they have no responsibility for the others, and there is a difference between saying that when the state contributes money, the state has a responsibility for things to be okay. When the state does not contribute money, they are free, and so is today. Not everyone falls under all legal conditions in which the state can enter and control. In some of these, there are illegalities, but they are not subsidized by the State. So that's what's the question here: why should the state subsidize so small religious communities when there's so much lack of control and the government doesn't give more funds to the statesmen in order to actually carry out the control that would be necessary to discover what's present of accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1683	The reason why we landed at 50, 500 would mean that very many religious communities would lose support. There are many religious communities with fewer than 500 members who are doing a tremendously important job in their community and mean a great deal to their members. So it's about looking at the religious communities as a social force that gives society a lot of positive. But I still believe that as a state we have a responsibility to also take care of those religious communities that are not supported by the Norwegian state. I stand here and fight for freedom of belief and life in this country, but I am concerned that the members of the different religious communities should be well where they are. That's why I think there's nothing wrong with having a limit of 50, and that the state should follow along, among other things. through reporting, because we'll get more overview now than what we would get if we had gone for 500. And if you're worried about something, the statesmen should go in and supervise. So I believe that the arrangement we have is good for freedom of belief and life, as well as for those who experience negative social control.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1692	The Council of State Raja was so eager that he chose to focus only on the cuts in the bureaucracy of the Council of Culture, which the Centre Party had put in place, without taking into account all the assertions we have, among other things. Twenty million. kr to the Cultural Fund, which the government has cut 10 million. kr extra after negotiations with the Progress Party. It's dramatic. Same cut, 10 million. kr, has come to church maintenance following negotiations with the Progress Party. That means that church maintenance now gets 10 million. less to travel by 2021 than the minister and department actually thought was sound and correct. What parts of church maintenance are now going to be down priorities after the negotiations with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1699	It is absolutely right that I wish that this cut did not happen. That's why I've fought for every penny that goes to the maintenance of churches, and I'm going to do that in the future. But as the representative knows very well, the lag is much bigger, so it just means that we can't reach as much as we had hoped next year. But hopefully there will be even greater appropriations in the budgets ahead. I am not least going to follow up what I talked about in my post, about the Information Society's fund, in cooperation with the municipalities, because the municipalities are still going to have this responsibility, we have to remember it, and also that it is extraordinary that we are doing this, because there was a completely different time under the red-green. Now we're bringing money. 112 million. kr is already granted, and it's going to be 60 million. Add kr. It's because we have a great commitment that we grant money. When you get to it with the Information Society's fund, there could be billions in the next few years, to reach either stone churches or other important protective cultural churches. So I'm glad that a total accumulation has joined this, because it has to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1706	In our discussion of the Storting new legislation in the field of faith and life, which I know the Council of State is very concerned about. The party of progress gained some important impact in that treatment, including: that the government should come back quickly with changes in the law in order to ban fixed after-school provision with overnight accommodation, inter alia. with regard to radicalisation, segregation and non-integration. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about when he expects these matters to be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1711	I can't say that, unfortunately, because it is the Minister of Knowledge who is following those decisions. I do not have a complete overview of how it works, but I can stress that it is an important topic. It is important that children are safe, that of course they are allowed to participate in religious communities and many beautiful activities that take place there in the afternoon, but this must be done in a good and safe way. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Knowledge will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1716	The Council of State referred to the Information Service's fund and that is important. That fund stands for large values, and the division that is in progress is an important work. Now that the settlement between state and church is to be settled, to put it that way, a group is set up that goes over properties, and that is to provide suggestions for what is to end where. The problem is that the municipalities are not represented in this group, in this process. It's serious, because there are a lot of communities that have important properties that are important to the municipality, to the community, and that are now to be distributed either to the Church or to the state. There's a fear out there that quite a lot of internal files can disappear out of the control of the community and be privatized in and out of it. How will the Council of State ensure that the municipalities are brought into this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1722	When one goes back to the message we asked about the OVF, it is clear that there we had the discussion about whether the Church would get the whole fund, whether the state would take the whole fund, or whether we would find medium-sized solutions. We chose a model that said that all the values should belong to the Church. That's where the decision was made. But then it's obvious that there are many of the values, whether it's construction, forest or power plant, that the Church has no interest in taking over. Right in that distribution, the Church is involved in selecting which of the different properties or values have special value for the Church, and then the distribution will go after it. Once it's done, the rest of the values will belong to the state, and then we'll have to take the discussion about how these are going to be used. I have been contacted by rapporteurs and others who want a cremator in the middle of the centre, but there will be a debate that will come later. When we bring a law to the Stortingen this spring, it might be that you start taking these discussions, but first and foremost in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1732	2020 has been an important year for the cultural environment. The government has presented the big picture New objectives in the cultural environment policy – commitment, sustainability and diversity – with which the Committee is well aware. Providing for a good follow-up to the cultural environment message in the coming years is the most important task in this field right now. With the communication of the cultural environment and the new objectives, the government signals that the management of the cultural environment should be measured by the contribution to society. We're still working to preserve cultural and cultural memories, and the effort to reduce loss and damage is, of course, also going to be carried on, but it's going to be clearer why we want to keep, why we want to document, and why we want to put in place. The cultural environment is an important factor in the transition from a linear to a circular economy. The most environmentally friendly house is what is already built, and protection through use is therefore still an important principle – yes, I want to say an increasingly important principle. The government will encourage participation and participation in the management of the cultural environment and strengthen the framework conditions for owners and their managers. We are among others engaged in strengthening the framework conditions beyond pure means of delivery, e.g. through manual training and advisory services. Furthermore, the government is busy strengthening the partnership between owners and the management image so that a better balance between rights and obligations becomes prudent, and not least that the owners’ views should be added to the emphasis. The total budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment for the results of the cultural memory and the cultural environment has increased by about 13.6 million. NOK 2021. The increase is mainly due to an increase in vessel protection rights of more than 10 million. NOK 8 million has been added. kr to the City of Goodsship. At the same time, it's over 4.1 million. kr from the Riksantikvaren to the county councils in connection with the regional reform. Over three years, it's going to add up to over 10 million. kr from Riksantikvaren. The protection of vessels is a particularly important part of the preservation of our maritime heritage. In the budget agreement, the Storting has increased the pledges to some selected vessels, with a total of 10.7 million. kr. The cultural memory fund's backbone system is a successful low-threshold offering that ensures the diversity and breadth of cultural memory protection. The target group is private owners of cultural heritage. The loan to the fund has been strengthened for many years, but is slightly reduced by 6.6 million. kr in connection with the budgetary agreement here on the house. There is still a lot we don't know about the Viking Age, but the excavation of the Cityship will give us a lot of new knowledge. For 2021 it's going to be equal to 7.9 million. kr to complete the excavation of the township in Halden. The project was started this year with an estimated cost of 23.5 million. kr. So this is the first excavation and investigation of a Viking ship's tomb of over 100 years, and technological developments have been enormous since the last. National and international expertise is closely linked to the excavation and will ensure knowledge of the findings, which can also be disseminated to the public in different ways. Work on a new cultural environment law is one of the most comprehensive initiatives in the Environmental Action Communication, and legislative work will take a lot of time in the future. We are in the process of assessing how the work will be done, and we are going to inform the Storting about the work on the laws at relevant conditions. Another important action from the Culture Environment Communication is the development of the new conservation strategies. The Riksantikvar will have a very important role to play in their follow-up. Work is in progress, and a pre-project for the process design project will start in the new year. In parallel, the thematic breakdown must also be established. That work, too, I will come back to Stortinget and inform you when the time has come. Finally, I would like to note that there are also important environmental policy measures under the budgets of other departments. I would like to learn that the government is contributing 32 million. kr to the Norwegian Industrial Workers' Museum at Rjukan in Telemark, the Heavy Water Shell, distributed between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The government contribution from the budgetary agreement has increased by 10 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1762	There was a lot of talk about maintenance. I can only inform the Central Party that the Progress Party had 20 million. kr extra to churches, but unfortunately we did not get through to it in budgetary terms. What warmed my heart very much, however, was that the council talked about ship protection. He's from the same coastal state as I know what this means at home, but of course also in other parts of the country. The construction and securing of ships has been a carrier in the Norwegian economy since the Middle Ages, as it is on the ministry's pages. That's what I'm standing at the back of my heart. Without the use, maintenance and knowledge, we can simply risk the disappearance of the historic fleet of these vessels we have. I wonder what the Council of State will do about it in order to strengthen ship protection, for example. Hardanger vessel protection centre, which has an ambitious plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1771	I myself have enjoyed visiting Hardanger Ship Protection Centre and seen the important work they are doing, with incredibly skilled craftsmen who exercise a trade there are not as many who can anymore, but who have a key role in the broad, important ship protection work, of which the government is definitely busy. I have to add that I am also aware that the Progress Party is very concerned about it, and I am pleased about that. I am also pleased that this work has been strengthened through the budgetary process here at Stortinget, following our negotiations with the Progress Party, and that there are now funds for several specific vessels, which will be delighted to be upgraded. It's positive. In the future, I think there are two things that are particularly important. The only thing to do is take care of craft traditions and the professionals we need to do the job. Then, of course, we don't get away with the fact that we need a good enough budget for ship protection in the future. There's a huge amount of volunteer work around this – let's say – but there's also a need for resources, and there's a long line of people who want to start working with their vessels in their region.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1780	I'm pleased with the involvement of the Council of State in this field. I think it was special that he also pulled out the ships MS «Sunnhordland» and MS «Old Helgeland». He's been very busy in this process. But I want to get back to the ship protection centers. What the Council of State pointed out about competence and the unique environment that exists in the ship protection centres is something we need to take care of, precisely because there are so few who can do so. The hardware of the vessel protection centre is in a rather demanding situation now, where they will have a very low level of activity. They now have a program called Tight, just to expand and realize their ambitions, to which I know that at least the Minister of Culture has been positive before. Will the Council of State take an initiative with the Minister of Culture to find a solution here?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1787	I am very busy with the ship protection center and consider them a very important part of the infrastructure we need in order to have a good and strong ship protection in Norway. They're definitely doing a very good job. This is about a little bit different things. The one is of course money. It is clear that there must be enough money for both the individual vessel, for them to be able to be put up and put in place, and for the ship protection centre to have a basic promise that will enable them to operate. We have a little bit of different historical experience here, and it is important that ship protection centres are also well operated. In the past, we have had examples of one who has boarded a ship without having full funding in place. Then get a problem with the order of work to be done, and it can cost things. But as I know our shipguard centers today, I perceive that they are drifting well, fortunately. That's good, and we're going to back up the important work they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1794	I am happy to see a meeting of the responsible State Council in the cultural memory field. It breaks with a pattern that has disappointed me in previous budget debates. But the cultural memory budget itself follows the same pattern as before, and we in the Center Party have seen that it is necessary to strengthen the cultural memory field by approx. 137 million. kr more than the government's proposal. Is the reason why cultural memory protection is not raised more and better, that the government does not need it after the Left participated in setting national objectives for cultural memory protection that are not measurable?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1799	Firstly, a good deal has been said earlier in the debate on how the various strengths of the Central Party in different areas of its budget are funded by a combination of oil money and monopoly money. The individual selector may have to make a point of how much you trust that there is something that can actually be realized. But I understand that there is a choice soon, and then one should make yourself feel good. It is such that it has for a long time been a strengthening of cultural memory during this government. For example, for the last six years, there has been an increase in the Riksantikvaren budget of 23 p.m., and the proceeds to the Kulturmädefondet have increased by 98 p.m.. in six years. We are systematically strengthening this field, so that we have muscles that enable us to take care of our cultural environments and the important work that is going on out there. When they say: I know the different environments and projects very well, and I know that there is no shortage of good projects. It's never been, it's very many, there's a lot of enthusiasts, and I'm trying to find a good budget, so they can get out of their commitment and we can take care of our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1815	Government statements about the electoral campaign budget fall on stone floor – we have had this kind of increase of between 130 million. SEK and 150 million. kr in all budgets in the last few years. So we follow this up, and we in the opposition have responsible budgets every year within the same framework as the government. So over to something else: the Cultural Memory Fund. It's incredibly important for our cultural memory protection. So far this year they have distributed approx. Ten million. NOK, which has again triggered a total protective effort of 372 million. kr. If you give me one more cent there, you're going to get $3.5 more in value. Since 2003, therefore, the protection efforts of the Cultural Memory Fund have triggered almost three billion. kr. This is incredibly important. But then, after the government negotiations with the Progress Party on the budget, the Cultural Memory Fund has suddenly got a cut of 10 million, too. kr. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1822	The cultural memory fund has a very important role to play when it comes to triggering investments and other means of creating important cultural memories in our country. That is also why the Cultural Memory Fund has not been cut, but strengthened for many, many years. More specifically, we actually have double the rewards of the Cultural Memory Fund since the Central Party put in government. That's why so many good projects can be triggered. But it is true, as the representative points out, that even though we proposed a solid budget to the Cultural Memory Fund in my view, there was a slight reduction in the negotiations with the Stortinget. But I think there's reason to remember that there wasn't a reduction in the cultural memory effort itself. This has been done as a redispatch, with the majority of people wanting to take money from the general fund scheme and spend it on a number of specific projects, including: the various vessels mentioned in the previous row change, which are now allowed to take the permits to be upgraded. That is often what happens when the Storting is going to conduct budgetary negotiations. That's life.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1827	I fully agree with the Council of State that this is life, and that is why we are here discussing, because we are dealing with different priorities and priorities. I'm going to take up another moment that we in the Center Party have begun to exaggerate very much in the field of cultural memory protection, and which I hope we don't need to have so many discussions about the future, namely building protection centers. We write well about it in the vote, and we also propose it. The idea is that each state should have at least one building protection centre. We need it both to maintain craft traditions, to ensure that the craftsmen know what they are doing, and to help with, among other things. The funds of the cultural memory fund are being deployed. What does the Council of State think about building protection centres? Is there anything he wants to help the Center Party raise forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1834	Whoever's going to help who, I don't know completely, but at least I think we have a common commitment to this, and both building protection centers and other consulting services are very important for the practical refurbishment work that's going on out there, and for maintenance. It acts as an easily available offer, a low-threshold offer, actually, for both owners and craftsmen, so I'm absolutely for that type of center. That's exactly why we in the Cultural Environment Communication, which we discussed here in the Chamber earlier this year, announce that we will assess start-up incentives to stimulate regional development with advisory services for private owners of the cultural environment. Of course, we will consider it in the future – financing it, getting it in place – and in the grant letter to the Riksantikvarn 2021, we also propose to them to propose to consider current cooperation models for testing start-ups in order to stimulate the development of regional advisory services. So this I believe the representative will be well pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1839	Cultural heritage schools are extremely important both for the preservation of the intangible cultural heritage, for people to learn the crafts that are required not just to have, for example, the intellectual heritage. boats from the past on pictures, but also to be able to build them as they were built, and use them around on fjords and lakes here in the country. It's also important for the circular economy in the time we go into now, where we have to repair several things instead of just throwing and buying new ones. We have two in my home state, the Plus school in Fredrikstad and the Furniture Sneaker School in Mysen, which is important in this field. But unfortunately, we see that these schools don't fit into the grant regime. They wear out, they are in danger of being laid down, and it has been pointed out in a unanimous remark in the budget. I'm very happy about that. SV has proposed 7 million. In addition, kr. My question to the Council of State is what the government will do to care for these important cultural heritage schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1844	I have noticed that remark, and I will of course follow it up in future also in dialogue with my colleagues in the government who, through their sector responsibility, can influence this, because it is clear that these are schools that are very important to ensure central craftsmanship within traditional craftsmanship. In the work on the cultural environment message, when I traveled a lot around, there was just the need for crafts and education that was most often highlighted, and which many thought was where the shoe was printed, to put it like that. As we have heard in previous line-up exchanges, both ship protection centres and building protection centres are of course important jobs for them, but the representative of the Supreme Court is quite right that one must also have an education at the bottom. I notice the commitment of the committee in that area. It seemed to me to be affordable, and I'm going to follow it up to the best of my ability in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1851	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1856	First of all, just a few considerations about the cultural budget: it is well and good that the Council of State wants changes, systematisation and other structures for the division of labour between departments and cultural councils and between departments, states and counties, but the processes carried out by the Council of State are under any criticism. It is rare to hear so many desperate actors in the cultural sector, who feel overwhelmed, feel little listened to, feel little involved, and feel that the future is uncertain. Cultural activities, cultural activities, are risk sports. There are very few people in Norway who are able to live by culture. Therefore, long-term predictability, knowing what arrangements exist, knowing what goes on next year, is absolutely fundamental for people to dry up within culture. What we've seen with this state budget is the opposite. The Council of the European Union must take the time to complete other and thorough processes with the actors in the sector, and also send fundamental questions to the Stortningen for discussion, but not over the table in a budget proposal. We've already been to volunteer. It is an enormous voluntary activity in Norway. Almost 80 pst. are members of different non-governmental organisations. But even better: two thirds of the population participate in voluntary activity each year. More than 140000 annual works are carried out in voluntary work. It has a value, if it were to be paid, of up to $80 billion. kr. A lot of things in society, for example: real inclusion of minorities moving into Norway, safe growing conditions for children and young people and the counter-activity of solitude can never be solved by municipal or state tasks alone. It's the voluntary, civil sector that gives us all these goods. What we can do as politicians is to make the best possible possible use of these nearly 80 billions to be even more billions, that 140 000 annual works can be even more annual works, and that two thirds of the population can be up to 100 pst. by the people, who benefit and enjoy this wonderful community and the enormous positive effects this has on everything from crime to health and many other things, but of course most importantly: the value in itself. That value is not reflected in the priorities of the majority of this State budget. We have proposals from the opposition to make the VAT compensation regulated, so that the money now paid to the state can be recovered in the foreseeable, unbureaucratic and long term. We have proposed that volunteers should receive secure future funding as a earmarked scheme. I heard the committee leader in the line-up be very happy that it was saved for 2021. Why can't she just say that it's saved – sentence – for 2022, 2023, 2024, and then people can concentrate on the volunteering center? We have suggested that we make the system of compensation for VAT for sports facilities governed by rules. We don't get a majority for any of this. That's a little bit of money in the big deal. If you think of a few hundred million in VAT compensation or a couple of tens of millions in BUA or the money we give to the volunteer agencies, and then it accumulates on a value creation potential of 80 billion. kr, if this had been quoted, it would have been a very good investment object. It's not. This is voluntary, this is society, this is the community. Then it's we that manage it in this room, that have to make this money easier. I'm especially concerned about sports. We've had strict rules for sports. After getting back and forth, we’ve got top football – it’s been pretty good – but a lot of the children’s and youth sport has been hit hard, and what many sports have told us about is that through the corona, there has been a lack of success. Some of them are unable to make layers, especially for example: in the girls' football, which had just enough to put a team in a series, etc. I think we should be prepared – and I would also appeal to the Council of State – that, in particular, in the field of sport, and the activities of children and young people in particular, we need to be willing to put more money on the table, make better arrangements to ensure that that part of volunteering is just as strong when we get out of the corona as when we entered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1871	This is the last budget debate in this flooding period, and I will therefore start from a helicopter perspective. The opposition is constantly trying to create a picture that this government and this majority are doing nothing. That's not true. I would like to remind you that as far as possible, as some examples, we have dealt with the volunteering message, the cultural message, the copyright law, the media support message – I could list many more – which are important processes and important messages that we have treated and decided as a big deal. Only this year, since March, we have, as we have heard several times in the debate today, spent 5.5 billion more on coronary compensation for culture, sport and volunteering. Which other country is playing in the same league? No one, and we also know that the closure has been both harder and longer in most other countries. My conclusion is that much of course could have been done both differently and certainly even better, but I think they all, most of us in our sectors have reason to be satisfied with the handling. But someone always lives by highlighting the dissatisfaction. Also in the 2021 budget there is approx. 2.5 billion more to the coronary action for the first six months, and that's good. But also the ordinary budget has an increase of 4.1 pst., which the representative of the Trettebergstuen claims is a flat budget. In fact, we must be able to say that the debate here is about one of the year's budget winners, although it may not sound like this in the debate. After several years of debate and transitional arrangements, I am pleased that the country's many volunteer centres now have a secure future. There has been a long fight, and there has been a long process, in several committees, but now in many ways the puck is in goal, and I'm glad of that. The funding is back with us in culture, and it is now earmarked. We keep our promises. Although the opposition wants to produce it as a defeat, next year we will provide VAT compensation in line with what we promised in the voluntary service, 1.8 billion. kr. And in terms of VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, we again this year see that all approved applications are fully compensated. The right is concerned with safeguarding the intangible cultural heritage. Norway has committed itself, through the UNESCO Convention, to taking care of this, and the knowledge we are talking about is often the act and lies in its hands, which has also been included in a line change or more here. The furniture scaffolding school in Mysen and the Plus school in Fredrikstad are examples of crafts schools that have built up a top-notch competence over many years. For climate, resource use and economic reasons, it will be socially beneficial to facilitate the re-use and restoration of cultural memories as part of the circular economy as well. I am therefore pleased that the Committee together asks the Government to consider possible support schemes to secure the future of these crafts, and I am also pleased with the Council's response in the change of line. I'm moving from cultural heritage to the future and the gambling industry. Let me start by putting this in perspective. It is estimated that the gambling industry in the world is trading for approx. 160 billion dollars. In Sweden, we are talking about NOK 24 billion, in Finland about 22 billion, and here at our home half a billion. Then it's no exaggeration to say that there's a great potential here. In order to support this, it is important that we also make political arrangements to play with the different game environments. Therefore, in the form of a note, we ask the Ministry to follow up the work of establishing a gaming development industry on Nordreisa, to contribute to predictability for the Norwegian Centres for Game Development and the establishment of the Norwegian E-sports association – all in line with the department's own data game strategy from the autumn of 2019. Next year, Stortinget will deal with the law on gambling. For most parties, this will be about the scope for action without compromising the model of exclusive rights, and it will be an important and relevant debate. We cannot sit still and watch Norwegian Typing alone develop and its products, while other games and lotteries do not have the opportunity to renew and update. An overall committee is now calling on the government to facilitate, for example: digital solutions for the payment and distribution of lotteries and that licence lotteries are increased in line with normal CPI development – some very small but maximum necessary steps. The government has presented a good cultural budget for the world's best voluntary, sport and cultural sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1894	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1899	It's approaching Christmas, and it's a happy time for most of us. But there are some children and young people in Norway who are not happy about Christmas. The reasons are many, but the children are always blameless whether the parents are unemployed, struggling with economics, whether they live in straits, negative social control, or intoxication and violence. Retirement policy does not solve the basic challenges for ordinary people who are now referred to queueing for food – 111,000 children in persistent poverty, 365 days a year. In an interview with TV 2, the secretary-general of the Church's Bymission, Adelheid Håmbsal, says that now politicians must wake up and get on the field. It is not that free gifts and food baskets for Christmas solve the extreme poverty that we have among over 111,000 children and their families here in the country. In addition, children and young people are severely affected by social exclusion as a result of the pandemic. Many people experience social exclusion even at Christmas. The working party believes that the community can contribute to the inclusion of more through voluntary and non-profit organisations, recreational clubs and youth homes. In order to ensure that the economy does not prevent those who will contribute to activities, including equipment, for children and young people around Christmas, we propose a budget of 160 million. kr in the year’s budget. Differences in society are increasing. Children and young people are particularly affected, also due to restrictions resulting from the coronary apathy. One of the most important things we can do together is to facilitate volunteering and organisational life – all small and large communities offering people of all kinds, in all parts of the country. The Labour Party chooses to listen to volunteering and has therefore proposed full VAT compensation in our alternative budget. Organisations can then spend their time — using resources to include more people in their activities. I have mentioned it before, but in Kristiansand and in Agder where I live, our draft budget would mean that, for example. The Blue Cross received NOK 322 000 more and the Church's City Commission NOK 207 000. Randesund sports team, where my grandchildren go, would receive NOK 216,000 and the Foundation Lifesjoyed for the Elderly just over NOK 165 000. All of this is a means that will happen to everyone throughout Norway. They should not need to live in a municipality that has to apply for a holiday card. These are universal arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1913	Culture is it glued as the ability to bind society together with experiences and communities. Films and other audiovisual productions are important means of cultural communication and forms of artistic expression. Right-wing wants a film policy that facilitates the production of high-quality audiovisual content in Norwegian and Sami available to a wide audience. Therefore, it is good that both the Sami Film Institute and the Norwegian Film Institute are strengthened in all budgets under this government – including this. The film fund, reinforced by $25 million. kr, was also strengthened by means of measures resulting from the pandemic. The film and media industry is in continuous development, including: as a result of digital developments, and the country’s instruments in this area must be designed to contribute to an innovative and competitive film and media industry, in line with the changing challenges in the industry. This year, the situation we are in has also led to the need to secure the film industry, so that recordings previously planned abroad could be recorded in Norway. Although proposals to change the financing system are being consulted and strictly not part of this debate, I would like to point out that it is not a wish from the Right that film funding should be too unilaterally managed, and that, as a consequence, we may lose diversity and geographical distribution of productions. The government's submitted Northern Territory Communication also points to how important it is that people recognize the stories told on the film canvas, and that important historical events that form the basis of films and series are also part of our common history and identity that people long after being produced and put on the film canvas. Furthermore, I am pleased that the entire Committee supported a joint comment on the long-term strengthening and improvement of the archival sector. It is my opinion that the archive sector is crucial not only to ensure legal certainty in society, but also to improve digitisation, in which we can benefit in the future from good digital archives in municipalities and countries, which facilitate more efficient processing and safe management. Furthermore, at the end of my post, I would like to thank the entire committee for a good and hard work on the budget, and I all want a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1928	I would like to make a few comments on the tame of the debate on the mention of the Korona measures. Delete processing, it was said by SV. The working party says too little too late – everything is really wrong. I have to remind you, after all, that we have granted 8 billion. kr now, which has been used and which is to be used. Everything wasn't perfect from the first moment. It's the first time we've had such a pandemic, which has had such an impact on cultural life, on travel life and on the restaurant industry. It's a process, and it's actually allowed to be in a process. I believe that, among other things: The Minister of Culture, who now changes the incentive mechanism to move to more event support, which has been requested, is an example of actually listening. It's important. I have to say I'm a little disappointed with the Center Party's alternative budget. There is good use of oil money, but cutting off the Culture Council, which has just such a crazy pressure to deal with and manage these support schemes, I think was disappointing. Some of the other cuts were less surprising, but this was actually that. I'm really wondering why both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are so opposed to the gift-enhancing scheme. So it's an addition from the state of 25 pst. to those institutions that are able to obtain money from business. The meaning of this scheme is simply that the institutions are going to get a little push, that they are going to be inspired, that they are going to get a little bit more out of hand and not the fixed allocation, whether it's from the municipality, state or state. There are actually many who have taken that glove up. 590 million. kr has been granted by the State during this period from the introduction of the scheme. There are large institutions in both Oslo, Bodø and Trondheim that have received funds. I want to pat for it and the work they do. But there are also other institutions, it's history layers, it's opera in Eastfold, small associations that have also benefited from it. So I think we have to work on the business community throwing itself over cultural life, and then cultural life has to throw itself over business.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1941	The Olympic Park at Lillehammer was established when the Olympics were at Lillehammer in 1994. Then it was a requirement that the company should be 100 pst. municipal property, but it operates according to commercial principles. The company organises large sporting events and also collects a lot of revenue from commercial events, such as concerts, rush meetings, corporate events, etc., and has a turnover of nearly 80 million. kr. The Olympic Park is an important part of the experiences and events that run a lot of the travel life in the region, a travel life that also in the interior wears a lot as a result of the pandemic. The facilities on Lillehammer are expensive to operate, and they can't just shut down. The refrigerating systems used for, inter alia: The bob and ake pathway, which is also the only one in the whole of Northern Europe, uses large quantities of ammonia and, of course, needs to be maintained and monitored on an ongoing basis. The same applies to other installations. Other companies that have had loss of income as a result of the pandemic have been compensated for the loss of income through government schemes. When the Minister of Culture, who is now coming in, visited Lillehammer in August, the Council was advised that the company should register in the Voluntary Register, so that the scheme managed by the Lottery Authority could be applied for. The registration in the Voluntary Register was refused. Then came the recommendation to talk to KS. Lillehammer Olympiapark has not only fallen between two chairs when it comes to arrangements, but they have also become a throwing ball between two departments. Neither the Ministry of Culture nor the Ministry of Local Affairs wants to take responsibility for the situation of this company. It's been a round dance. The Labour Party has put money into its budgets. The question that the Minister of Culture has a good opportunity to answer here today is: What is the solution for the Olympia Park at Lillehammer? The answer must be different from the Korona compensation to the municipalities. Lillehammer municipality already needs money. How will the Minister of Culture ensure that sports can be carried out in the Olympic facilities at Lillehammer in the future? That's the question, and it's okay to get an answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1956	Cultural protection advisory services should rely heavily on the competences of non-governmental organisations. Building protection centres should be established in all counties and centres should be linked to either a museum, a cultural protection organisation, a cultural heritage school or equivalent, but otherwise operate independently. Of course, it may be relevant that two or more counties cooperate on building protection centres, but in such a way as to ensure that the offer reaches all parts of the counties concerned. The center party has worked for this, and in our alternative budget we have also added 4.3 million. extra kr which may be involved and promote such measures. It is important to safeguard the intangible cultural heritage. Through the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage, Norway has undertaken to preserve this heritage. Intangible cultural heritage cannot be adequately preserved by archiving or digitisation and cannot be acquired by visiting an exhibition or by reading a book. This is the knowledge that is the source of action. It has not only room in its head, but in its hands, and must be taught with its hands. This cultural heritage presupposes professional environments in which knowledge is nurtured, developed and maintained by the fact that it is constantly being taught away by those who themselves have the knowledge of the hands. Many of those who have such knowledge are old, and we need a system to be able to preserve this legacy in the future as well. The craftsmanship school at Hjerleid, the furniture carpenters school at Mysen and the Plus school in Fredrikstad have built up a top competence in craftsmanship as craftsmanship schools over many years. They have also become carriers and intermediaries of an important national cultural heritage. The provision of education at these schools is a crucial contribution today to Norway’s compliance with the commitments we have made through UNESCO. In the interests of climate, resource use and economy, it is socially beneficial to facilitate the re-use and restoration of cultural memories and environments as part of a circular economy effort and heritage conservation. Craft schools are essential to achieve this. In order to ensure the future of these crafts, it is essential that support schemes are put in place quickly. The Central Party refers to our alternative state budget where it is proposed to grant $5 million. kr for the cultural heritage schools. The private cultural arenas represent an important complement to public buildings and cultural institutions. They must also be able to be carried out in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1969	The gift-enhancing system has been mentioned a couple of times here, so I'm going to be very concrete – in a case that really concerns both the two left-wing councils present in the hall. This is an example from my neighbourhood. There, at Lindahlplan in Tønsberg, operates the Oseberg Viking Heritage Foundation and builds replicas of, among other things. the Viking ships Oseberg- und Klåstadskipet, and it is built according to old craftsmanship. The oaks are carefully selected, fielded and split and dried. The rope is based on hemp, grown in India – we don’t have the right to grow such things in Norway, for incomprehensible reasons – and the ropework is made in Hardanger in the old fashion. It's become a heavy tourist attraction in the city. Now the foundation is about to begin with the Gokstad ship. This is an excellent example of the combination of creativity, historical knowledge and old, good Norwegian craftsmanship. For many years they've been trying to get into the gift-enhancing system at Lindahlplan. They've made it clear now in ours, and I'm a little proud of it. Five million. kr they have now been promised from the Anders Jahre Foundation. The five million could become six million through this scheme. On the other side of the canal, the foundation Tønsberg keeps the coastal cultural centre. They have disassembled parts of it that were once the world's largest orbit, which was 455 meters long. Now it's going to be set up again, in 100 meters, along the canal of Tønsberg. Since 1991, the Foundation has worked under a motto that they will never be finished. Now they're creating an environment, a cultural environment, around this work, and it adds amazing aesthetic values to my nearest city, and it brings tourism to the area. This foundation has benefited from the gift enhancement scheme, which has totaled 1 million. kr. So, in total, it's been added 2.5 billion since 2014. kr as a result of this great arrangement. I get a bit touched when I hear the representative Giske standing up here talking about voluntary action, but I can assure the representative that the last of these peoples in Tønsberg wants to be a government change. I cannot, with my best will, understand this allergy to the gift-enhancing system that these two parties, SV and the Workers' Party, are now presenting. In reality, this is nothing but a VAT compensation: they get 25 pst. They pay VAT, 25 pst, into the state, and then they take in 25 pst. in the form of the gift-enhancing scheme. But VAT compensation, that's what the Workers' Party wants. Is this related? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1980	Cultural memories and cultural environments are important historical anchorages both locally, regionally and nationally. The job that society is doing to take care of our cultural heritage is also contributing to providing value creation and jobs throughout the country. Cultural memories are something I as a center party are extra busy. For me, therefore, both Norway vacation and work trips became a party when I visited a lot of cultural memories this summer, including. in Røros, in Trondheim, and otherwise in Trøndelag, in Oslo, in Buskerud, in the South, and of course in Westfold and Telemark. It was everything from building protection centers to industrial cultural memories, and there was, of course, a dream of medieval stone churches, the latter, along with despairing municipal politicians struggling with the economy for the maintenance of these taxes. The Central Party is therefore right to propose a strong commitment to church maintenance in our alternative budget, and we are increasing the funding for peaceful and protective churches by 30 million. kr, which is an increase in the grant scheme by more than 40 pst. In addition, the Centre Party introduced large increases in the grant schemes of the Riksantikvaren of almost 50 million in total. kr, including 10 mill. kr for automatically peaced cultural memories, 14.5 million. SEK in increased grants to technical-industrial cultural memories and regional parks and an increase of 16 million. kr to the Norwegian World Heritage Site. So the heartbreak: The government and the Progress Party has, unfortunately, underfunded the cultural environment sector throughout the period from 2013 to 2020. The centre party, on its part, has, throughout the entire period, proposed significant increases in appropriations, and so does this year. The cultural memory package of the year represents a total increase in the cultural memory record of 137 million. kr, unlike the government's original proposal. In this we are also proposing a sharp increase of 30 million. In the appropriations for some of the most important things we have for the restoration and preservation of cultural memories in Norway, namely the Cultural Memory Fund at Røros. Today, the fund is 130 million. kr. The centre party today proposes that the fund should be built up to 300 million. kr. Menon Economics has investigated how much protection the Cultural Memory Fund triggers, and has come to the conclusion that each awarded crown triggers a protection effort of 3.5 times the size. A $300 million fund. Thus kr will trigger a protection effort around the country of over 1 billion. kr. That would be amazing. So with that in the back of the head, it's both surprising and very unfortunate with this 10 million cut. in the government's budgetary settlement with the party supporting the Progress Party. The same accountants also cut 10 million. kr in church maintenance, which we have been in for. I understand the strong reactions of the cultural memory field to this. There's no doubt that it's probably not only the cultural field, but also the cultural memory field that needs a new government for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e1995	The A magazine had in November a big report about youth sharing experiences of intoxication, sex and self-harm at Snapchat. Several young people have tens of thousands of followers as heirlooms. Vulnerable children are also vulnerable in social media, and we can no longer leave children and young people alone online. How these are to be protected is something we have to take the most seriously. The evening post has told us about an unhealthy and harmful environment on the web, and now it is about channelling it called for help to someone who can be able to help. We have simply not followed enough progress, which has gone very fast, and many good initiatives may not have been coordinated enough either. In the Right, we have a group working on tomorrow's youth policy, and a safer digital everyday life for children and young people is one area of activity. We need to ensure that the work to ensure a secure digital everyday life for children is well coordinated, we need to ensure that children have the skills to have a secure digital everyday life, and we need to ensure that children get good help when they experience negative events digitally. Parents, institutions and those working with children and young people must also be provided with knowledge and able to contribute. According to recent figures from the UNG data study, 40 pst. of the girls and 24 pst. by boys in high school in the last year have been exposed to unwanted sexual attention or harassment. Many have pointed to this over a long period of time, including: in the report everyone knows someone who has experienced it, where the young people talk about their own experiences. Children and young people need to have the handling skills they need to distinguish between what is right and what is not right. This was also the theme of the youth report on digital media, which the Children's Ombudsman received in the summer of 2019. I am addressing this in this debate because the government has set aside 1 million. to develop and implement a national strategy for just children and media, and that is good. At the same time, it is important to point out that today more than 20 state agencies, including six departments, have overlapping responsibilities. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee agreed to stress the need to establish a common strategy to ensure coordination and to ask the government to consider that one department is given the overall responsibility to ensure a clear anchoring of political leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2008	First just a few words about the gift-enhancing system, since it has become a big discussion. No one opposes private cultural institutions and activities being given private gifts. On the contrary, one of the reasons for the cultural promise was that a large public investment also triggers more private funds. But what the government parties and the Progress Party have left to prove is that the gift-enhancing system helps to give more money, because no one has been able to prove it. On the contrary, it turns out that this is pretty stable. It is also such that whether an institution receives private gifts or not, as Anette Trettebergstuen said earlier, does not necessarily depend on how hard you have worked. It has to do with profile, it has to do with what you're doing, and maybe it's cultural activities that really should have gifts, that don't get it, that they're dealing with something that's pretty narrow, or that they're in an area where there's no big, wealthy donors. What we do with the gift-enhancing system is to say that some state cultural policy is to be determined by rich donors rather than determined by the cultural policy priorities, needs, activity and quality of what happens out there. This leads to centralization. Among other things, because the big institutions are in Oslo, a problem with the cultural budget is that very much of the money goes to the capital, to the National Museum, with an operating budget of almost 1 billion. kr, to the Opera, with an operating budget of 700 to 800 million. kr. We're building a new national museum for 6 billion. kr. We've built an opera for $4.5 billion. kr. Now the National Theatre is to be upgraded for a couple billion dollars. There's huge money going into the central struts. Then we have to be more aware of trying to spread the rest of the cultural money, so that the whole country can take part in cultural activities. I am pleased that the Committee together supports projects in my country, including: The gate to Trøndelag on Ørland and the Cultural Quarter Jakob in Steinkjer. But I am disappointed that it is only the opposition parties – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, not the Advance Party and not the government parties – that are involved in the important remarks about Eggir, a marine museum that tells the fantastic 50-year history of Norwegian aquaculture, which is now Norway’s second most important export industry. They are not included in any comments about the Norwegian Radio and Television Museum, which we have previously gathered about in the context of the broadcast announcement, nor about the important legacy taken care of through the Hall of Fame. Here I should like to have the rest of the committee and the other parties with, because this is one way to spread cultural money across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2017	It is interesting to hear how insulted and provoked both the government councils and government party representatives are when SV and others from the opposition point to concrete companies that are in the process of going bankrupt – viable businesses before the coronary crisis, which are now going bankrupt because they are not taken by the compensation and incentive schemes as they are set up – especially because these are needs, adjustments and changes that have been notified for a long time. I mentioned in a line-up here a debate I and the committee leader had on the New Day 18 already in March, where we pointed to some of this. Now it's been over six months, and yet we see that, for example. Oslo Kru, who lives by delivering stage techniques, has over a hundred permanent employees and is extremely important for that part of the industry, goes bankrupt because the government does not have the ability to adapt the arrangements to the industry of reality. If the government had taken some of the provocation and insult they feel when we point to it in the opposition, and put it into a capacity and a willingness to clean up, we might have released these rounds. I would also like to add that both the Council of State and several representatives point to the size of these arrangements. First of all, it should just be missing, and it's fine. But this is about the device and how we adjust the arrangements in order to make the best possible use of them, not primarily to brush on with even more billions. It's about hitting the field as it actually is. The consequence is that we can lose actors like Oslo Kru. We can lose actors like the Boathouse Scene in Fredrikstad – at my place, an important part of cultural life – and we can lose a lot of diversity, what makes our communities good places to be: nightlife actors, small and medium-sized enterprises employing thousands of people, but who don't happen to have big capital behind them. They're the ones who go bankrupt because the government doesn't listen. I believe that there is greater reason to be provoked than that the opposition parties point to this in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2024	Thank you for the sensible debate that has been here in the Chamber. I just want to say a few words about the gift-enhancing scheme, which is an incentive for the art and cultural institutions to obtain private funding, by strengthening private donations by the state providing a grant of up to 25 pst. of the amount of the gift. The scheme has been a success since it was established in 2014. I note that at least a few of the opposition parties are opposed. If I don't misunderstand this now, I think the centre party supports the proposal, so maybe they don't quite agree on the red-green side either. After the 160 million increase in appropriations. kr in relation to the ageing of the year’s budget, the total State contribution to the scheme could amount to almost 590 million. kr. The fact that the state's set up with 590 million. kr, because we have a gift-enhancing arrangement. And together with private gifts in the scheme, from 2014 until today, it will have brought cultural life closer to 3 billion. kr. The figure is NOK 2 937 400000 - almost 3 billion. kr. In the case of the gift-enhancing scheme, it is also important to say that the award is made independently of geographical location. Institutions in all regions benefit from the scheme. I think the representative Carl-Erik Grimstad explained how this is happening in his region. We know that the impact field has been the largest in the West and in Oslo, but it is therefore independent of geographic location, and these funds from the state are also given completely without binding. The popularity of the scheme has led to a significant backlog, and I am pleased that this lag is now covered by the Storting's allocation. Then I would like to say quite at the bottom of the debate that I can reassure the committee that the entire government is naturally concerned about the lives and health of the people, about business, about children and young people, about those who fall away from sport, and about those who are not taken by the schemes in a way that is as good as we would like to see. We're constantly working on extending the arrangements and adapting them, and we're doing what we can to ensure the cultural sector in the best possible way. We have to recognise – and be touched by – the efforts of the cultural sector out there are going down in a period of crisis where they are shut down because of the pandemic. So I believe that the way we've dealt with this crisis, and through the hard work that many people have done, we see, at least of the numbers, that the infection is fortunately low in Norway compared to many other countries. And a lot of the big thanks will also go to the cultural sector, which has contributed to this great virtue.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2037	There has been a long and interesting debate. I'm not going to be a meeting plague, but I want to say that with regard to the gift enhancement scheme, I have to arrest the representatives Giske and Trettebergstuen when they say that this increases the differences between the city and the country. I just can't understand this. This simply needs to be investigated. If that's the case, I'm willing to discuss it. But it may have something to do with the fact that there are more people living in the city than in the country, and that it doesn't make any special sense to spread these funds across the country as a thin layer of prime. Who are these nations now referred to by the representative Giske? It's pretty much foundations. This is the Saving Bank Foundation, I mentioned Anders Jahre Humanitarian Foundation, the Mutual Foundation, the Dam Foundation. They're the ones who make a big contribution here, and they make the state come after it. It's a fantastic system, because there are people who have this as their daily function: seeing what projects are worth supporting. It was just to be lacking that the state does not support this with 25 pst.Oh, my God! Is that so, then, I have to ask the representative Giske that he is against these foundations granting money for charitable purposes? It has to be the same logic. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your stay in the Family and Culture Committee this year. It has been enriching and very pleasant. Now we are going to start a new debate in my second committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2047	It is starting to become a Christmas tradition that we are ending the budget debates with a heated debate about the gift-enhancing system, and it says a little that after this government has run and been in government for eight years, the gift-enhancing system is still the most innovative and the biggest effort it has made. Let me just clear up a few things: nobody – nobody at all – is against the fact that cultural life receives private money. On the contrary, there is something we applaud, and we want to contribute to making cultural life better able to attract private capital. That was a little bit of the point under the Cultural Promise as well, as the former Council of State Gishe explained instead, that we saw that when the state, the government, said we were betting on culture, 1 pst. to culture, with a cultural promise, when it inspired several private individuals to give — it increased under the Cultural Promise. This is related. We put Norwegian public development on the state budget, an organization that acts as an umbrella where cultural actors meet and learn from each other, just to get more private money in and increase the audience, etc. That's what the government has taken away from the state budget. But what's wrong with the gift enhancement scheme? Well, there's no more private money coming in because the state spends money through the gift enhancement scheme. There is no more private money coming in, and this has been examined many times. The problem is that we let private donors decide that a pot from the State budget should also go to the same institutions. So it's not us in the Storting that decides where that money is going, it's the private donors who do. And we've looked at that list every year that there's little money for the Inland, that's small money for Finnmark and Troms, that's small money for Agder. The money goes to the big cities, where the big popular institutions, which are already doing pretty well, are. Then we say, well, you know, it's much better to have political control over that money and pursue social cohesion within culture as well, and allow the whole country to participate in the cultural budget. And it goes beyond the culture of the whole country when, in addition, the government chooses to finance the gift-enhancing scheme through the means. When tens of millions go to gift enhancement, it goes at the expense of something else that's in that pot, cultural tipping. It's at the expense of small and large cultural houses, it's at the expense of choirs and theater groups, things for our kids and culture to people all over the country – because the government chooses to centralize the money where the big private money goes. It's completely wrong, and it creates increasing differences also in the cultural offer to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2060	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2065	Unfortunately, it is a bit symptomatic of the debate on cultural policy that we too little discuss how to use the money, not just the amount of money – it goes on every time. The SV and the rest of the opposition point to the way in which the gift-enhancement scheme is designed, is a bad way to manage the cultural crowns we're going to distribute. It is a reward for those who have already received private donations. It's been examined how crooked it is. It affects, among others: My county, Eastfold, and it hits North Norway, to name someone. Not least, there's something fundamentally worrying about that we're going to throw the public money as what private actors at any time think is the right culture to sponsor. Rather, we want to finance this from the state budget, in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2072	The representative Trond Giske has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2077	Let me just first say that I'm very much for private gifts to the cultural institutions. I also agree that you should do more to open it up, and that perhaps in cultural life it is not always in a way comme il faut to accept such money. I believe that is a wrong attitude. But what we are discussing here is whether the state's money should follow the private ones. I got some very specific play from the representative Grimstad. One was whether these foundations should stop giving gifts. No, of course not. They cannot stop giving gifts, because it is in their very purpose that the money should be distributed for good purposes. The government's gift-enhancing scheme does not matter whether they give the money or not, because they are required in the foundation's core and purpose to give away this money. If we're going to lubricate thinly all over the country, ask the representative Grimstad. No, we're not. We have to lubricate thickly across the country, because the whole country has to take part in a good cultural life, not just the big institutions in the largest cities, which get the biggest gifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2086	The representative Kristin Ørmen Johnsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2091	I hear here from the speaker's chair that the Workers' Party may be a little sloppy in terms of the gift-enhancing system. It's not just the big institutions that get money. We can document that well. In fact, there are more institutions now getting money than before the gift enhancement was used. I've traveled quite a lot around Norway before the Corona arrived, and the first thing I hear when I meet institutions is that they're very happy about the gift enhancement scheme, they get a 25 pst. plus. They say they actually didn't think they'd take a little look at whether there's any private people who want to give them money. Among other things, the West Fossen Art Laboratory for Societal Art says that they hadn't thought about it until they applied for the Saving Bank Foundation and got money. It's actually possible to do that, so I hope the Workers' Party can take another re-thinking around private.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2098	The gift-enhancing system would like to end these debates, and some traditions would have to be upheld. But I think it's very sad when we have representatives in this room and on this pulpit who almost use 'rich people' as a curse word. I think it's absolutely amazing that people make money, that people build businesses around the country. When these companies also want to contribute to the community, by giving money to a good project that an institution wants to implement, I think it's absolutely amazing. Whether it's a savings bank foundation, whether it's a rich mountain man – it's not that important to me. What matters to me is that we show that we want to have a local ownership of the cultural life that's out there, where people live. Making good projects that people want to support is totally unimaginable to listen to. I'm a proud defender of the gift enhancement scheme, and we will continue to be. One could imagine a scenario if it were the other parties who are in opposition in this hall, who governed cultural policy as they boast that had become so much better. I don't know -- even more people who had gotten even thinner wallets because they were supposed to be taxed in whole, companies that had been charged taxes, taxes, regulations that would have made them less able to make as much money, in the crisis we're facing today. It is almost incredible that we have this debate, but it had to be said.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2105	It's actually a pretty good ideological debate we end up with now, because what are we really talking about here? Well, the representatives Giske and Trettebergstien would like to draw these funds into this room and then spread them out. I guess that's a very good example of centralization. Instead, we have a number of decentralised regimes that sit around the country and carefully evaluate these projects, and then they contribute and get the state on board. This is widespread authority. That's probably why the Center Party is a member of this, while the SV and the Workers' Party are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2110	I don't think we have the greatest disagreement, but when you are accused in locals and in media countries and beaches around in posts of concern about the cultural life of Oslo only when you want to promote an important system like the gift-raising system, you get very provoked. I think I've had a lot of time since I entered the Stortinget, that Finnmark has been very low when it comes to applications for the gift enhancement scheme, and has taken it as part of my mission to inform a little more about this scheme of cultural life. I can see that there was very little information about this. I do not know whether this is due to the fact that most rapporteurs and councillors for culture have been from the Workers' Party and may not have wanted to bring this system to light, but at least I have made it my task to ensure that more applicants apply. I have been on the list of gift-enhancing applicants, and I see that every year there are new organisations that come up on the candidate list and that are applying on the basis of gifts they have received. I think more and more people are becoming more aware of using this scheme, and when I meet cultural life and we talk about getting private donors into the budgets, they might be more open to it today than you were before, just because they see that there are more natural contributions to culture also in North Norway – also in Finnmark – than it might have been before. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2119	Here it becomes absolutely necessary to clarify a clear misunderstanding. The centre party is not for the gift enhancement scheme. We have not, in this budget, re-prioritised from this scheme to other projects under the funds. One of the problems of the Center Party with the gift enhancement scheme is that there are very many small organisations, cultural houses and others who receive tipping drugs, when the scheme takes such a large part of the drugs. It's also centralizing. That's why we don't like this arrangement. I must also point out that I think it is very strange to hear the government parties say that there are no private or foundations – for that matter – that are interested in giving to culture unless the state throws money into the scheme. I think the private can be allowed to give money to culture regardless of whether we have an arrangement or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2127	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2144	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2161	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2178	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2195	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the allocated speaking time in the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and eight lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who may subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2206	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this year's budget. It took some time before we were aware of the framework, but after it was adopted, the committee really did work to put the budget in place, so thank you to the committee for that. The aim of health policy is to provide the best possible health for the most part. For the Christian People's Party, it is especially important to fight for more children and older people to receive the help they need when the need arises. Now, after a strange and very different year, we're approaching Christmas, New Year and a new year. In the budget for next year, which we are now going to debate, there are many good measures that are just about to take care of people's health in the coming year. I'm glad. We know that the long-term effects of the coronary apathy will only become visible in a while, but we have some indications, for example. how children and young people have felt. I am pleased that the appropriations for the child and youth mental health escalation plan continue, and that much is allocated to the municipalities, so that they can continue the important work to facilitate good and accessible health services both in school and in local communities. Although there's a lot we don't know, we've been given some signals as to what the situation is. There are several people who know about solitude, and the help phones notice an increase in attendance. That's why I'm glad that we in the budget are continuing an increased appropriation to Mental Health and the Church's SOS, so that they get the opportunity to be available to more people through what's probably going to be a long winter. It is crucial for continued high trust in Norwegian society that we have a strong civil sector with room for non-profit actors and non-profit organisations. Most sectors in Norway consist of a variety of actors, and the health sector is no exception. It is non-profit institutions that make important and innovative offerings in their fields, non-profit institutions that contribute to both activity, resources or just being a person to talk to when it looks dark. The field of health and care would be much poorer without the ideal and voluntary efforts, and during the coronary crisis, their efforts have been crucial to very many. The content and quality of care we provide to those who need it is essential for quality of life, security and dignity. Elders in need of help shall be confident that they will receive the help they need when they need it. Therefore, solutions and measures need to be adapted to individual needs. We continue to be ourselves out of life, and we need to have a care that covers the basic physical, mental, social and spiritual needs. The Christian People's Party wants a society that everyone wants. I am therefore pleased that there is now a system of equal opportunities for parents waiting for children, for example. with Downs detected during pregnancy may have the opportunity to meet families who have a child with e.g. Downs, to listen and learn and see what everyday life looks like. This has good experience in Denmark, and I hope it will be a strength for the information and guidance that Norwegian women should and should have access to. A technical amendment has been made to Framework Section 1, i.e. a proposal for Decision I, which will now promote a new proposal, which will replace you in the vote. The change is that it's moving 2.1 million. kr from Chapter 734, item 1 to Chapter 761, item 65 in order to increase the allocation of the State financing of the care for the elderly. So I'll take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2225	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2232	The lower price stimulates increased consumption, that's the whole point of the snuff fees, said the Cancer Association. We're very disappointed. Cheaper alcohol will threaten public health, said Actis, and added that the budget agreement was highly unsolvable. I could have continued with the statements of the Blue Cross, the Salvation Army, the Church's Bymission, which are all disappointed that the Christian People's Party has agreed to reduce the fees on, for example. beer, wine and snuff. The Christian People's Party has in previous negotiations when they were in opposition, the ability to put their feet down, for example. in the case of Sunday-open shops. This time they couldn't do it. They didn't put their feet down. They set the charges down. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2239	At least a public health argument shall not be used to argue for the tax reductions contained in the budget. It's probably trade, not to say border trade arguments that are why we're getting the cuts in this budget. This was one thing the Christian People's Party lost in the budget negotiations. Everyone who knows the Christian People's Party knows that lowering the taxes on alcohol or tobacco is not the Christian People's Party's policy. We're actually against that. But we had to get a budget in port. We were concerned about the whole budget, and I want to mention that an important matter was also to make sure that we put out 1 pst. of the budget for assistance to the poor of the world. It was also important for the Christian People's Party to be able to maintain the number of 3,000 quota refugees that we won, and where we didn't lose an inch.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2246	The resource-requiring system helps municipalities with nearly 11 billion. kr, I think it's now, to take part of the biggest expenses of care and care. Governments have adjusted the self-interest for the municipalities several times, and every time the Christian People's Party has reacted with disbelief, shock and anger. But when the Christian People's Party, as a government party, is involved in making budget proposals, it is staggeringly silent around the fact that self-interest is again being increased. What happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2251	It is absolutely right that in the case of self-interest, the Christian People's Party has had and has a great commitment. It is not all the things we gain through in the budget negotiations. I very much regret that we have not managed to stop or reduce the self-interest, but I can promise that the Christian People's Party will continue to do so so that the municipalities will release the additional burdens it is, where the state takes a greater share in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2256	I have always thought that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been close to each other in health policy, but after the Christian People's Party went into government, I don't see as many impressions of the Christian People's Party as I could wish. I shall not go into the taxes on alcohol contained in a budget agreement. I am thinking more about free treatment options, input-driven funding, health promotion model, etc. When it comes to non-profits, the Christian People's Party has got through something in the government platform, but we see that in Health Nord, they announce a wide range of drugs without a screen that everyone can apply for. It takes time to get a plan for these historic pension costs, which are not yet in place. My question is: What is the Christian People's Party's great influence in health policy, and is the Christian People's Party pleased with the ideals and arrangements for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2263	For the Christian People's Party, the non-profit sector has always been important to fight for. That's why, in Granavolden, we had a positive impact on the non-profit sector. That not everything is yet fulfilled – well, we're going to ensure that the non-profit sector gets a big focus in the future as well. Perhaps some of those questions should be addressed to the minister who, after all, gives letters of assignment to health businesses. I know that he has been clear on the requirements that we have had through in the government, but it must also be followed up in the regions. We're going to follow closely what's going on, because the victories we've got in the non-profit sector, we'd like to see them implemented, and that it's going to be part of Norwegian health policy in the future. The ideal sector assists with a fantastic health effort, and the health sector will be much poorer if the non-profit sector disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2268	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2274	How would Norway deal with a pandemic without a strong public health service – a service that does not ask how thick your wallet is, where you live, or whether you have private health insurance? Our common health service is the best bollery in a pandemic and against increasing differences. For the Workers' Party, the goal is a world-class public health service, which is equally accessible to all the inhabitants of our long country, who have enough buffer in their daily lives to deal with crises. Social inequality in health is increasing, and it's serious. The wallet and education determine to an even greater extent how long you can expect to live, and with how much sickness, pain and suffering. It's fundamentally unfair. Social health differences can be counteracted by policy priorities. And it is possible to prevent sickness and loss of health with effective and balanced measures, such as physical activity at school and a single meal during the school day. And what we in the Labour Party prioritise in our alternative budget is a total of 330 million. to such preventive measures. A strong solidarity of healthcare, which is managed according to the patient’s needs – not at the request of private providers – is our common insurance. That's the floor plan all on. If you get sick, you should be able to rely on the community to set up. We've been clear that it won't be more expensive to be sick in the middle of a pandemic, as the government first suggested. And we can't let the coronary apathy create new health crises. Too many people are waiting for treatment in our hospitals. In 2021, there will be a great deal of spending on drugs, mental health, rehabilitation and cancer, to mention something. The government's budget doesn't deliver well enough to resume the overall slowdown. It is therefore incredible that the budget agreement does not protect the hospital budget, but cuts with so-called ABE cuts. The working party has been very sorry about the chronic underfunding that has been going on throughout this government, the ambulance service, mental health protection and maternity care. We can no longer accept the lack of willingness to hire healthcare professionals throughout the job vacancies. That's why we're proposing 1 billion. NOK more for hospitals in 2021. A health service without enough professionals is short. Recruiting enough health professionals is a major challenge in several parts of the country. We're proposing 96.5 million. to build skills and recruiting in the districts and to give all midwives a full position. Elder care is facing a huge task. From 2025 the number of older people will increase rapidly. Recent figures show that the number of older people with dementia in Norway is higher than initially assumed, and it will also increase dramatically — more than we have so far. The working party proposes 100 million. kr to a step-up plan for staffing and full-time in the municipalities. Some people at work also mean more time and dignity for the oldest people in the country. In addition, we spend money on care technologies that make it safe to live longer at home, and on low-threshold services for people with dementia and their relatives. Locally, where people live, we find the decision – he or she, who treats 85 pst. of our patients to less than a tenth of the health budget. That's a good deal. The system gives everyone the right to their own medical specialist, but unfortunately there is still a crisis. And to say it just the way it is, our decision-makers work almost in their heels and go to the doctor's office for the little spare time they have. Then it goes without saying that it is difficult to keep them and get new ones into the profession. The working party is proposing 350 million. kr to shorten the number of patients per list, in a step-up over two years. It is also incredible that the budgetary agreement reinforces the fixed crisis in the middle of a pandemic by cutting into this ALIS system that ensures the recruitment of badly needed new registrars. That's the opposite of what the decision-makers, patients and municipalities now need. That's what I call a failure from a government that has committed itself to saving the firm system. Our mental health dries, and many are now socially isolated. Nevertheless, there are no airy promises from the government in this area either. In fact, if you have a district address, both low-threshold services and mental health protection are worse, and vulnerable children and young people are particularly vulnerable. That is why we believe it is important to strengthen our mental health services with a total of 250 million. kr next year. We think that's a required bet. It was before the pandemic hit, and the need has become even greater. The corona pandemic has affected the health, safety, jobs and economy of people all over the globe, and the most important task of policy is to create security – both for those who have been directly affected by the crisis and for those who feel insecure about their jobs and close family members who have been affected. And the pandemic hits common people. The state budget and the health budget must also give priority to ordinary people – a society that keeps people healthy and promotes good health and quality of life, those who work in healthcare and those who are patients and relatives. We have known for a long time that a new outbreak of infection was likely, especially due to recent months of import infection. The government has taken strict measures in our country to shut down the virus. The last wave came on surprisingly. Understandably, it took enough time to stick arms and legs, but this time we have no excuse for not seeing it coming. Unfortunately, the action packages that have been launched are not strong enough, and we cannot allow the Korona crisis to create new crises. In the hiking hall before this debate also came the news that state council Höie is now becoming the Christmas minister of the year. On Christmas Eve, there'll be a smaller number of vaccines. I think we're all happy about that. Now the important job is to get the first-round priority people vaccinated, and then the more demanding job is to get more vaccines and make sure that the municipalities are able to mass-vaccinate their inhabitants. We in the Workers' Party clearly show with our priorities that people's health is and becomes the most important resource in society. The balanced distribution of good health and quality of life among the population is essential for a sustainable welfare society where everyone can move towards their goals. I would like to address the proposals on which the Labour Party is included in the vote, and I would also like to make proposal No. 53, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2304	The representative, Mr Kjerkol, then drew up the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2311	In the article Kjerkol promises gold and green forests to the hospitals. One billion may seem to be very much money, but the transfers to regional health companies are well over 170 billion. kr, in which case the increase of the working party is about half a percent. So that's what separates a fantastic and a terrible hospital budget, if you're going to believe the Workers' Party. But it is clear that the Workers' Party now has to cancel many of its promises when they give no more than they do to the hospitals. Of that billion, 250 million will go to early ultrasound, and the approximately 650 million dollars spent by the Workers' Party in the patient's free choice of treatment must, of course, be used to give the same patients this treatment in public hospitals. Then there's about 100 million left. It doesn't stick to the Workers' Party's promises of ambulance services, food services or mental health services, to mention anything. What health promises should the Workers' Party cancel?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2316	This hospital budget, presented by the government, is not only in the lower ranks of the health care companies themselves, who have said that they need to re-enter vulnerable treatment and to take care of the inhabitants of a continuing pandemic. The number of regional health enterprises in need was between 8 and 10 billion. kr, and the government decided to hang up, was 6.5 bn. kr. So this isn't something the Workers' Party says first and foremost is the need; we close the gap that the hospitals themselves have said they need, a little bit more than the government, by 1 billion. kr. So I realize that it's tempting to go a little bit this year from the Right, because this comes in a situation where the government is actually adding rust to the hospital budget. We're actually in the middle of a pandemic. But it also comes to the top of eight years of chronic underfinancing of a specialist health service where the first reactions of the professionals at the time the pandemic hit were that we are not well funded for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2329	It is quite wrong that this government has chronically underfunded hospitals in the last seven years. On the contrary, we have strengthened the hospitals, we have arranged for more people to be treated, the waiting times are shorter now than when the red-green government crashed, and there are more people being treated. So the next year, too, there will be a growth in hospitals that is good in addition to the population change that we're going to get. But that doesn't change the fact that the Workers' Party has made rather tumultuous promises to the hospitals, to Norwegian patients, as it's obvious that they can't fulfill themselves. And then I'm going to ask the question again: You add a billion – that's another small increase compared to the budget that the Right and Government are delivering – but what promises are you going to cut out, when you obviously don't put money to fund them in their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2334	What's clear is what's the situation for the hospitals under this government. While this government has been sitting, ambulance bases have been laid down and centralised, food departments have not been able to follow up feeding women one-to-one, and in the local health company that I socialise, that lives in Stjørdalen, people have actually had to be quit, people have had to be decapitated. So one meets a slightly different reality when one asks the professionals on the floor, and when one sees how the offers are secured in the districts. So I would encourage Mari Holm Lønseth and Right to listen more to those who have their shoes on, and who also cried out when the country was hit by a pandemic. Much of the closure we experienced in our day was due to the fact that it was not certain that the intensive capacity would keep up with a major outbreak of infection in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2339	I'm very busy talking to those who wear the shoe, and then I'm busy talking to employees, but not least talking to patients, those who use the health care. This is why we in the government have made sure not only to strengthen health budgets so that more people get treatment and waiting times go down, but also to actually get more offers, which patients themselves can participate in and decide how to do. Not least, it has also been ensured that more patients are given the opportunity to receive follow-up earlier. This is one of the reasons why, for example: have chosen to introduce a requirement for midwifery skills in Norwegian municipalities, so that we know that women receive early follow-up once they have become pregnant, and then have the opportunity to identify challenges in pregnancy in the past. But one of the things that really upsets me most about what the Labour Party is doing in its budget is removing the right that many people have to choose another offer if they want to choose a private offer. Why do you want to remove the right to free treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2346	I thought it was a good post about the midwife service, and I was ready to join in completely until then! However, in order to admit the representative Lønneth – whom I am very excited about – to answer the question, I would at least say that free treatment choices are not suitable for the midwife service. So that's not where you get the Labour Party votes. And Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2351	Then the cord shift is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2356	By 2020, health services have been tested — a test that they pass as far as possible. I want to take this opportunity to thank all the employees who have been extra this year to solve the challenges we are facing. They're the ones that pass this test. They have secured the country and give us faith that we will get through this. We're not quite in the goal yet, but it's actually in the right place to say thank you for your efforts, which they'll have to do next year as well. That is what this debate is about, namely the budget for 2021. The well-deserved reputation of employees is in place, but we have to remember in this debate that we are the most suitable for patients. This health budget is based on the project we started almost eight years ago, creating the patient’s healthcare service – getting help when you need it is important for both safety and quality of life. The most important thing in healthcare is not the system, it's the patient. Each patient shall be met with respect and openness. They should release unnecessary waiting time, and the Right believes that no decisions about patients should be taken without the patient himself. The treatment apparatus must be built around this. The patient’s healthcare means that the quality of treatment should be high and the waiting time as short as possible and that the patient should be consulted in all parts of the healthcare system. Patients shall meet with knowledge and respect. By means of schemes such as free choice of treatment, we provide patients with the option to choose the offer that best suits the individual, regardless of the size of the wallet. Ensuring good health and care services to all is a public responsibility. Health cows still need to be reduced and services need to be improved through new and better ways of working. We want to work to strengthen the skills of employees and ensure greater freedom of choice for users. Increased digitisation will release resources for more care while continuing to reduce health cows. The offer of the most vulnerable, especially in the field of drugs and psychiatry, is strengthened, and people who have lived a long life, but who have become nurturing, must be guaranteed a life of purpose and dignity. Health and care services in municipalities must be modernised and strengthened. We work for a comprehensive and coherent provision of health and care tailored to individual needs. It is in the primary health service, including: most have their first contact with healthcare. That is why we have started and are still working for a forward-looking fixed medical system. Here it is appropriate to thank the entire Committee for a good cooperation around this. A sound fixed medical system shall ensure good quality for all and meet the needs of each individual. Local health services form the basis for a good health service. Cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services is particularly important. The proportion of older people in the Norwegian population is increasing, and the number of persons with chronic diseases and complex care needs is increasing. This increases the pressure on the health sector. This is one of the reasons why we have introduced what we call a health community – a new way of working, which I think will produce great results. Several older people want to live at home and live active and independent lives with tailored services. Our goal is to ensure people a good and dignified care adapted to individual needs. The care of the elderly and caregivers is therefore further developed to provide all those who need it with an offer of quality and activity. It is a resource that should have an influence on the assistance offered to the dependant. Attention shall be paid to the fact that dependants may have several roles, such as both relievers, caregivers and treatment-course decision-makers. At a time that is especially demanding for relatives, the government's relative strategy is more important than ever. Work on mobilising volunteers and support schemes for volunteers that we have launched this year is also important. Today, more than 241,000 million are allocated. kr to health next year. In this health budget, we enable health services to handle the pandemic we face, by strengthening health preparedness. At the same time, I am pleased that this budget underlines the importance of catching up on other healthcare services, which in the name of preparedness have had to wait. It is a demanding and important priority. This budget builds on the objective of creating safe health and care services for patients. The waiting time for treatment shall be reduced, recruitment and competence increased. We support and ensure a future-oriented healthcare service by raising national eHealth developments and laying the foundation for significant investments in hospital buildings across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2387	In the next decades, the number of older people will increase rapidly. To put it simply, there are twice as many older people in Norway, but growth is even stronger among older people. The number over 80, 90 and 100 years is multiplying. It is a good thing that we live a long, good life, that life expectancy in Norway is increasing. It is also a fact that the need for good health care will increase, and it is the oldest who use healthcare the most. In the light of this picture, how in the world could the Right and Government come up with a proposal that halves the bet in the number of hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2392	If we had just said we were going to halve that bet, it wouldn't have been that good. It was put down because the municipalities this year have not applied so much, so it was adapted to the scope of the search that was this year. It has been signaled throughout that the sum will be increased in revision if it was too small. So this is simply a skin debate. Had the rapporteurs in Norway been aware of this system and actually used it, all the money had been spent this year, and then we had kept the system as it was. If the municipalities use the scheme, there will be more money, and get one over the number of applications that are in the new agreement, we'll be careful to fill up. It's important for us to expand, and it's the municipalities that are betting. The problem is that many municipalities do not provide enough care for the elderly. There all municipalities have a job to do to be better able to meet what comes from challenges when more people get older and live longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2397	In the revised national budget, the Progress Party received an average of 600 million. kr additional should be allocated to health establishments in order to re-establish the health cows that have occurred due to the corona virus, inter alia. through the purchase of private services. The progress party is not satisfied with that follow-up. Health Nord states that they will consider a greater degree of transfer of patients to private partners. Health Mid-points to the fact that two of the health care companies have made use of the free capacity of the private sector, and Health West is also continuing to consider extending it for new purchases, but they have not yet done so. In the budget unit, we have now agreed to grant a new 250 million. kr for the purchase of private capacity to take away health cows. My question goes to the Right Grandningsgruppe: Do you want to contribute to the success of the Advance Party in the Health Budget being followed up, and do your job to make the government understand that the funds we have committed to buying private capacity are actually used to buy private capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2402	On behalf of the Right Storing Group, I would like to say that there was little resistance to getting that addition. It's a good move. At the same time, the year has been demanding, for one has not known how the status was running. It changed all the way. When you're in a state of emergency, you change the operation, and then it's natural that the number of references goes down, it's unclear how things are. But I fully agree with the replicator that here we could probably use the others more. We could probably buy more, but it's easy to look back on. I would like to thank the Progress Party for always showing us the good arrangements we have, for example. free treatment choices, which are a good solution for using available capacity around the country. So this we're going to push on also from the big group, and I expect good cooperation on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2407	The representative of Stensland said in his speech that the most important thing in health care is the system and not the patient, and that the supply of drugs and psychiatry should be ensured. In the fall, children’s housing has provided a report on child and youth psychiatry, and that report is quite clear. That is a clear criticism. The name of the report, I should have had the BUP in a suitcase, indicates that there have been many plans and measures to improve mental health protection for children and young people, but despite all the plans, the problem goes on again. The report concludes that today’s mental health protection is not rigged well enough to fulfil the rights of children to the best possible health care. We also know that the golden rule hasn't worked for a year since Right came into the department. So I want to ask what does he think about mental health protection for children and young people. Is he happy with the bet the government has?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2412	First of all, I want to correct: I didn't say the system was most important. I said the patients were the most important, and it's like some of the things that separate our parties. We're not so busy with the systems, we're not so busy with who's implementing things. We're concerned that people actually get help. In light of that, I am very pleased that one has really strengthened the municipal part of this. One has provided psychological services in all municipalities. One has had a strong expansion of the first line service in schools. I'm very pleased with that, but this takes time. At the same time, young people are experiencing more mental health problems in large parts of the West. Today, however, the number of suicides fell in 2019. As far as I know, it's the first time in a long time, so we see an effect of this. But, of course, I'm not satisfied. I don't think anyone is fully satisfied with the state. That's why we're here, I want to remind the representative Top of, to do what's not good, better. There have been long-term challenges here, but I'm very pleased with the way the government has dealt with these problems, and we see that it benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2422	The Progress Party's alternative budget for 2021 is based on our ideology and our view of value. The Progress Party is a Liberal People's Party, and we believe that people should make the most of their own lives and their own economy. Norway is in a special situation because of its coronary apathy. This seems to have major consequences for 2021 as well. Our draft budget takes that into account. The party fights for a simpler everyday life for most people. In that struggle, freedom of choice and dignity are very central. We aim to remove the health cows, and we proposed a hospital package of 1.5 billion in our alternative budget. kr. The Progress Party has for months warned the government against unmanageable health cows if not all available capacity in the health sector is used along the way. The government, on the other hand, has closed free treatment choices for large parts of the pandemic period and, to a large extent, too little purchased capacity from private operators. I'm disappointed in that. Several hundred thousand people are in a pointless health queue waiting for treatment while private operators have capacity that they are not allowed to offer. This has been an important battle for the Progress Party, and I am therefore very pleased that we have achieved an impact on health cows, on the use of capacity by private operators, and that it is set at a further 250 million. kr for this purpose. The batch is hot trailers of free treatment choice. The free choice of treatment between public and private actors helps to remove health cows, reduce waiting time and ensure that each individual is given the freedom of choice to choose the one they think is the best. The Progress Party wants to strengthen this system and extend it to include CT, MR, X-ray and early ultrasound. This may be the last time I present a health budget to the Progress Party here in Stortinget, and my political heartchild the Biotechnology Act will be followed up in 2021. The progress party entered into negotiations with the government with a claim of 250 million. kr for the follow-up of early ultrasound and NIPT, in line with the decisions adopted by the majority in May 2020. After these negotiations started, the Health Directorate came up with its investigation and recommendation on how to introduce the changes. The fact that the budget unit is now presented without earmarked funds is only about the fact that the government has been clear that it is not the money that is bent. Now, equipment, training course and certification programmes are needed to qualify personnel. This process begins, and I am glad that Prime Minister Erna Solberg has confirmed that the work is not delayed, and that the party leader of the Christian People's Party has also guaranteed that they will not re-combat the matter. Private operators may authorise NIPT by 1 April 2021. Early ultrasound is introduced for women over 35 years of age from the autumn of 2021. NIPT and early ultrasound are thus phased in from these times until they become a permanent part of maternity care, from 2022. The economic consequences will be incorporated into the revised Spring National Budget. The Progress Party will ensure that the government is making full progress to ensure a better follow-up of pregnant women in line with the decisions we proudly received in the Swedish Biotechnology Act in 2020. Safety in the healthcare sector is crucial, and our citizens deserve to be taken care of when they get sick and need health care. For this reason, the Progress Party has presented a proposal for a representative to ensure a simpler everyday life for people with visual impairments, which will be dealt with in the Stortinget in the new year. We've had a throughput of $1 million. kr to this proposal, which concerns the automatic placing of persons suffering from visual impairment in contact with the already existing attractive rehabilitation offer. It is important to enable people to master their own lives and be able to stand longer in work. I'm sorry, President, but I have to finish now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2447	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2452	Earlier this year, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen said to Agderposten that it was so bad at one of our common hospitals that she had not allowed herself to operate in the Southland Hospital for anything. Nevertheless, she and the Progress Party have insisted on strengthening the treatment capacity of private hospitals in the budgetary agreement with the government. She says to Dagbladet that she and the Progress Party voted against the Workers' Party's proposal to strengthen the intensive capacity of our joint hospitals, because the Progress Party wants to let private actors contribute to solving intensive capacity and preparedness. So the leading health politicians of the Advance Party will not be able to operate in a public hospital, but will nevertheless use the community's money to build up private, commercial health actors rather than remedy what might not be good enough in the hospitals we own together. Why won't the Progress Party give priority to making our common hospitals even better than sending money to private, commercial health professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2460	The Progress Party has submitted an alternative budget to strengthen the hospital sector by 1.5 billion. kr. The situation in South Africa was not about money, but about the skills and qualifications of those employed. So at Sørlanden Hospital it was a doctor who didn't have specialization in what he was operating on. He has had several oversight cases against him and is now under investigation and investigation for gross negligence to have injured and maimed their patients. Does Tellef Inge Mørland believe that this is a good example of how public health businesses are able to ensure patient safety – that health professionals who are under scrutiny for gross negligence to have injured and mutilated patients are not withdrawn from operational service? So that was the situation at the Southland Hospital. The Progress Party proposed to change the law here in Stortinget, and the Labour Party voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2467	The President appreciates whether the word is addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2472	I continue with the same question. The Progress Party has just enough money for health businesses in its alternative budget, but the Progress Party prioritizes when they create a budgetary agreement with the government party is strengthening the private, commercial and ear-marked funds. Take the area from which the representative comes: If it is now, and it is absolutely certain, available capacity in Arendal and Flekkefjord, then the South is being ordered by the Advance Party to buy services from private. There will be zero extra dollars to increase capacity as a result of the pandemic, but one is required to buy services from private commercial operators instead of strengthening local hospitals in Flekkefjord and Arendal. Does the representative think that there is a policy she can go back to her area and boast?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2479	I am very proud that in my region, Agder, there is a private hospital, Aleris, which today carries out operations, CT and MR without waiting. And I am glad that the cancer patients who should now have started their screening program or started the treatment, now do not queue to get started, and that we therefore buy the capacity that exists. I disagree with the representative Toppe that this is about depriving the public hospitals. To a large extent, private actors are able to relieve public hospitals and thus ensure that patients get through to treatment more quickly. And for every single person who doesn't stand in a health queue, the Progress Party is proud to have contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2486	The progress party and SV have agreed to help people who have been injured in the hospitals. Now the Progress Party, together with the government, had an opportunity to strengthen the arrangement to help these people. What has the Progress Party done? They've cut the patient damages. They have cut back on measures to address drug shortages. The Advance Party and the government have also cut off research into new medicines, they have cut off the complaint body for healthcare, and finally, something SV thought the Advance Party would lift, they cut the money to the Older Ombudsman. Why did the Progress Party choose to cut into these schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2491	Firstly, the SV and the Progress Party have agreed to ensure that health professionals who are grossly negligently negligently harming their patients are removed from operational service, and I am pleased that SV supported the Progress Party in that proposal. There will be new occasions when we can form a majority on this matter in Stortinget. Then I am glad that the Progress Party has presented a very ambitious health budget. I record that SV has actually chosen to cut their health budget by 243 million. kr, as far as I can read. It is exciting to see that SV is probably proud that the Progress Party has had such a great impact on this health budget. We ensure that patients are treated more quickly, we strengthen care for the elderly, and we do a lot of good that I am sure that SV is really satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2498	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2503	In a situation where the corona pandemic affects our entire society, our lifestyle, our business and our health care system, there is one thing that stands out as more important than anything else, namely health and income security, health security for everyone, preparedness for the whole country and prevention. Per Fugelli said it like this: ‘The health promotion and prevention work in Norway today appears to be one-sided towards the individual.’ And on the other hand, ‘You are your own health care provider.’ He goes on to talk about the following: Politics is about distributing. When we distribute living conditions – income, work, education, housing, food and the environment – we also allocate framework conditions for health. But politics is more than distributing bread and money. Politics is also about willingness to distribute non-material values such as freedom, security, dignity, meaning and belonging. Policy is to distribute and manage a human vision and a social climate that has direct consequences for human ability to maintain health. Therefore, prevention and health promotion must be integrated into political theory and practice. So the founder of social medicine, Virchow, was right in claiming that politics is nothing but medicine at all. The Coronapandemy has shown us the seriousness of these words from Birdelli and the importance of health care preparedness for our common security. If the health service fails on the basic preparedness, it also strengthens its confidence in the authorities. The corona pandemic has shown the value of a strong, public and decentralised healthcare system with enough capacity and good competence. The centre party has been particularly concerned with the consequences that the pandemic has caused for the most vulnerable of all of us, the elderly, who have been isolated from their family and loved ones, and who have had to die alone. The central party prioritises 200 million in its alternative budget. Just for a specific package to ensure the supply of elderly people in hospitals and in home care during the pandemic. The centre’s three main health priorities in the next year’s budget are a rise in the hospital economy and emergency preparedness, a strong commitment to mental health and care and a clear prioritisation of medical and care services. The central body strengthens health care and patient care in public hospitals by 1.1 billion. NOK 2021. We will develop local hospitals, have safe ambulance services with short response times and ensure decentralised food supply with defensive personnel and follow-up services. We suggest ear-marked means to build up midwifery services in the municipalities. We do not support the establishment of a new hospital in Gaustad and oppose the closure of Ullevål. The central party will liquidate the government's privatisation reform Free treatment choice, and with the proposal of the Center Party, hospitals will be shielded from government's efficiency requirements through the ABE reform. We will not only give the hospital sector an increased framework, we will also change the funding, where we will reduce the share of input-driven funding, and we will provide framework funding for mental health protection and food supply. We will also abolish the system of neutral VAT in healthcare businesses, which is an incentive for the launching of services such as health care. Purity. Back to Per Fugelli's words: Politics is about more than distributing bread and money. When the Center Party wants more framework funding, it's also about what values we think our healthcare system should represent. The market direction in which this government has led the public health system is wrong, where patients, diagnosis and treatment are assessed according to their profitability. Standby does not pay off in such a model. The centre party will take the subject back to the health sector. We want to phase out the health service model and introduce a leadership and trust reform as an alternative to government efficiency reform, increase the competitive outsourcing and privatisation of our public health services. The scheme is the foundation of the municipal health service, and the medical system and medical care system are now in crisis. In recent years, fixed tasks have continued to be new without the corresponding strength of resources. Young people refuse to choose their permanent job because of the high work pressure. Medical care is also provided and is consistently operated on the basis of extensive exceptions in occupational health and safety laws. This, of course, does not allow a fundamental national health protection to operate in the long term. In the fall, the withdrawal of 35 medical officers in strike led to a national risk to life and health. In the 2021 budget, the Central Party will give priority to 400 new start-ups in the fixed-line schemes, known as ALIS. We also put in place local authorities to secure the medical care system in districts with specific challenges, and we create support for municipalities that will try new recruitment measures for permanent workers, such as the local authorities. by offering permanent wages and salaries. Psychiatric health care and care needs to be strengthened. The Central Party proposes 300 million. kr in ear-marked funds for increased health care activities on drugs and psychiatry. That's necessary because the government's tool, the golden rule, hasn't worked in any of the years while they've run Health-Norway. The Centre Party will give priority to the development of the supply of child and youth psychiatry and district medical centres. We provide additional resources for health care in child protection and ear tags also provide a special focus on the provision of health in Norwegian prisons. In addition, the Centre proposes an increased commitment to drug use and mental health in municipalities of 100 million. kr. We use ear tags for health care professionals in school health services. We strengthen the drive for user and family work and the desire to prevent addictiveness and gambling, and we also increase the appeal to ROS, the counselling service on eating disorders, so that they can become a national offer. Before the care of the elderly, the Central Party's top priority is a strengthened local economy, with 3 billion. kr. We want a boost in the activity and content of care for the elderly and also suggest strengthening the financial system to establish the kitchen at institutions for the elderly, by 30 million. kr. We also propose 20 million. kr to day activity sites and 10 mill. kr for home rehabilitation. We also give Activity Friends, under the auspices of the National Association for Public Health, $5 million. kr in additional support, and we strengthen the dental supply for elderly and other priority groups by 40 million. kr. The government's budget proposal says that the number of annual works for activists is reduced by 19.2 pst. in the years 2015 to 2019. This is a group that is being deleted from our health services, and I think that is really very worrying – at a time when the Storting says that we should get more activity and content in the care of the elderly, the activists disappear. The center party wants to establish a special investment of 30 million. kr as an incentive scheme for municipalities that will invest in the multidisciplinary recruitment of activists, but also such as music therapists, logo-peders, etc. In addition, a strong focus on regular health education is given to the centre. We propose 100 new study places before medicine and 75 new starter settings for patients in hospitals, so-called LIS1 settings. In addition, we propose 600 new places of study and further training for nurses, midwives, intensive nurses and health care providers, because it is now time to strengthen our core wall and secure national education for health professionals, when we see how a pandemic can affect our country and health care system. The centre party will, through a clear public health policy, reduce social health differences. We want to use the school as the public health arena. All children and young people must have about an hour of physical activity in school every day. That's what we've had in Stortinget, but the government doesn't follow up. We want to re-establish a free fruit and green scheme on the youth ball and on the combined schools. This was the first day's government removed when they took over the government offices in 2013. We'll have a rematch on this. We're increasing the effort to facilitate outdoor life. In addition, we have a commitment to antibiotic resistance. Antibiotic resistance is called the health system’s climate crisis. In 2021, the Centre Party prioritises a specific effort to combat the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. We also propose a pre-project for the national production of medicines and vaccines. Finally, I would like to make it clear that we also support people's greetings by not reducing tobacco and alcohol taxes, we do not cut sugar and chocolate fees, and we reverse the liberalisation of the tax-free system introduced by the government in 2014. We cut the funds to Akson – I will come back to it in another post – and we also do not support the introduction of VAT obligations on alternative medicine. We will support the loose proposal put forward by the Labour Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2554	The centre party says in its alternative budget that they will end free treatment choices even though we know for sure that free treatment choices have reduced health care queues. We can say that we know that free treatment options work, because this was introduced by today's government, and because this offer has significantly reduced health cows since the red-green government went off. We also know that free treatment options are highly valued and mean a lot to patients, not least those who are struggling with alcohol or mental illness. The centre party says they want to remove free treatment options, but they don't say anything in the budget proposal about what they want to replace it with to keep the health cows down. My question to the Center Party and Kjersti Toppe is then: Will the Center Party replace free treatment choices with completely new offers, or will they go back to the same offers given to patients under the Red-Green Government, which gave longer queues?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2561	I thought the representative should be a little careful to establish that the health cows have been reduced and that they have been reduced due to free treatment options, because there is also a new way to register health cows, where one is now in a queue for an assessment, while one was in a queue for treatment. So there's a debate in itself. When it comes to free treatment options, we will replace it with a strengthening of public health services. We will replace it with a system called free hospital choice, so that the patient can still choose where to treat from available and waiting lists, and that one can also be offered to private people. We want private to be a supplement, but it has to be the public that decides what time it's important to make an agreement with the private, and where, and not like now, that they have free establishment in Health-Noreg and are funded by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2569	In the Central Party budget, we can see that health businesses are strengthened by 1 100 million. kr. All of these means are earmarked for the Centre Party's own priorities. In other words, this is not to be regarded as free money. At the same time, the Senterparte is cutting 600 million. in health establishments. This means that there is no means for those patients who are currently being given free treatment options to expect to receive an offer in the public health system. For that, the health care system is missing 300 million. kr. We know, as I said, that free treatment is an important offer, not least for people who are struggling with addiction or mental illness. My question to the Center Party and Kjersti Toppe is: Which patient groups lose their offer will the Center Party give priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2576	Here I think the representative Larsen must have misunderstood our budget, because we're not cutting 600 million. kr, we'll re-prioritize them. $300 million. Dr who is in free treatment options, we are adding to a strengthening of the public hospitals, so patients of course get their treatment. We know that healthcare professionals have spent a billion dollars. kr at the temporary employment agency. We think that's the wrong use of money; so we re-prioritize them to make own subpools in public. It's getting cheaper, and it's getting better services. Nor have we promised the introduction of e.g. early ultrasound and the cost of a lot of money and health professionals, which is now in the government budget. So we also cut supply, which means that health care businesses are going to have a better economy. We have one billion. kr more, and that's actually the way it is. It means a better hospital economy for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2585	Right now, the Health Directorate is rolling out a wide-ranging and certainly very expensive campaign aimed at foreign environments that have not received Norwegian disease protection rules. There are good reasons to claim that this campaign is going to save lives. But in its alternative budget, the Central Party will cut the Directorate's information budget by 20 million. kr. So the representative says Toppe in a newspaper post that it should not be cut into the funds for pandemic information, it should be cut into the health board, about fruit and green, which Toppe will live – without me fully seeing that her voters understand so much of it. So my question is, is the representative saying that in the middle of a pandemic, it's reasonable to cut 20 million. kr of the Health Directorate Information Budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2592	It's quite right that we cut into an information system in the Health Directorate that just goes on diet. It is an ear-marked system that goes to diet, not the other thing that goes on pandemics and stuff like that – so here the representative must be inferior. One can go in and look at the post office, that's what this is all about. And when I read this again today, it actually says that one should inform about healthy diets etc. One should also inform about why it is not good to use too much alcohol and tobacco. I agree with the representative that if we had introduced the same cuts in tobacco and alcohol charges, we should have increased this item, because then we need more information, but we think it is more important to prioritize fruit and vegetables in the school than to tell the kids about what is healthy diet.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2599	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2604	I'm very happy that we get vaccines in December, but the vaccines aren't being self-inflicted – we need health professionals, and we have a crew crisis in the health sector. The SSB and the National Auditorate have looked at the matter. With today's policy, we will lack 27 000 health professionals and 28 000 nurses in 2035. It's health professionals who save our lives, who take us in when we're at the sickest. They're the ones that loose us through the pandemic. It's time to solve this crisis and make sure that as patients we get the help we need. I have seen healthcare from the inside when I was very ill. Health professionals ran back and forth to try to help everyone who needed help. We know that many employees flee the health sector. One out of three report excessive workload — and that was before the pandemic hit Norway. Two out of three health professionals and nurses work part-time, and many people want a full-time job, but do not. We need to stop the manning crisis in the health sector. SV suggested 1 billion. kr for hospitals One hundred million. kr earmarked several full and permanent positions in hospitals 110 million. SEK for educational positions in hospitals, so that more students can get practical places – then we get more nurses a number of trades unions, such as health professionals and health Secretaries 5.5 B.C.E. SEK to municipalities so that they can hire more people who can look after the elderly; I have been very sick and suffered many small blows. I couldn't go and I couldn't eat. But the worst problem for me as a politician was that I couldn't talk. My husband, Sebastian, was sitting at my bed in the hospital, but I couldn't say I loved him. I felt trapped inside my body. It's not just me who's had it like this. There are many hundreds of thousands who have problems after illness or accidents, who need rehabilitation to go again, talk again or other things they need to get help with. I thought Norway had good rehabilitation for everyone. That's wrong. We have good people, but the state gives very little money to help those who need rehabilitation. That's what SV will change. SV proposes a new scheme of fixed wage subsidies to municipalities for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. People have to get the help they're entitled to. Because I've been on the Health Committee and have a strong family, I knew what rights I had. This gave me the help I needed. But it's not okay that only those who understand the system should get the help they need. We have to change the system in order for everyone, not just the few, to get help. Then we have to hire more people, but also look at the rights: we have to make sure that the rights are real, as SV suggests here, not just paper rights. In 2014, there were 112 registered cases of lack of medicinal products in Norway. Under this right-hand rule, it has session to 1,242. The government hasn't secured our country with drugs. SV supports that we finally get emergency stores with medications. SV has proposed this before – before the pandemic hit Norway. It doesn't solve all of our problems, but it's a start and part of the solution. The SV also proposes StatMed, with the state production of medicinal products and a number of measures to strengthen the national pharmaceutical industry. Then we can secure the country with more drugs and get more jobs. We're in a pandemic, but we know there's going to be a worse health crisis. 750,000 people die as a result of antibiotic resistance, and more and more people die every year. If antibiotics don't work, it's completely impossible to operate on those who have cancer, who need surgery, and a scratch wound can kill you. I'm afraid not everyone can get antibiotics when they get sick. Therefore, SV has prioritised the fight against antibiotic resistance instead of cheaper chocolate, which this government and the Progress Party prioritise. SV suggested better diagnostic systems in hospitals to start vaccination programmes for all adults, which will make fewer people sick and thus use less antibiotics; earmarked for research to work against antibiotic resistance SV has been given the red-green parts on a plan against antibiotic resistance that we want to send to Stortinget. The last part of my post must be about mental health. We're talking about viruses, treatments and vaccines, but many people have forgotten that the pandemic has led to a mental health crisis in our country. Seven out of ten mentally ill people say it's gotten worse in the Corona era. They tell about more symptoms, more intoxication, suicidal thoughts and triggering trauma experiences. Many are lonely, and when we talk about families having to be at home, many forget that many families are just one person. They're alone. Day centres are closed, and the majority in this room voted against opening up churches and other assembly houses, which is the only place many can go to to to see another face. We had major mental health problems before the pandemic hit Norway — now it's even worse. SV suggests, and we hope several parties will join in, a crisis package for mental health care: 300 million. kr to low threshold measures in all municipalities 350 million. SEK to the specialist health service for mentally ill and multiple user-guided beds a large lift of 30 million. kr for students and students for better help when we know that many of them are very alone SV suggests that strengthen our common health care strengthening the municipalities of better care for the elderly; Strengthen rehabilitation and rehabilitation, including rehabilitation after covid-19 introduce food and physical activity in all schools; improving mental health protection in hospitals and municipalities; tight holes in the welfare state and that dental health should be covered by public health I'll take up all the suggestions for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2702	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2709	I would first like to take the opportunity to boast a little bit of SV's policy, because, like the Right, Nicolas Wilkinson's party has been in the forefront of developing a new and better drug policy, where the aim is harm reduction rather than punishment. Therefore, it is incomprehensible to me that SV is opposed to a solution that gives power and authority to drug users who want to become drug free, to choose for themselves what kind of care they want to use. Since 2015, more than a thousand Norwegian patients with drug problems and mental illness have been using free treatment options to get help with mental health protection and drugs. I understand that there are ideological differences between the Right and the SV on the free choice of treatment for somatic health services, but I really cannot understand why one can disagree with the fact that drug users themselves are going to choose the drug supply they themselves want to use, when we know how diverse drug users are, and not least what offer they are offering. Why is it that this freedom of choice, which is so important to many, will be deprived of drug users?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2716	It's very good that we can talk about the drug policy. There are comments on the State budget to reduce overdose deaths, for example: using fentanyl test strips, which are not supported by the Right, and that people do not have to pay self-interest when they are to receive help. Right wants it, SV suggests removing all self-esteem for those who are being treated for intoxication. We want to remove this arrangement so that people can choose a logo on their shirt. We want to use this money to hire more people. We want more people to choose which institutions they want to be in, but it's important to hire more people, not that people use private services. It's not freedom of choice, it's just a logo on the shirt.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2723	After eight years with SV in government, we had a total self-interest for them with the highest health costs, of NOK 4 660. From next year, the ceiling is just $2,460. SV usually screams at the highest every time someone has to pay something, but just when it comes to excess for the sick, SV suggests the highest roof of all the lots here. Is SV proud of this first place?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2728	I would like to praise the Advance Party for negotiating with the government to cut off the self-interest. We had a hearing, and the organizations said it could be a maximum of NOK 2 900. SV has followed it. But we had to prioritize the money. And the government and the Advance Party have cut off the disability. They have cut the AAP scheme for the most vulnerable. They have cut off many of these schemes for the most vulnerable, as we have prioritised this year – that they will get this money. I would like to praise the Advancement Party for having reduced self-interest, but I hope that they will also use the power to help all the other vulnerable, for example. the disabled or the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2734	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2739	The last budget debate in this period gives cause for concern. I've been looking at my posts from recent years, which is kind of a chronology of numbers and budget lines. Let me start this year in a slightly different way and talk about three words that stand as pillars of Left's policy – including in the area of health. It concerns freedom, community and cooperation. At the end of August this year, as an observer, I attended a week at a drugstore in my county. There I shared tables and therapy sessions with 30 patients with drug addiction – all with their unique history, all with sad fates in their luggage, some with severe traumas after mistreatment and abuse in childhood, others because at some point in their lives they had let the rush take over. They had all opted for this institution because the rumors had reached them that this very place was innovative, well-run and with a treatment that had not come of itself, but that was the result of a work of a addict with a peculiar talent to care for others in the same situation that he himself had once been in – a person who had in addition nose for organization, management and economy. Eventually, the institution had become part of the public offer of multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. In the course of the week, I got the pleasure of getting acquainted with psychologists, psychiatrists, shape and environmental therapists, as well as a ground crew of dedicated and competent staff. Now this institution is establishing a similar offer in the West and is looking at the possibility of establishing itself elsewhere in the country as well. The review tone among the patients was: if I fail with this stay, I will never succeed. Then, of course, we can debate forms of therapy and directions in psychiatry and drug treatment, but what I experienced this week can hardly be compared to something else I have experienced in cooperation and community, both in the case of therapists, and in the case of patients. But most importantly, freedom – the freedom to choose the place of treatment and the freedom to organise the place based on idealism and motivation to create something new. Some 15,800 patients were registered in Norway in 2019 using this free choice. The proportion has almost doubled from the previous year. That's good. However, there is a disappearing small proportion of the number of patients in the Norwegian specialist healthcare service, which is now approaching 1 million per year. However, the increase in FBV patients tells me that the need for free treatment options is changing and is of great importance, especially in the area of drug treatment. There are strict rules for which institutions should be able to participate in this scheme – administered by Helfo. For admission to these institutions, a publicly approved specialist must carry out a rating assessment. It is not the case that the FBV institutions are guaranteed a number of patients. They must prove to themselves, every day, that they have made themselves worthy of the patient's trust. And then it might be necessary to add: of course, the patients' economy has nothing to say for their choices. So there are parts of the Norwegian political fauna that will end this treatment offer and places similar to what I was at. Why? Because, in fact, there are people who have created a living to develop forms of treatment and leadership, just as machine operators or weight companies do, in healthy competition with the public. They will liquidate freedom of health in their Norwegian version, i.e. as a mix of private, non-profit and public operations – a mix that has proven to be very successful. We now have many examples of managers from private businesses taking important public positions, and similarly – doctors, therapists and caregivers choosing private institutions because it gives them a better working environment in new communities, new professional challenges and more flexible working days. This is obviously more health per invested krona. For my first three and a half years at Stortinget, I still have the good fortune to understand the obsession that parts of the opposition have with this model of freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2763	I was the case rapporteur for a matter that we dealt with quite recently, and that was the aggregation of self-participations 1 and 2. We went for the law change, it was a broad consensus about, but we had a prerequisite, and that was that there had to be money, 1 billion. kr, so that this did not mean that we set up one group of diseases against another and put on many a significant increase in prostheses. Then there was a rescue operation under the direction of the Progress Party in connection with the conciliation, and I want to say that we too from the Workers' Party tried to make a little pressure, so it was a happy solution in the end. But why was it so important for the Left to impose significant increases in the cost of disease in the middle of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2768	Now it's always been important for the Left to get these self-shares combined. It was actually the Left who introduced that idea, I think it was a townchild of Mr. Hagebakken who did it in his time in the Health and Care Committee. I was not happy that we got increased expenses in total. Provenance neutral would be NOK 2 900. It was now lowered to NOK 2 460. That means a loss for the state of 890 million. kr. I think that's money spent. But it is important to point out that it is the government and the Progress Party that have negotiated until then. The government has therefore considered this to be a good measure, in cooperation with the Progress Party. I must boast of the Advancement Party, but it is the government and the Advancement Party that have got this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2775	Very briefly: Did I hear the representative Grimstad say that he thought the government originally proposed was bad? That means you've gone for a legal change, but then you've lost the budget case, and then the Progress Party will save you back in. Is that how it happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2780	The President is asking Hagebakken to speak to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2785	This is really not a zero sum game, I would almost say, what you win on one side, you lose on the other. This has been a win-win situation. There has been a win-win situation for the Left; there has been a win-win situation for the Government – and for the Advance Party. I believe this is a good measure. I think it is good that we have been cut off. I can stand up and mean it here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2792	We know that the government works to build Gaustad in Oslo, an expensive hospital that many people don't want. Oslo Municipality has decided that they do not want it – the majority of Oslo City Council. It's a pandemic, and the majority in Oslo doesn't want it. It costs a lot of money. SV has suggested that we rehabilitate Ullevål and build Aker, which can help many of the others who live east of Oslo. Will the Left use the time well in government to stop this very expensive plan to build Gaustad, which many will use, with an infectious tower with many lifts, it's expensive, it's difficult – and instead rehabilitating Ullevål hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2799	I have to start by saying that the Left always spends its time in government rationally and well. The representative Wilkinson knows very well that the left has a somewhat divided relationship, to say the least, to the construction of the new hospital in Gaustad. There's a lot of reasons for that. This is a project that is now going to go far into the future. And even though I want it to be the same government that stays in this time, I wouldn't be surprised if there was another government – or maybe two – in between. I'm pretty sure we're going to see major changes in this project in relation to what it looks like today, but now the matter is really in Oslo City Council, and then we're going to see if the government finds reason to go to state level to do what the government thinks is necessary in Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2806	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2812	Health crises show the need to strengthen our common public health system. That's what Red goes in for, to ensure equivalent services to everyone, either one has little or a lot of money, either one lives in Finnmark or in Oslo. Instead of the government's privatisation and the two-part division of the health system, we will strengthen the common well-being that we all depend on, most of all those in our society who have the least. The government has made efforts to improve efficiency rather than ensure preparedness. The health service is also exposed to the government’s needs, known as the ABE reform. Instead, red is in favour of a strong strengthening of both hospitals and the municipal economy. That's what's needed, because there's a big gap here. We will also replace the use of rentals from recruitment agencies with permanent jobs and a public temporary work pool in health services to ensure that patients meet well-qualified health workers, who know the patients, and on whom there is less pervasiveness. It is also important for infectious diseases. When record numbers are now unemployed, the need to strengthen well-being is even greater. Health care needs to be cheaper, not more expensive. This applies to both prowess and dental health. Even before the pandemic, we knew that one in three says that they've exposed or just dropped the dentist for financial reasons. As a result, many who have poor advice end up with poor dental health. The teeth are part of the body and should therefore be treated then, also by the politicians. Red goes in for and wants public, free dental care. We're in favour of a dental reform that next year would have given over one million Nordics cheaper dental health. We're going to cancel out a total of 3 billion. kr more than the government of dental health. We want to give hospitals an increased basic allocation to strengthen their capacity. We also want to learn from the mistakes made by politicians at a rare time — or perhaps at a glance and often. The keyword there is Kalne's hospital. We need to learn from the mistakes made in other hospitals, and not plan for too little capacity when we are going to build new hospitals in the future, as it is now done, among other things. in Oslo, with the scandalous plan to lay down Ullevål hospital, got rid of 110 000 m 2 of very good hospital areas to build rather crowded and high on a small plot at the Rikshospitale. The employees – the doctors, the nurses and all the other recruitment groups – are opposed to this, and so are all trade unions. Seven out of ten Oslo residents are against it. Among the voters of all the parties, the vast majority oppose the laying down of Ullevål hospitals. We also know that the majority of Oslo City Council is opposed to the closure of Ullevål. Rather, they want us to build new hospital buildings on what is the largest hospital in Northern Europe, rather than following Bent Höie and the health bureaucrats' plan to demolish Ullevål hospitals, build high and crowded in the Rikshospital, and build more than what underpins today's plans on Aker. It is quite possible, if we keep Ullevål Hospital, to expand Aker as a local hospital for the Groruddalen without spending billions on the acquisition of a plot that was sold to Ivar Tollefsen when you were going to lay down Aker, on the Labour Party Guard, 13 years ago. The key to ensuring that people living in the districts of Stevener, Grorud, Alna and Bjerke, soon get their local hospital back on Aker, is to keep Ullevål, rebuild the Ullevål area and put away the plans that Bent Höie has cooked together with the bureaucrats in Health South-East. There will be a better offer faster than these giant plans, which have no support either in the Municipality of Oslo, in the employees or in the population of the capital. That's important to us, and that's also why we're going in to drop the appropriations to start the work on a plan that's going to be scrapped sooner or later.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2830	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2835	It was a good post about Ullevål. Another question concerns the United Kingdom’s plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions from hospitals. Norway doesn't have it. SV is a bit alone in the health and care committee, because we have proposed a plan for zero emission calls, minority proposal No. 48. I hope Red will support it. I would like to ask whether Red will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2840	I hope Red will do that. I don't have the entire overview here, but it seems like a sensible suggestion. It is not always the case in Stortinget that proposals that get few votes are bad. Often it's the opposite, that the best suggestions might only get one vote. But then, eventually, the Storting realizes that this was wise, and then they come after. Maybe this is also the case with SV's suggestions. I hope we can go in for that, but I can't give a guarantee over the table. We need to look into it carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2845	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2850	The government's draft budget shall enable hospitals to handle the coronary apathy in a good way. At the same time, we are facilitating that both quality and capacity can continue to be strengthened. We propose to increase the operating appropriations for hospitals by approximately 6.5 billion. kr next year. 3.5 B.C.E. kr shall cover exceptional costs incurred in hospitals as a result of covid-19. The draft budget provides room for increasing patient treatment by about 2.5 pst. This therefore facilitates the management of both the demography costs of 1.3 pst. and to resume lost patient treatment as a result of the pandemic. 250 million. kr shall, as a result of the budgetary agreement, be used to purchase services from private operators. In addition, EUR 200 million shall be provided. apply a temporary incentive scheme to stimulate hospitals to implement improvement measures that reduce waiting time. We're proposing about 2 billion. kr for the construction of emergency storage facilities for infectious disease protection equipment and medicinal products for specialist health care and the municipal health and care services. In addition, 650 million is proposed. kr to test stations at border crossings and testing in quarantine hotels to reduce infection into the country and to continue the compensation scheme for permanent doctors until 2021. Fortunately, the Coronapandemic will not last forever. Norway is part of EU vaccine cooperation and thus has access to vaccines in line with EU countries. There we have a very clear clarification today. The EU will probably approve the vaccine little Christmas Eve, the vaccine will be in Norway on Christmas Eve, and we can start the vaccination together with the other countries in the EU from 27 December. The government has set a total of 3.77 billion. kr for the purchase of vaccines and vaccination. Vaccination is part of the national vaccination programme. The vaccine will be free, and the State will cover the costs of vaccination for municipalities and health businesses. By means of the budget agreement, we allocate 400 million. to combat loneliness in the elderly as a result of the pandemic. With the vaccination that's about to happen, we're in a new phase. Both I and the Prime Minister have regularly explained the management of the pandemic during the spring and autumn of 2020. I will send a new letter tomorrow to Stortinget and ask to make a new statement early in the session next year. The Government has proposed to change the distribution of income to health regions. The new breakdown is implemented through the growth of income over two years. For 2021 it is granted 175 million. NOK to this. The government proposes to create 100 new medical educational positions. The increase contributes to meeting the current and future needs of medical specialists. The government has presented an important social reform: simplification and improvement of the free card system for health expenditure. Patients who currently have the highest health costs save a lot of money and get faster free cards. As a result of the budgetary agreement, the 188 000 patients in Norway with the highest health costs will save over NOK 2 170 per year on the change. The pandemic has taken a lot of our time and attention, but there is a lot of other important work going on in the health field. In order to strengthen the basis for the implementation of the quality reform for the elderly, Living All Life, the government is putting forward several new independent initiatives, including: Competence level 2025, Demenplan 2025 and the related strategy. The budgetary agreement also facilitates the construction of 2000 places in nursing homes or day-care homes. The state funding experiment for the care service is proposed to be extended by six new municipalities in 2021. The government is proposing 450 million. to the action plan for the general medical service. The aim is to provide an attractive and safe career path for permanent practitioners, good quality for all and a future with a team-based general medical service. Russ and mental health have always been a high priority for our government. The action plan for children and young people’s mental health is followed up by 170 million. kr. This autumn we have presented an action plan to prevent suicide. Here, for the first time, we're going to base a zero vision of suicide. We're proposing 20 million. kr for follow-up of the plan in 2021. The government is proposing 93 million. DKK for the work on the common municipal journal solution, Akson, and 189 million. kr for interaction step one. The aim is to improve the service and health of citizens through a knowledge-based healthcare service that exploits technological opportunities. 185 of 291 municipalities, representing 65 pst. by the population, has signed a declaration of intent, which shows a clear support and intention to participate in the further work of realising Akson.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2882	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2887	The vaccine is coming for Christmas. In my first post, I called the Council of State Christmas. You've always had a beard, at least as long as I've known you, but I think you've got a easier way down the pipe than the Christmas time we usually talk about, has! This leads to a lot of work in the future. As far as I understand it, approx. 5000 could be vaccinated after 10,000 doses now arrive in the country. It's a nice Christmas present for the 5,000 who get the vaccine. When can we expect more vaccines? How is the mass vaccination going to take place? And will the government review the criteria for who is to be vaccinated, when we have a better picture of how many we get available, and when?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2894	I have no plans to climb down any pipe this Christmas either! It is very gratifying that, through the cooperation we have with the EU countries, and not least with the support we have received from our neighbouring country Sweden, and with the good support of the other Nordic countries, we are part of the community that ensures access to vaccines in Norway as early as Christmas. We expect regular deliveries of vaccines in the new year – early in January. There is not quite a clear amount yet, and the municipalities will have their vaccination plans ready for tomorrow. We do not use the term ‘mass vaccination’ about the situation we are about to face, because here are the different target groups that are likely to be vaccinated gradually over time, and municipalities will be covered by their expenditure related to vaccination work.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2903	This gives light in the tunnel and hope, but we still have to be careful. Yesterday, at the Prime Minister's press conference, she was challenged with import infection. The Prime Minister pointed out that 10 p.m. of the coronary infection may be linked to imported infection, but guest workers represented only 38 pst. of this proportion. That means 3.8 pst. of these infections, and thus it is not part of the main development. There are very low numbers compared to how the health authorities describe the infection of imports as a problem. On 30 November, the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate wrote to the Ministry that ‘import infection, especially from foreign workers, has spread to all parts of the country within a few months’.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2910	We have no other numbers than those that come from our public health authorities. It is clear that import infection has helped to also increase infection in Norway, but it is not the case that only import infection can explain the second wave of infection. It is very difficult to say exactly how much of the import is due to travel other than work travel, but we know that very much of the travel activity is not linked to work travel. We just don't have a good enough number base to be able to say anything more about it than for example. the figures presented by the Prime Minister. A very large proportion of the infection we don't know where it comes from. What is important is that we have constantly taken measures to reduce the risk of import infection, and they have been reinforced as the disease situation in Europe has changed. Infective measures also in the case of travel and work travel must be proportionate and proportionate to the situation of infection.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2920	Poland is a country where many workers come from to work in our country. They today introduced a so-called national quarantine with very strict, interventional measures. Then my question is to the Council of State: Do you have an overview of whether it will still come to Polish workers in the weeks we have left before Christmas, and are you worried that those who are here are going to go home on Christmas holidays and come back in January? Do you have good enough systems to ensure that we do not have new outbreaks due to import infection, to the extent that health authorities stress that you have? I'll say there's a big difference between 3.8 pst. – to establish it at a press conference – and the uncertainty with which the Institute of Public Health operates. In view of the concern that most people now have about getting an infection in January, is the Council of State certain that the systems for dealing with infection from other countries are good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2927	The concern expressed by the representative has also been my concern over a longer period of time. That is why I have also given quite significant assignments to the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health to prepare us for this situation and to make proposals for action. Those measures have been implemented and are in the process of being implemented. It is both about information measures directly addressed to all Norwegian numbers abroad during the Rome Christmas season and to all foreign numbers on the way back, for example. via SMSes with information on the quarantine rules, which are sent to all foreign numbers now before Christmas, and on the establishment of the register system for all residents who will be in place very quickly after the New Year — as some examples. So probably my perception is that what's happening in Poland now, probably also will help limit some travel back to Poland. But we also need to understand that many who are in Norway and who work in Norway have a strong desire to return to their families. Many have been in Norway for a long time now, just to avoid going back and forth, and want to go home by Christmas – and we have to be prepared for that. Then it is important that we ensure compliance with the quarantine rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2934	The President asks that the speech be addressed to the President – even if she has some understanding when it is the beard of the Council of State that is mentioned that it goes directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2939	When the Progress Party was in government, we set up a grant scheme to get municipalities to renovate or establish the kitchen in a nursing home. Closeness to cooking and smelling food brings life satisfaction, and it is an important value and an important part of the everyday life of many elderly people living in nursing homes. The grant scheme has not been implemented in the same way as expected. The last figures I have received are that there are only three municipalities that have applied for it, Lillestrøm, Vindafjord and Voss, and despite the fact that the municipalities actually only take 30 pst. Of the bill for that, the rest takes the state. My question to the Council of State is: How does the Council of State continue to work to get more municipalities to use the grant scheme we have established together?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2948	I also believe that this grant scheme is very favourable to the municipalities, but as the representative is involved, we see that it is not necessarily used anyway. I think we have to work a lot wider with the meaning of the meals, the meal experience, and having closeness to where the food is made, that it is made at least in such a way that it helps to get good food smell in the room, and not least the competence of those who make the food, also represents in the team around the individual, especially when there are nutritional challenges. It is important for me to stress that this is not only about the kitchen and equipment themselves, but also about the competence that the cook represents in the team with those who work in healthcare, for example. providing food that is both well adapted to the individual’s situation and that provides good nutrition. We have to work all the way to get the municipalities to prioritize this, not least through the reform Life throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2955	I am pleased that the Minister of Health sees the value of getting the kitchen back in the hospital. It is important that we now work more offensively against the municipalities governed by parties other than ours, in order to get them to apply for this grant. It brings me back to another grant scheme we've established together. In the revised national budget for 2020, we set at 400 million. for measures to combat loneliness. We know that through this coronary apathy, it's the older people who have mainly been harmed. Many people have been alone and isolated for months, and it was important to take action to create social arenas for them. From the time we established that grant scheme, it went well beyond five months until the money was distributed to activities. Now, through this state budget, we have agreed to spend even more money to counteract loneliness among the elderly. How will the Council of State work to ensure that this money comes quickly and that the elderly quickly get an activity offer where they live?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2970	We work very actively to get the money out of activity quickly. It is true that some of the last money came out a little late, but I believe that quite a lot of the money came out quickly. It is not least thanks to the cooperation we have established with the Dam Foundation, which can also provide voluntary, non-profit organisations with money from the funds we have agreed with the Progress Party on both in the revised and in the state budget. It is clear that one of our challenges is that it is usually the Health Directorate that manages this money, and they are in a very demanding working situation in terms of dealing with the pandemic. There is some reason why we have also established this arrangement and the cooperation agreement with the Dam Foundation. I hope this money quickly comes out into concrete projects, as we have seen now, that there have been a lot of good, concrete projects under the direction of volunteers and ideals, which have just many good prerequisites for creating meeting places.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2979	In addition to the management of the pandemic, there is at least one big investment in the state budget that has received too little attention, and that is the promise to Akson. She's been threatened by spite of the fact that there's a real plural against this in Stortinget. This also has little support in the trade unions, except the Nursing Association. The medical association is opposed, the trade union is opposed, a comprehensive IT environment is opposed, and the research environment is also opposed. The National Audit Office has launched a review of both the journal project and the consulting service of the Directorate for e-Health. The council has already said that this is a project owned by the municipalities, and therefore it should not have a hearing, but KS says it is not their understanding, and they point out that national interaction solutions are a state responsibility. My question to the Council of State is, how can a responsible Council of State threaten such a project by failing in all the professional resistance and political resistance of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2986	I just have to say, I haven't threatened anyone with anything. In that case, it would be a very serious situation. I am very pleased that the bulk of the population today grants money that is needed to make good progress in this project. As I said in my post, this is a project that has very broad support in Kommune-Norway. Municipalities representing over 65 pst. by the residents of Norway – other than central Norway, which has its own project – have signed the Memorandum of Understanding. Despite the fact that Oslo hasn't, it's so upsetting. KS is very committed to our progress in this project and was very happy when the state budget was presented with money – and not least pleased that it is now actually being adopted. This is probably where the representative mixes Akson and the interaction solutions, Part 1, which is also in the State budget. There is a further development of established national eHealth solutions, which are also important for achieving the target image of one citizen — one journal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e2993	I know, of course, that the council has not believed this through, neither have I, but my point is that there is a real plurality against Akson in the Stortinget. The party of progress had cut back on this in its alternative budget, and then they didn't win. Then there's a real multiple against it. I think it's unfortunate when there's such a big investment in Health-Noreg, which gets consequences many years ahead. When it's so extroverted and has got so massive criticism of it, it's a big responsibility to take over for the Council of State when it's passed on. That it has great support in Kommune-Noreg, is a very funny way to look at this case. One should not talk to many municipal politicians who have dealt with the so-called intentional agreement: they went along with this because it was just an intentional agreement, there was no commitment, and many had many questions about it. So my question is again: will the Council of State come back to Stortinget with this matter when we know more about evolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3001	I want to encourage everyone to try to stay within the minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3006	Further progress in both the Akson and the interaction solutions, which are a further development of established national eHealth solutions, will be briefed on in the cases presented specifically in the State budgets. This is how the first phase is financed by this budget. Then it is clear that when municipalities are going to acquire this solution, a major part of the investment cost will also lie with municipalities. A premise for this has been that when we go to the next step, a large proportion of the municipalities have to say that they will be involved in that commitment. With this allocation and this state budget, Akson is a project that is essentially a municipal owned and driven project, while the interaction solutions, which are the responsibility of the state, remain the responsibility of the state. But, as I said, it is initially a further development of national eHealth solutions, which is absolutely essential for an up-to-date digital healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3011	I want to talk about the ISF. We had a majority at Stortinget together with the Christian People's Party to reduce it to 40 p.m., so that those who work in hospitals can use their knowledge to spend the money on patients. We in SV believe that there are those who work in hospitals who have more knowledge of what the money will do to treat patients. But the right has used the power of the government and has increased it to 50 pst. once again, that's half of all of this money. SV would like to remove the bureaucratic system, the ISF, so that people who work in hospitals and who work with patients can control the money more themselves. Why is the Council of State opposed to the fact that hospitals and those working in hospitals are spending and managing more of the money than the ISF?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3018	I really think it's the people who run the hospitals that have to control the money. It's important that they do, and I also perceive that they do well. Then I am very concerned that the professionals should make good professional decisions, which should not be governed by, for example. how the income system is structured. The ISF system is a well-suited system to finance health regions, possibly larger health businesses, but not a well-suited system for example. trying to manage health care priorities. It's very clear in what's kind of our management system. I am absolutely convinced that if one had been able to tap into the effort-driven funding, we would have come into a situation where fewer patients had received treatment, the waiting time had increased, and it had gone beyond the patients. So it is important to have the right balance between input-driven financing and basic appropriations. I mean, it's about 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3025	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3030	First, I want to pick up the thread from the cord shift that we just heard. I am pleased with the representative from the Progress Party that the municipality of Björnafjord has in its budget decision made use of start-up funds for the kitchen in hospital homes. Here we built a new hospital without the kitchen, but now we're going to fix it. New data were recently published on the incidence of dementia in Norway. Data from HUNT, the Health Survey in Trøndelag, show that more than 100,000 Nordics live with a dementia diagnosis today. That means that 100,000 families live with anxiety, strain and desire a grief over a disease that makes those we are happy about, change, become dependent on help and maybe don't recognize us when we come to visit. In addition to the findings that show that much more is affected by dementia than we have previously operated on, the study shows that the increase in the number of cases will be even greater than previously assumed. We've been talking for a long time about the occurrence of dementia going to double in the next decades. However, the new figures suggest that this is likely to increase by 130 pst. So from having over 100,000 with dementia today, we'll see an increase to over 230,000 cases by 2050. These are dramatic numbers, and there is a trend that coincides with the fall in the proportion of those who work. Now there are about 4.2 people working per pensioner. In just 20 years, that's going to fall to 2.9. But here's the big geographic difference. In some district municipalities, the ratio is actually 1:1. This will require both a stepping-up and a shift in the provision of services in the care of the elderly. My father-in-law was diagnosed with dementia in 2009. It resulted in both some search reactions and phones from people who had found a slightly confused man. At that time there was little talk about GPS and tracking as a tool for home dwellers with dementia, but in 2013 the then health minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, cleared up the code. Privacy restrictions were removed from the road, and more use of tracing technologies in the care of the elderly has been facilitated. Nevertheless, little has happened since then. When I asked about how many people used GPS in the care of the elderly, Åse Michaelsen, the minister of elderly and public health at the time, I got the answer that there were 611 people registered in 2017 with decisions on GPS tracking and follow-up from the municipality. Now there are certainly a few more since 2017, but I haven't found any more recent figures – the Council of State can expect a question from me about it in the New Year. But much indicates at least that things are still going too slow. The police and health services have also called for more GPS tracking. Every year people with dementia, both those living in institutions and those living at home, trigger search reactions. There have also been several deaths as a result of the disappearance of people with dementia. Last year, the government terminated the grant to day activities places for people with dementia. This was transferred to the local authority framework, but the amount corresponds to only half of the sites that had been set up as an objective to be established in Demenplan 2020. This year, the government proposed to halve the investment in hospitals, despite the fact that the need will increase in the next few years and that there are actually 200 fewer sick homes now than in the peak year 2012. There have been some new nursing homes, but we need both. All of these things right up the Labour Party in our alternative budget. With a health technology scheme of 100 million. In addition, we can provide an advance in the use of GPS in dementia care. With a bet on low-threshold services for people with dementia of 50 million. kr we can continue to expand the offer with day-time activities, and with a doubling of the number of nursing homes compared to the government's original proposal, we better equip ourselves to meet the large increase in the number of older people in the next few years. Finally, in this post, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Health for his efforts through this special year 2020 and also ask that he convey a greeting to all the competent employees in the underlying agencies, with whom we have become well-known in all the debates throughout this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3051	In addition to the next year's budget, we are today considering the health minister's statement on the coronary apathy from earlier this autumn. In this connection, I would like to speak on behalf of the government parties. 2020 is going to be a year we're late to forget. Norway has experienced many crises and major events in modern times. But we've probably never had a crisis that has required as much of each of us and our central institutions as the health and social crisis we've had in 2020. By nature, man is fortunately equipped with a number of functions that allow both body and mind to automatically enter a kind of crisis mode function when major hazards or threats occur. The coronary apathy, however, is not a type of crisis that can play on these biological and psychological instincts. In fact, some of this happened in March, when schools, kindergartens and other public institutions shut down, and each of us was told to keep us at home. Hamping the necessary goods at the shops, which was then seen, was very understandable in a situation where many knew about uncertainty and fear. I, the undersigned, who usually buys the day’s dinner at the store on the same day that dinner is to be eaten, was also suddenly in a situation where one bought toilet paper, hermetics and dry goods for the next two to three weeks, despite the fact that all the Norwegian grocery stores in a joint press release said they had enough food and goods for everyone. It is relatively easy to deal with an immediate crisis or danger, because you can just play on people's natural crisis instincts. What is difficult, on the other hand, is to deal with a crisis where these biological functions have to be switched off and on, depending on how an unpredictable crisis arises. Because although the top political authorities have probably been in some sort of crisis preparedness situation since early March, probably most people have had a lower condition over time, with a certain lack of crisis. Therefore, such an off-and-on-crisis or waiting-and-see crisis, which, after all, the coronary apathy, requires other means to deal with than an acute and immediate crisis. This is particularly true of a liberal legal society such as Norway, where authorities have to constantly consider measures to combat the crisis against other values that we also value highly — if not higher. The many freedoms, trust, privacy, economic and other social consequences of citizens, other direct and indirect health consequences and a general public crisis need to be constantly weighed against measures to combat a health crisis that is very serious and unpredictable. These are the reasons why different state authorities around the world have chosen different strategies and measures to combat the pandemic. In my view, Norwegian authorities have mastered this eternal crisis dilemma very well, but not perfectly. That's why the creation of an independent Corona Commission is essential. We need to know what has worked well, what has not worked well, and what we could be better prepared for. The coronary apathy is the most serious crisis since World War II. After the World Health Organization defined the outbreak as a pandemic, on 11 March this year, the government has taken very active action, which has had a major impact on all parts of society. In particular, I would like to thank each citizen in Norway for the efforts that have been made. Without each and every one of us having generally followed infectious disease prevention and regulation, their strategy and actions would not have been as effective as they have been. Then it is important to stress that the crisis has also taken place differently. Some industries have been banned by food, while many tens of thousands have been on leave and lost their jobs along the way. Others have had to isolate themselves for a long time, and many students and students have had to reduce their learning potential under the pandemic. But it's probably the weakest who's ever had the worst. Those who have already suffered from mental illness have suffered worse. Those who have already experienced violence in close relationships have got worse. Those who were poor and vulnerable have become even more vulnerable, this in stark contrast to the signatory, who have both retained the job and received lower interest on the mortgage. The Coronapandemic has probably reinforced already existing differences in society. This is important to work to correct the post-crisis situation. Finally, I would like to remind you that the crisis is far from over. Right now, fortunately, we see a decline in infection rates and an effect of the measures introduced at the end of October. However, the situation is uncertain, with the risk of a new increase towards Christmas and New Year. And even if vaccines are on their way, we probably still have to live in a pandemic far out in 2021 as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3074	We have worked a lot to ensure that the services of people with mental health and/or drug problems are comprehensive, accessible and individually adapted. It is about freedom of choice, reduced waiting times, better follow-up and strengthened lowthreshold provision in municipalities. The drug escalation plan was important and necessary. Much good has happened, but unfortunately the interest has not been the same in all municipalities. This means that your address will still be able to determine whether you succeed or not. The escalation plan has once again shown us that if we are to really succeed, we need the Progress Party model with state funding for the entire treatment chain. But such a device is, unfortunately, not a majority. The Progress Party therefore proposes to earmark 200 million in its alternative budget. to work in the field of alcohol and mental health. I'm also going to label 3 million. kr to Guts to strengthen their good work with addicts. There are many good drug treatment services, with good results, but which do not qualify to provide their services to specialist health services. These therefore face specific funding challenges. I really wish we could help these treatment sites in a completely different way than we do today. It's incredibly good we've got in place, and I'm very proud of it. Free treatment options, which have been crucial for many drug-free treatment options, naloxone nasal spray, a strong increase in the number of health care professionals and demands for psychological competence in all municipalities, are good examples of this. From the budget unit, I would like to draw attention to the establishment of an emergency unit against suicide with ten seats at Lovisenberg Hospital. The party supporting the merger of the ownership stakes was not satisfied with the level. We are therefore pleased that we brought the government to a significant reduction. After eight socialist years, i.e. in 2013, total self-employment was 4,660. After eight non-socialist years, total acquisitions are only 2,460. Hospice is also one of the things I took care of early. And here, too, it's happened very well. The budget proposes to continue the appropriations for actions aimed at increasing the competence of relieving treatment, further training in children's palliatives, earmarked funds for the Children's Palliatives Association and the dissemination of pre-consultation knowledge. In the budget, it is proposed to increase the appropriations for the hospice by 15 million. kr, to mark 30 million. kr to hospicet in Malvik and 30 mill. kr to children's hospice in Kristiansand. For several years, the party has been fighting for stem cell treatment for MS patients. In the budget unit, we've put in place a 20-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. In order to extend the Poor diet and poor oral care combined with the use of many different medicines and dry mouth can lead to very poor oral health. In 2019 only 18 p.m. by resident with home care examined or treated in the county dentistry. Many relatives contact them as they think that the teeth of their loved ones fall off a lot after they come to the hospital. It is therefore with extra excitement that I meet with the pilot project from the budget unit on a test project to strengthen the dental offer to people who receive home care or live in a nursing home. Projects are to be solved by using private dental providers in Agder and Rome in the Gulf. Unfortunately, we did not reverse the introduction of VAT on alternative treatment, as the Progress Party provided in its alternative budget. We support the fight against unprofessional actors, but not at the expense of the serious and all those who already spend a lot of money on getting the help they think is best for themselves. The alternative register does not work as intended. VAT is now levied without combining it with measures to ensure patient safety and quality in the offer provided. I am particularly concerned about how this will affect the mental health service. After eight red-green years without anything happening to the BPA system, there was a cheer all over the country when this came into place at the Right-Fremskrit party government. But the cheer did not last that long. Many municipalities have opposed the scheme. A public body has now been set up to investigate how to ensure the proper functioning of the schemes. It's sad that this is necessary, but I'm glad that it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3099	The state budget for 2021 was expensive. Much of that is due to the corona. Many of the measures I think there is a broad consensus here in the Chamber, but a good deal is due to the government's need to sign the Progress Party. It is possible that the Prime Minister may have had some grey hair during the last weeks' budgetary negotiations. At least the bill came in at least 18 billion. kr. So what do these budget friends spend their money on? Is it to strengthen the community at a time when the Korona has really shown us that the community of our municipalities and our public hospitals is a crucial defence agency? It's far too small, in my view. It is the purchase of private health solutions, cheaper snuffs and wine that have drawn the winning weight in the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party negotiations. In Arendal, we have a hospital we're very proud of, and we're in a torch for when it's necessary. In Arendal we have a heart ward that is Norway's best. Unfortunately, it does not get money under this government to expand as they wish, so that they could give more heart patients top treatment, and so that they could still be Norway’s best in five years and ten years. At the hospital in Arendal we have a therapy pool that has meant a lot to the quality of life of many chroniclers. Under this government water has been drained because it is no longer possible to maintain and operate it. What's the answer to these budget buddies? There is more purchase of private solutions in health care, not water in the therapy pool or bet in the community's heart department in Arendal. What is the Labour Party's answer in our budget? That's 236 million. kr more just to the Southern Hospital during this ageing period – to water in the therapy pool, to bet on Norway’s best heart department, because we believe in community, because we believe in security for everyone regardless of the size of the wallet. The Korona epidemic has shown us just how important it is. The Korona also reinforces what is already difficult in our society. Along with musculoskeletal disorders, mental ill health is the great villain in terms of sick leave in our country. I'm terribly worried about how people's mental health is going. The help phones are called down by people who talk about loneliness and suicidal thoughts. Kids down to the age of twelve are calling about this and needing someone to talk to about the most difficult things in life. Today, the Institute of Public Health came with new figures from a survey that shows that more people are struggling with loneliness and mental distress. Young and single residents labor most, one in ten students are lonely, one in four are not satisfied with their lives as it is now. The latest figures from 2018 showed the highest number of suicides since 2001. I'm worried about what the corona is now doing with people's mental health, and what the figures for 2020 are going to show. That's why the Workers' Party has a strong commitment to low-threshold mental health care, to staffing the school health service, and to strengthening the psychiatry in our budget, because we can't afford not to, and we're not allowed to close our eyes. Psychiatric health we meet in many areas, and we also meet it at one of the welfare state's biggest holes – dental health. One of the wood has been exposed or neglected to go to the dentist due to financial problems. 14 pst. have taken up loans to afford the necessary dental treatment. At the same time, nine out of ten want dental care to be part of public health services in line with the rest of the body. People in the fifties tell about how they've had to pull one and one tooth because it's been cheaper than rooting. The Labour Party has set itself the goal of doing something about this, and we show it in our budget – free dentists up to 21 years, half price up to 25 years. It is good prevention and a handshake for young people in the start-up phase. We put money into schemes for them with poor advice, and we strengthen the support systems, for example. to those who have delayed oral effects after cancer treatment. It's about setting up for those who need it the most, it's about people drying to give you a smile when you pass them on the street. This has led the Right’s Health Commissioner to dare and break out that the Workers’ Party appears to be out of control. A dental policy that in the long run costs half of the tax cuts given by the government is helping to shock the Right. It is then easier to understand why this government has chosen a different direction, cut in support of children with a clear need for dental regulation, why they have tightened support for those with a severely reduced ability to self-care for their dental health, and why the rates of social benefit up to now in this field have been weakened year after year. Let this be the last budget of privatisation over Community solutions, marked by tax cuts to the richest rather than building up welfare systems. There will be a choice, and there will be an opportunity to choose a new direction for the country before the next state budget for health is presented – a direction in which we can ensure a health policy where everyone is going, because now most people are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3124	The last year has been different for everyone. 2020 began with optimism, which was turned into pessimism for many as the infection spread in the world. Many have felt insecurity for their health, for their families and for their jobs. Health professionals have had a particularly demanding year. Divicious professionals around municipalities and hospitals have been working on explosives to detect infection, test and provide good treatment, but not least to do what they could to deal with all the other treatments that people have needed from healthcare. In Norway, we have some of the world’s best health services. Everyone has access to equivalent healthcare regardless of who they are, or the size of the wallet. Health services provide us with good treatment, and research is being carried out to prevent and combat even more diseases. Our health service is getting better and better. But there are still challenges that need to be solved, especially now. Many people have put their treatments on hold during the pandemic. Young people and older people are among those who know about solitude, which can also cause mental problems, because the pandemic has had more consequences than just infection, and we also know that people have been affected differently. We're going to take Norway out of the corona crisis. It's about ensuring a good level of infection protection and good treatment. That is why a strong commitment to the health budget is absolutely necessary in 2021, and it also delivers the government parties and the Progress Party. Hospital budgets are being strengthened, and an activity increase is being added up that is greater than the population changes would be expected. It is absolutely necessary to repeat many of the treatments that have been put on hold. Although the waiting times for treatment now are not as long as they were under the red-green government, they have increased under the pandemic. Right do not want health cows at a red-green level, and therefore hospitals are also strengthened. The action plan for general medical care is followed up, and the action plan for children and young people’s mental health is strengthened, inter alia. the development of more digital services for children and young people, and strengthening the provision of mental health care for children in the field of child protection. These are just some of the government's efforts that we are adopting today, together with the Progress Party, to improve the supply of Norwegian patients. Right creates the patient's healthcare. It's about being seen, heard and taken seriously as a patient, and not least it's about making no decisions about you without you. A patient is not just a passive recipient of a healthcare service. Even if you're a patient sometimes during life, you still have to be the head of your own life. This is one of the reasons why the Right in Government has introduced free treatment choices. Free treatment options allow patients to choose between public and private and non-profit hospitals with official approval without paying more. This is done for example: to reduce waiting times, but most importantly, to enable the patient to decide more on his or her own treatment and life. To date, over 40,000 patients have used that patient right. Many thousands of them are those in need of drug treatment or mental health care. There are patients who are important given the opportunity to have more power over their own treatment services and to decide what is right for them. Those patients will deprive the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV of the opportunity to choose differently, unless the same patients can afford to pay for it out of their own pocket. There is a two-way sharing of healthcare that the Right will not accept. The last year has shown us for real that alone is not the solution to global problems, for example. A pandemic is yours. Norway needs international cooperation and the EEA Agreement, among others. in order to have access to infectious disease protection equipment, medicinal products and vaccines. A no to the EEA Agreement and a yes to less international cooperation, such as: The centre party is in charge, not only would it be bad to secure Norwegian jobs, it would also be bad for Norwegian preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3145	Today, we heard at NRK P2 that the Central Statistical Office is warning that the differences between people are increasing even more in our country. The rich are getting richer, and the poor are getting poorer. This is a result of the policy pursued in the country, was the message from the SSB. When the message is so clear and clear – yes, we also know that the health differences in the country are increasing. I'm worried, especially about the many children who are now growing up in homes where wages or social security do not go to ordinary expenses. Then it is understandable that the opticians report that glasses for children are not being picked up. Then it is understandable that young people are not allowed to engage in the activities they want. Then it's understandable that Christmas will be different, especially this year with pandemics on top of it all. The working party will never give way to universal schemes that everyone can participate in – whether it is about the importance of an hour of physical activity in school, a school meal that meets every single day, or to make it possible for everyone to find their leisure activity that does not cost too much. The government's negotiated budget for 2021 was presented by a proud Progress Party and a less proud triangle formation of the Right-Left-Christian People's Party. Yes, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad had good reason to hide almost behind the bar because he came up with messages about cheaper alcohol and chocolate. This is very unhealthy. Norway has been a country that has taken national public health seriously since the war, has been involved in making tough choices. I had never in my wildest imagination predicted that one with the Christian People's Party in government would facilitate more reasonable beer and wine. Not so much more reasonable, say many, but that is enough for one of the worn-out boys under Risøybrua in Haugesund to buy nine beers a day instead of eight. I met him at the store last weekend, asking how it went. Yes, he was looking forward to it. He was glad to be able to buy nine beers instead of eight. Politics works. It has a consequence. For the rich, this means nothing. We know who's going to suffer from it. I would like to take you home to Rogaland County, via Haugesund by boat to Utsira, Norway's westernmost and smallest municipality. Here it lives approx. 200 people, 200 people testing out how a school meal works in high school. There has been a success from day one, ranging from Mexican pottery to self-fished cod right outside the schoolyard. Yeah, they even ate lobsters for lunch. The gain is much shared knowledge of where the food comes from, and what it consists of, but most important of all are healthy, healthy and happy kids who learn well. They run home from school in Utsira, full of new knowledge and with saturated stomachs. The highlight of the day for these kids is the lunch. There are several examples of this in Rogaland. I think it's a big connection that Nærbø claims to be at the top of, for example. handball. The kids at Nærbø have been eating school lunch for a long time. They get served – from what they call hotel dispensation – cold milk and juice. That's wise health, and that's wise environmental. Who won't bottle a glass of ice-cold milk or juice during the morning? Away is the half-mind milk that at least I remember with horror and horror. I will end by saying that a harvester like a wound. It applies in politics as well as in handball. A sheep that deserved, and today I take the opportunity to say that public health was forgotten in the budget for 2021 of the right-wing government with the Advance Party in the head, but I am very disappointed with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3167	In August, I took part in a debate on the mental health of children and young people. In normal circumstances, the meeting would be in a hall here in Oslo with typically 50 to 100 participants. As a result of the Korona, the organizers, the Brain Council and the Nansen Neuroscience Network, turned up to an online meeting. Since the debate was directed at young people, I didn't have so much expectations for the number of participants, but both I and the organizer were very surprised. During the meeting, more than 800 people attended, and more than 400 people attended throughout the meeting. The web lowers the threshold for all of us. The web allows us to seek help where it is, and the web provides good accessibility when we are going to seek health care. If it's possible to say that the corona is doing something positive with us, it has to be that we've become better at using digital aids. The fact that far more doctors and health care professionals offer online consultations benefits many patients. The budget for 2021 proposes to redeploy 35 million. to facilitate the operation and development of digital services for children and young people. Adults are more used to visiting healthcare directly, but for children and young people who are struggling, better digital assistance is an important contribution. It is children and young people themselves who have called for the digitisation of health and school health services. The Directorate for Health and the Directorate for eHealth, in cooperation with the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family, has launched the DIGI-UNG programme – digital services for children and young people. The aim of DIGI-UNG is to provide easily accessible and quality-proof information, guidance and services to young people through a comprehensive digital cross-sectoral offer that contributes to mastering and self-help. Many concerns have been raised to show that the disease prevention measures under the pandemic are affecting many disabled children and young people and their families. At the beginning of the pandemic, a stop was introduced at the national health and care services to prevent the spread of infection among those most at risk. It was important, but we see that this can be a great burden for residents and families. The pandemic increased the load on the relatives, leading to an increased need for related support and relief. In the government budget there is therefore a proposal for a one-off grant of 100 million. to the local authority's work on rehabilitation and relief for children and young people with disabilities. More and more of our young people are struggling with mental health. This is something we take seriously, and this is something we'll do even more to prevent and remedy. We've already done a lot. The government has put in place a series of packages for people with mental disorders. We have already made sure that all municipalities have their own psychologist. The work of helping people who suffer never ends. Many young people experience pressures and anxieties in everyday life, and more and more young people report mental health disorders. The action plan for children and the mental health of young people has been developed to reverse this trend and to help young people master their own lives. The plan was adopted at Stortinget in January this year and is followed up in the budget for next year. 170 million. kr will be allocated to this important measure. One hundred million. kr of this amount goes to the first line offer in the municipalities, where people live. FACT Young is one of the measures supported by the budget. FACT Young is a multi-disciplinary outreach team aimed at children and young people with long-standing and complex needs. These are young people who may need simultaneous services from several sectors and levels, but who lack the necessary structure around them to benefit from existing services. The Health Directorate is in the process of piloting such FACT Youth teams. With a budget of five million. The Directorate will be able to extend the piloting process, develop digital tools to be used by teams and evaluate the pilots. Children and young people struggling with mental health and alcohol are a particularly vulnerable group. Those who are also under child protection are very vulnerable and vulnerable. Budget funds have been set aside to implement a package for the monitoring and treatment of somatic and mental health and drug problems in children and young people in child protection. The aim of the package is for children and young people to be monitored, investigated and followed up on any health and drug problems so that they can receive the necessary health care. More and more of our young people are struggling with mental health. This is something we take seriously, and this is something we'll do even more to prevent and remedy. We've already done a lot. For more than seven years, we've been working to create patients' health services because we believe that people should go ahead of systems. There's still a lot we want to do for those who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3190	Those who are given the following word have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3195	The Norwegian Medical Association has discovered that 50 municipalities have a dramatic lack of firmness, and that one in three teams is over 55 years old, and that there are not enough young doctors coming to the order. Determiners have an average working week of over 55 hours, 25 pst. works more than 62 hours and 10 pst. works 75 hours a week. That's a lot! Every tenth wants to end, the working day just gets too rough. The system is a good system, and it was the Workers' Party that initiated and established the scheme. But now it's in crisis, and it's been for a long time. It must meet with an offensive policy. That is why the Labour Party proposes 350 million. kr more than the government parties will go on in 2021. The budget-mates, who have made a settlement, have a top 20 million. kr in what was proposed by the government. And the president of the Norwegian Medical Association says the government is failing at the first crossroads. This was the money that was going to be used for recruiting permanent staff through the ALIS system and training places. From the outset, it is worth noting, as KS states, that the municipal sector also subsidises the fixed medical scheme by 500 million. kr. The Workers' Party agrees with the Medical Association that there is an urgent need to reduce the list length, and we prioritise the amount the doctors are asking for, in our alternative budget. The fixed crisis is demanding in both urban and rural areas, but the districts are most affected by disability and also have the biggest challenges of recruiting doctors. Necessary offensive efforts on the fixed-term scheme are also offensive district policies. Everyone shall have the right to good and safe health services. If the scheme is not rescued, the Labour Party fears that commercial operators will take over the market and that access to basic health services in the districts will be considerably reduced. It'll give both social and geographical inequality. The Workers' Party will make our common welfare state stronger. The fixed medical system is an important part of this welfare state, and we promise that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3208	Tomorrow, Erna Solberg will receive a letter – a knockout. Behind it is 100 organisations, associations, professionals, experts, health professionals and others. It's the nurses, it's the doctors, it's the LHL, it's the National Association of Public Health, it's the Cancer Association, and it's the Diabetes Association. I can ram a lot of people -- that's 100. It says: ‘The budget agreement is a setback for public health work. We do not need cheaper candy, snuff or alcohol, what we need are courageous and responsible politicians who ensure the future health of today’s children, young people and adults.’ These are words in time. I've seen a lot of strange things, but it's possible to use 7.3 billion. kr so irresponsible in a budget settlement, I have almost never seen. I have challenged the Minister of Health before: Think to be Minister of Health and have a SEK 7.3 billion. kr more at disposal. What would you have used it for, believe? SV had used it for cheaper healthy food, because we have cut VAT on food. We have used it for several health workers – we now know that we need it both in our hospitals and in the community health service. There are the extinct, and they're too few from before. We have used it to strengthen hospitals, because they need to be able to build up both skills and capacity and to take more patient care away. We could have lifted some of the poorest, because we know that being poor and having poor health is related. Everyone knows that poverty also leads to the cracking of both mental and physical health. None of this has been done by the government. SV has also prioritised lowthreshold services within psychiatry. We have prioritised free school food, we have prioritised dental health. We have also prioritised what the representative Kjöna Kjos was up here on the platform and talked about, user-driven personal assistance. So it's possible to use 7.3 billion. to enhance both public health and health. What the government and the majority have done is the very opposite. I've never seen anything like it in my whole life, and I think it's almost flat on behalf of everyone, to see that it's possible to do it in the middle of a pandemic. When you have 7.3 billion. So at your disposal, you spend that money on cheaper snoring, snuggling, and alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3224	A little earlier today, we witnessed an interesting succession of lines between Højres Holm Lønseth and the Kjerkol Workers' Party, where the Right attacked the Hospital Budget of the Workers' Party. Then it was supposed to be because the Right thought we had a worse hospital budget than them? No, that's because we only had one billion more than the right. One might say that we should have had even more from the Workers' Party, but it must be a huge admission from the Right's representative to their own budget that they have lower ambitions than the Workers' Party has in this field, and that for a year – if you have to be nice – you can say that it is one of the better ones that has been delivered by the Government parties during this process of mass destruction. Both Holm Lønseth and Erlend Larsen from the Right have been occupied by the right to free treatment choice. Let me start by stressing that the Workers' Party is engaged in free hospital selection, where we use the capacity of our common hospitals as best we can. But what either Holm Lønseth or Larsen comes up with is that this is not Ole Brumm's policy where you get yes thanks, both parts, this is a policy where the public hospitals have to pay. I have previously asked Health Minister Höie about what Sørlanden Hospital has to pay. Yes, from 2018 to 2019 they got over a double. The bill went up from $9.5 million. NOK in costs of 20,7 million. kr, while Sørlanden Hospital has announced that they will cut 200 million. D in the coming years. So it's not like that bag for health treatment just grows under the right because they introduce free treatment options. No, there's someone taking the bill, and that's our common hospital. Then Holm is Lønseth from the Right into patients who need treatment because they have a drug addiction. Then it sounds as if the left-hand side is less concerned with these because we are critical of free treatment choices. It is an impression that must not get attached. Firstly, in the context of the drug reform, the Labour Party has been very concerned that we should go from punishment to help, and we also need to look at what it contains. We need a power cap on the treatment side. We have promoted this with our own proposal for a representative, and it is possible for both the Right and the rest of the government parties to be involved in and support it when we are going to deal with it after New Year's. It is also the case that the Stortinget when the Christian People's Party was in opposition, the government ordered the purchase of several places within the drug treatment field because the offer Health South-East had been out with was too poor. It can also be recognised that the Labour Party has voted in favour of an increase in the proportion of non-profit actors in this sector. So we don't have an allergy to being able to participate. But it may be that it's more about getting a well personalised setup than shopping offers from a catalogue of private, commercial actors. At least we want to spend the community's money on health, not on profit, but on developing the health care people depend on, even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3239	Parental care is an area that has always been important to the Progress Party and for some reason has not taken so much part in this debate. At least we have in our alternative budget set by 1 billion. to strengthen care for the elderly. There is a desire to increase the number of hospitals, to strengthen nutrition and to strengthen the provision of activities to the elderly and to strengthen the provision of dental care. Older people are one of the groups that are the hardest hit by the coronary apathy, and we've had a positive impact on strengthening our commitment to solitude. In 2021 400 million must be used. SEK in activity offers to our elderly, and we hope the municipalities and voluntary teams and associations will quickly move around to establish good offers that will benefit the elderly quickly. We've got a majority to increase the hospital's capacity by 1,000 places. The grant scheme for establishing the kitchen in a nursing home – which was discussed in the line change with the Health Minister – continues, and I would like to encourage the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, which run over half of the country's municipalities, to actually apply for that post. The Progress Party believes that everyone deserves a warm and worthy old age regardless of where you live in the country. Therefore, we want to extend the experiment with state-funded care for the elderly. The Progress Party believes, in principle, that the State should have financial responsibility for the care of the elderly, in order to ensure that the elderly do not become a balancing post outside the municipalities. The project of state-funded care for the elderly was established on 1 May 2016 and has been a major success story of which we want more. The funding model alone ensures that employees do their job based on professional judgement and not fear of tight budgetary frameworks. Older people get more involved and get the services they need, and the relatives become sure that the services they need older people are actually provided. Today, unfortunately, the postal address determines which care services you receive. The Progress Party believes that older people deserve safe and good health and care throughout the country. Now we've been able to extend the project to six new municipalities. It'll be Lødingen, Enebak, Ashøy, Arendal, Fromand and Lwigal, and I understand that they're very happy to join the project. The Progress Party has been given the opportunity to launch a permanent post on the State budget of the Relative Alliance, an organisation that works to make everyday life easier for relatives. Over a few years, the Progress Party has joined the voluntary organisation Wish Transport, which is doing an invaluable job for serious sick people in the final phase of life. They contribute to fulfilling their desire to say good-bye to a place that has been important to them in life, attending weddings, confirmations or other wishes that people might have in a phase of life where it would be impossible to leave hospitals or homes otherwise. Earlier this year, I was able to carry the desired transport up to the Preikestolen together with ALS-sick Bjørn. It was an incredibly great experience. Bear can no longer go or talk, but he had a keen desire to go up to the Preike chair, and together with a great team of volunteers we got it done. The Progress Party is therefore also pleased that we have strengthened the Wish Transport by 4 million. kr, so that they can develop their offer across the country and help even more people in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3254	I love the welfare state. It gives everyone equal opportunities. Whether you're a poor drug addict or a multimillionaire, you get world-class health care. But there's a big hole in our welfare state. When we smile, the class differences shine out of our mouths. Why is it that in Norway we have a health care system that takes care of all of us, our whole body, just not our teeth? Why is it that if we break a foot or get a heart attack, it is public ready to accept us, but not when we have a complicated root fill? There's money in the system. We're richer now than ever. We're richer now than when we decided to give all children free school. We're richer now than when we built the Bergensbanen, and it cost as much as a whole state budget that time. When we talk about giving free dental care to everyone, it's still just a small fraction of the budget. The problem is that the money has gone to the rich when the Right rules the country. SV proposes a dental reform that no one should be afraid to go to the dentist because of the economy. We start with a free dental check for all over 75 years of age and suggest free dental treatment for all under 23 years of age. We're going to rebuild the welfare state once the right parties have lost their election in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3265	I take the floor in connection with the solution proposed by the representative Kjerkol in his statement, and it is a proposal on the Health Library. The health library has provided health professionals in university hospitals, home health care, the permanent care service and many other health professionals with access to professional journals and reference books over many years. We often talk in this room about our policy being knowledge-based. But what about those who are involved in medical practice? Shouldn't they also have the opportunity to work knowledge-based? The health library has reported in recent days that there will be significant cuts in their services and that health professionals will no longer have access to these good journals, which they have had in the past. Magne Nylenna, professor of social medicine and known from the Institute of Public Health, says in the Evening Post: ‘The availability of the world’s best medical journals disappears. What are you thinking, Höie?' I can ask the same question and ask Councillor Höie what he's thinking about. The Labour Party has today made a proposal to secure the Health Library, and I hope the government parties can consider supporting this proposal, so that we can still ensure that Norwegian health professionals have access to a world-class knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3287	Family, friends and social relations are part of a good Christmas. Away residents seek home, and we gather for good food, board games and traditions. For some of us this year's Christmas celebration is about as it tends to be, while too many of us go into a time of solitude, isolated from those we are happy in. Students are not allowed to go home and people at risk choose to isolate themselves. People who are licensed have to deal with far less in pay than they're used to. We're standing in front of a very different Christmas, a Christmas that's going to be heavy to get through too many of us. Christmas of the year is going to make great demands on each of us. We have to show more than we normally do, care for people we're not going to celebrate Christmas with. This year we should call a friend, send a nice message or in other ways prevent our closeness from experiencing solitude. Some places there are hung up gift requests on the Christmas trees. There are many ways to please others, known and unknown, and to be a light in the darkness. There are many good people and organisations that make up, to a greater extent this year than ever before. Volunteers use their leisure time to give us a warmer Christmas. Many of the activities that volunteers do have a cost. Here we can also contribute, both as individuals and as communities. The government has set aside 25 million. kr on behalf of all of us to organisations that make an extra effort this Christmas. The funds shall go to social activities and alternative Christmas celebrations and Christmas assistance, such as food boxes, clothes and gifts. The contribution allows the Salvation Army, the Blue Cross, the Red Cross and the Church's Bymition to reach out to more. The Norwegian Church and other religious and life-view societies can offer digital productions as alternatives to the Christmas service and our traditional Christmas concerts. Auxiliary telephones with the possibility of having good conversations are good responses to loneliness and mental distress, which tend to intensify during the Christmas season. Mental Health, the Alarm Phone for Children and Young People, the Demons Line and the Family Line are some organizations that offer good deals. For children and young people, there are own chat services run by Mental Health Youth. People with drug problems, mental health problems or prostitution experience receive support from peer services provided by voluntary and non-profit organisations. Several peer actions are at risk of being cancelled or closed at Christmas because of the corona. Organisations such as A alert, Children of drug users, RIO and Ivarata are given the means to reinforce their help this Christmas. 2020 is different year. For many, this is a bad year. Had to end soon. We can all contribute a little bit to some more getting it a little bit better. We can light a light in the dark.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3300	How our health and care services recruit is a good indication of how developments actually go, and in the last part of the budget there are some chapters about what is interesting to read. It says, among other things. that it has been an increase of 20 pst. in annual works without health and social education in municipalities from 2015 to 2019. It's a rather serious development, which is getting too little attention in this health debate. To complement some of what the Center Party has prioritised in our budget: we have also prioritised an increase in the development of sick homes, 500 new ones in 2021. Intimidation has been raised, and it is important that it is mentioned in this debate. It accounts for a large part of the annual work outside, and especially during the pandemic, it is important to make good arrangements for relatives. The Centre Party shall increase support for the Retirement Alliance and the Retirement Support Schemes. When it comes to hospice, the Center Party doesn't support children's hospice in Kristiansand, but we pay attention to Lukas Hospice in Malvik, and we also pay tribute to hospitals for the creation of children's palliative teams and for strengthening palliative supply. We also have planning agents for the air ambulance station in Bykle/Vinje. We support MS treatment and increase research at ME. So I want to say a few words about the budget agreements: it increases the ABE cut, and even if hospitals get some of it refunded, this means a real cut to the public hospitals. That means a cut of 20 million. kr to the fixed medical device. But what's not so much said about it is that it also means a cut of 1 million. SEK to the Swedish Institute for Public Health, 1 million. The Health Directorate, and it is extremely unwise in such a situation as we are now, where these should also be strengthened. When it comes to alcohol and tobacco cuts, there's a lot to say about it, but here I want to give credit to the representative Haukeland Liadal, who took all the way down on the floor what this means. It actually means that the person who struggles with too much alcohol is now able to buy eight beers instead of seven. That is what this is all about, and that is what is the consequence of this budgetary agreement. And when we have a health debate, I thought that the priority is disgusting, that one can do something like that, and I think the foundation is very weak. To the cut in the health library: the center party is very much in agreement with the loose proposal. This will frame the generals most. They lose access to important medical journals. Now we're going to strengthen the general medical system and we're going to have to make sure that we don't take away the possibilities to get up-to-date knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3318	The right has strengthened health budgets and will also do so in the next year. It is suggested that more people can be treated, and that those who have been hospitalised are given the opportunity to take it. It seems as if it is almost surprising to the Workers' Party that the financing of their promises does not go up with their increases of 1 billion. kr., when you hear the post to Morland. The difference is that although the Right forces the hospital budgets and facilitate increased activity, the Labour Party promises more than they can keep if you see where the money goes. But it's probably a little bit like what the Workers' Party chooses to do when, for example. The representative Mørland himself chooses to make a contribution to dental health, and the Workers' Party has actually promised a dental reform. They deliver an alternative state budget of 250 million. kr to what will probably cost quite a billion dollars. I just think that the Labour Party should be honest that, within the limits that they propose to grant in their alternative state budget, you just can't afford all the promises you make. I want to stand firm by that going in to remove the right to free treatment makes many of the people who are currently receiving drug treatment lose the right to choose an offer that suits them themselves, unless they have a wallet that allows them to pay for it. I think it's an unfair priority, and I really think that the way Morland argues, because seriously shows that the Workers' Party puts the system ahead of the patient. For the most important argument, it seems that, against allowing people to choose an offer that suits them, you can't take the money from the hospitals. But there is no contradiction between investing in strengthening public hospitals and at the same time giving patients the opportunity to choose another offer where the public bill is. I think it is quite unfair that these patients should only have the opportunity to choose that offer if they have good advice, which is really the practice of the Workers' Party's proposal, because it seems much more important to put the system ahead of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3327	I chose to take the word because I thought it was getting closer to finishing. As chairman of the committee, I would like to thank you very much for a good debate, but I see that it may continue for a little while longer. The representative Nicholas Wilkinson came up to the pulpit and outspoken that he loves the welfare state. He'd have to do that. What I appreciate, for my part, is the welfare society – where the public, along with ideal volunteers, yes, even private ones, facilitate an inclusive society. That's what the welfare society the Christian People's Party is going to fight for in the future. I understand that disappointment is being expressed in reducing taxes on alcohol, sugar and snuff. This was not a wish settlement for the Christian People's Party. Everyone who knows the Christian People's Party knows that we would never have suggested it. It was to get a budget in port – and we were busy with the whole budget, which we think is good – and because there were other important things the Christian People's Party also had to fight for. However, in the case of the sugar levy, only a small piece of information that may also be confirmed by the Council of State: after the budgetary agreement was in port, real and very good cooperation has been established with the industry to bring down sugar content. Everyone knows that if you eat chocolate, you get a lot of sugar. But there are a lot of other foods that we buy every day, which also have a very high sugar content. The industry, together with the department and the professional bodies, has now started good cooperation to reduce sugar content. And that's what I'm after. I think it's very good that we're going. I just want to thank the Council of State, his skilled employees, departments and agencies for the work they have done over a difficult period of time. I want to wish everyone a real, really good Christmas! It's going to be a different Christmas for all of us, but I hope that we all get a few days, and that the days are going to be the way each of us is going to need them. So from my side: Merry Christmas to all!
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3340	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3345	I need to bring a case information to SV. Tax cuts on frontier goods are about securing Norwegian jobs and are not below the Minister of Health. With regard to the health and care budget, in tough negotiations with the government, the Progress Party has strengthened the budget by 1.8 billion. kr. That's about. 2 billion. kr more than SV wants. I also register that SV is now the party at Stortinget that wants the highest proportions for sick people. With regard to the solution of the Labour Party's proposal, I can inform you that the Progress Party cannot support it, because we have got through a budgetary agreement. But we agree that the Health Library is important and do not understand why it should be necessary to adopt this proposal. The Public Health Institute now has a budget of 1.26 billion. NOK – an increase of 195 million. kr. It should be possible to find funds for this within the existing budget. So we'd like to ask the Minister of Health for an answer on what he's going to do to secure the Health Library in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3354	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It is a good health budget that the Storting will now adopt. I just want to comment on some issues. I think it might be a bit indicative of the Central Party's view of Norwegian healthcare when the representative Toppe from the table on page 346, which shows the annual development of municipal health and care services, is able to find – and it is well done, because there is a large table – the only group with a minus in front of them in the long table, namely the children's and youth workers, whom she chooses to draw out in her article. That's one thing. The second is that when the representative in his closing post also tried to make it so that there is now an increase in the proportion who do not have education, who work in this sector, it is directly wrong. From the end of 2015 to the end of 2019, municipal health and care services had an annual growth of about 11.3 p.m., representing 16 800 annual works. As shown in the budget documents, growth was highest among those with higher health and social education. There was a growth of about 17.9 pst. Among these, the growth has been particularly high among nurses with and without specialisation. I think it's a pleasure, because it's a concrete result of a political commitment to competence in municipal health and care services, Competencelift 2020. In this state budget, we are continuing and strengthening this with Competence Council 2025, as among other things. further focus on skills, part-time reduction, a full-time culture and a reduction in temporary work. We have the eartag over 2 billion. to further enhance the competence of municipal health and care services. To draw out some of the numbers with plus in front of them, which I think is very nice, in the same table that the representative Toppe referred to: it has e.g. an increase of 25,4 pst. among ergot monkeys. There's been an increase of 17.5 pst. among health sisters. And a very focused effort has produced significant results: From 2015 to 2019 there has been an increase in the number of midwives in the municipalities of 51.9 p.m. It is not to hide that I am also not a major supporter of part of the tax reliefs made in the budget agreement, but I think that when parties in other contexts place great emphasis on what the border trade really represents this year, and say that one should fight the border trade, it is not credible that the centre party should fight the border trade with cheaper cereal products and that kind of thing. People know what they're going to Sweden to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3367	One is that it sounds as if the Progress Party believes that you should live in completely different booths, and that what is going on on the fee page, for example, has nothing to do with health. It's got it. It shows all these organizations involved in this. Of course, we know that there is no health either with snuff, sugar or alcohol. And it is possible to lower the fees on important goods, such as fruit and vegetables and other food that people should afford to buy more. It had at least a certain perspective into both public health and the health debate. I've lived pretty much my whole life on the border, and I know what border trade is for something. At least what the Swedes are saying now is that this doesn't matter. What matters now is that the limit is closed. It's completely closed, you can't go over and act. It's quite true, as the Council of State says, that there are some baits here. I think that if you want to go down so much in price, so that you can compete with it in Norway, we're talking about huge, huge fee losses for Norway. This is a dilemma, but now we're in a health debate, and then it's a question of what we would spend so many billion more if we had them on the table. I record that many here will use them for things that damage health, damage people's health, and that defeat the state budget. Then SV says that we want to spend that money in a smarter way, which means that we improve people's health, that we improve the health of people who have poor health, and that we improve the economy of those who have little money and, as we know, are very vulnerable to poor health. That's what we want to do. It's a choice, and we have to make some value choices as well. We have to make some brave choices in this big business and in the comparisons we're making. This is one of the worst similarities I've ever seen. There was another in the spring, which was also totally irresponsible, that was about the oil industry, where billions were thrown after the oil industry, many more than they wanted. And now you've done this. There's a need. We have campaigns, we're doing a lot of different steps to get people to trim more, to eat healthier, not to smoke, to drink less, etc. And so the majority of the population and the government answer to this equation. That's wrong. It's the wrong priority, and it's the wrong use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3380	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3385	I also have to answer Bent Höie about new employees in the municipalities, because it is also important that we train people to get more people in the municipalities and hospitals. Then we can look at the figures from 2018 to 2019 by people who have studied in Norway and received authorisation as a health care professional. There has been a downward trend — in the case of ambulance workers, pharmacists, audiographers, ergot therapists, health secretary, midwives, doctors, dental secretary. Everything goes down. We get fewer new authorized people who have studied in Norway, and that is a big problem. We have a crew crisis in Norway, and SV believes that the government should use this money to reduce the crew crisis rather than have a little cheaper chocolate.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3390	The representative Kjersti Toppe has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3395	I have a note for the Council of State Höie's last post. I mean, I don't mean children's and youth workers. My names include activists who have had a decrease of 19.2 pst. and I mean that it has been an increase of 19.1 pst. in annual non-health and social work. It is true that there has been an increase in, for example: 17.5 pst. for health sisters, 11 pst. for peers and 9.1 pst. for physiotherapists. But it's an increase of 19.1 pst. for those without education from 2015 to now. That's what I think is really alarming. When the Council of State thinks that we are more vulnerable in public health policy than in border trade policy, I live very well with it. That's absolutely true. We're more credible in public health policy, and I think that's very good, because it's actually the most important thing for people and for people's health. There is a limit to what one should allow to minimise border trade and leakage, and it goes on very basic things. We are not willing to reduce taxes on tobacco and alcohol, but the majority of people have done so in this budget agreement. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3402	Sorry - the representative Toppe is absolutely right. I said child and youth workers, but I meant activists. That's absolutely right. It is the only group in this table that has had a decrease. The child workers and youth workers, as I mentioned, have had an increase of over 40 pst. It was the representative of the Commission and it is the only group in that table that has a decrease. And it shows what was my main point, that because of the targeted political commitment to competence in municipal health and care services, there is an increase in those with higher education. That's what's the important political point. I very much agree with what the representative says in conclusion about the border trade, but then also the party leader in the Central Party must stop being so high and dark in the debate on border trade. When the party's health professional is so honest and says what she is saying now, namely that the party has prioritised public health in front of the border trade – it is an entirely honest position to take – one must not speak loudly about border trade in other debates and then about public health policy here. For the Central Party, there is no credibility in the issue of border trade, and it is important to obtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3427	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3434	I'll take this very briefly. The Ministry of Health and Welfare makes proposals in its proposal for changes to the appropriations under some chapters of the State budget for 2020. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, has taken note of the reasons given and endorses the proposals. The reason we have a debate on this now is that the Central Party and the SV have their own proposal. I expect that they will prepare for it themselves. So the plural supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3441	It is true that the case-speaker has already said, that the centre party in this case makes a proposal together with SV. It is about the 2020 budget and changes to it. What's the concern of the Center Party is that a statement in the proposition that there has been a loss of activity-based revenues in the period from June to December that the government estimates at 867 million. kr, and the government thinks it shall not be compensated, but shall be covered within the extra promise made in ours. It's alarming. It's very uncertain how the health care economy is now. In addition, we note that even the recorded loss of income before June is not adequately compensated for in the compensation granted before June. It has been promised that health professionals will be compensated for both lost income and increased expenditure, and then we think what is presented in this proposal is alarming. The Central Party also supports the proposal to make a change, so that we put back some of these money – almost 400 million. kr – for healthcare professionals. In the previous case we were dealing with, there was a proposal from the minority asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a case in the spring of 2021 with an explanation of the financial situation in healthcare professionals to see if they have enough money to both take back the cravings for treatment and take care of the treatments they have to do. So this proposal is being voted down, and I think it is unfortunate when we look at it in the context of this matter. We also received reports from the State budget of the Medical Association – that it was uncertain how the economy is in health care during the pandemic. When we have a crisis package for all other industries, we must at least make sure that the health care economy is sound and safe. With that, I'm going to deal with the proposal that the Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3454	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3459	We're in a pandemic. Patients are in line, both for operations and for meetings with doctors. It also applies to those who are mentally ill. Everyone's waiting to get the treatment they need. Then it is important that the hospitals get the money Stortinget has decided to go to the hospitals. Hospitals will lose a minimum of 388 million. kr under the pandemic we are in, with the proposal that the government has sent to Stortinget. This government gives with one hand and takes with the other. The government tricked the press in the spring when they said the whole health crisis package was going to the hospitals. The sum the government gave to the press was not correct, since not the whole sum has been sent to the hospitals. SV suggested that all the ISF funds should go to the hospitals, anyway. The right parties and the Labour Party voted against the proposal, and now we can see that the fear SV had was right, that the hospitals will lose money. SV does not accept this cut and suggests that all that is taken from ISF should be given to hospitals. SV suggests, along with the Center Party, 388 million. kr more to the hospitals. The item may be used in 2021. That's important, because then more patients can get help, and we can reduce the queues this year, but also in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3468	I don't have to spend so much speaking time, I just want to give an explanation of vote for the Workers' Party. We're not in the minority's proposal, the parties Central Party and SV, but we want to vote for it when we get to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3473	The year 2020 is by no means a normal year, and all health care actors have had a short time to change to meet the major challenges of the coronary apathy. The conversion costs at a time when the pandemic is to be controlled at the same time as normal activity is to be maintained and the hospital economy has been in a difficult situation. It is therefore proposed to compensate health regions by about 2.4 billion. kr just for loss of activity-based income. The harvest has clearly shown that the presence at the country’s borders and the measures to control import infection are important to keep the infection pressure down. The Government therefore proposes to continue the testing scheme at the relevant border stations. We have also established a system of quarantine hotels for people who enter the country and who are not allowed to carry out the quarantine in the appropriate place. Municipalities shall also offer persons in quarantine hotels the opportunity to test themselves. It is therefore proposed to establish a separate grant scheme for the testing of residents by municipalities in quarantine hotels. The government continues to strengthen the Public Health Institute, by 20 million. kr for additional work related to the pandemic and SEK 15 million. kr for the acquisition of a new infectious detection application. It is also proposed that 0.5 billion be made available. kr in increased appropriations for the conclusion of a prior agreement on the supply of vaccines against covid-19 and the purchase of the vaccine. A further 1 billion is also proposed. kr. Through this we are well equipped to conclude agreements on vaccines both before and after the end of the year. The rapid conversion is due, inter alia, to: good and fast-paced digitisation measures. However, it has been demanding for the Directorate for eHealth to deal with additional expenditure within its framework. The Government therefore proposes to strengthen the eHealth Directorate by 10 million. kr. There has been a low demand for investment grants for lucky day care facilities in 2020. This means that the commitment framework will not be used in full this year. The House Bank has estimated that the overall commitment framework can be reduced by 1 billion. kr. This means that the 2020 allocation will be reduced by 50 million. kr in relation to the payment profile of the grant. It is also proposed to increase the allocation to the Central Unit for compulsory care at the Brøset in Health Mid-Norway by 28 million. in 2020, as a result of an additional consumption of the scheme. Those convicted of a specific reaction pursuant to the provisions of the Criminal Code shall be examined at the Bruset before returning to the municipality of residence for enforcement of the judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3493	According to the case, it's 867.9 million. kr that the government, after an overall assessment, is not willing to compensate the hospitals for in lost income as a result of the pandemic. In addition, an uncompensated for what a say is to compensate hospitals for, cf. the proposal we have with SV. There is now a great deal of uncertainty in the professional environment about the hospital budget actually gets big enough in the pandemic situation that we are in. The medical association has recorded to the committee, which we have put forward as a proposal in the previous case, that during the first half of the year the Stortinget gets an explanation as to whether the regional health professionals have managed to re-establish health cows and follow-up that have arisen in connection with the coronary apathy. Now there won't be a majority for that proposal, but will the Council of State make sure that we get such a distribution in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3500	The size gets information about the development of the hospitals' economy, and if the representative has specific questions about it, I will of course answer that question. But I have to say that I have some challenges to understand that a believe the hospitals have not been compensated for what they have been promised. On the contrary, exactly that we're adding about 2.4 billion. to compensate for loss of income caused by less activity is in line with what was said earlier this year. In the meetings I have had with the health regions, I perceive that the expectations for compensation for 2020 have been met. When we look at the latest review of the health regions' economy for 2020, it shows good and positive results. This means that despite the challenges of 2020, there is a lot to show that health regions can maintain their investment activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3508	There's a queue across the country -- mentally ill waiting, people in need of surgery, waiting, and people in need of a doctor to know what to do. Of course, it's true that we have to stop under the corona pandemic, but I'm a little shocked that the government will take money from the hospitals. The ISF scheme loses $2.9 billion. I then thought and hoped that the government would give the same sum to the hospitals. But the government only proposes 2.55 billion. to hospitals. Then the hospitals lose 388 million. kr. Will the government increase this and give this money back to the hospitals after New Year's?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3513	The input-driven funding is settled each year, and at the end of the year, it will be recalculated next year, so that one makes the final settlement for 2020 during 2021. Hospitals and health regions have been compensated for the loss of income that resulted from less activity during the months they were promised to be compensated for before the summer, so I have some challenges to fully understand what the representative thinks. It may be that SV believes that they should also have been compensated for the other months, as they had not been signaled that the loss of income should be compensated, but in the event that the hospitals in a situation where we wanted to get the activity up, would not have had an economic incentive to get the activity up again. This could have meant that the waiting times the representative here pointed out had been even longer than those we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3518	I have a line on the ALIS scheme, because that's also part of this thing. It's a smaller consumption of 20.5 million. k k kln that it has not been applied for ALIS agreements for business purposes. The central party, the Labour Party and the SV have a comment that we believe that the government must take the initiative that these funds can also go to ALIS contracts on a fixed salary basis, which one has good experience with will be able to recruit young people into the fixed-term scheme. My question is whether the Council of State will ensure that this incentive scheme will continue to be able to recruit on a fixed salary basis in the future, and not only for ALIS business agreements, when there is clearly a greater need for a fixed salary agreement than for business contracts, when this becomes unused funds in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3525	We are very concerned about anchoring the instruments in the plan of action for fixed medical devices with the Medical Association. That this is a priority for business, is a result of the discussions we have had with the Medical Association, so we are not going to distort the priorities that we have agreed with the Medical Association in this work. We are concerned about anchoring that way, and we feel that it is also a clear priority on the part of the Medical Association that we should focus on ALIS business agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3530	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3549	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3566	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3583	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3590	In this proposition, quite considerable changes have been proposed, and SV has proposals in addition to this. I just need to say that both the government and the majority constellation make changes to the budget that are political, and then the opposition must also have the opportunity to do so. Improvements in regional and district policies have been proposed due to the closure of Nesna. It's necessary, but it should be unnecessary. There are also increases in framework grants to municipalities. That's absolutely necessary, because there's a lot of shortcomings, and a lot of what we've been discussing in health, is what they're struggling with most now. Therefore, SV has proposed to significantly increase the framework of the municipal sector. So the one thing we're going to suggest is we're going to increase by 100 million. kr in order to have exceptional municipal and county maintenance. We also suggest increasing the discretionary grant by 750 million. NOK to cover the unpaid bills that are left in very many municipalities. It is true that many people have received beauties, and some have probably also been able to cover what they should have, but some municipalities that have not had a major outbreak, but have nevertheless had very large costs of infection protection and preparedness, have not been able to cover their expenses. Therefore, we believe it is right now to add such a large sum, which allows municipalities to avoid using the forces to find something to cut out, instead of being able to function well. In addition to that, we've proposed 100 million. kr to the county councils, because we have also been told by many of them that they are struggling with the economy now. In addition, this proposal cut both resource-intensive services and housing support. That's because both of the arrangements seem not to be used enough. For both schemes, the regulatory framework is too strict. The state has too strict demands. For resource-intensive services there is a need for large increases in municipalities. It makes no sense to cut it there. With regard to the housing support, there's a huge need, because the housing support has become so that for the few who get it now, it covers less of the boute poison than it did before. If not otherwise, everyone should realize after this ageing that there is a need for changes in the housing support legislation so that more people can get, because now you are withdrawing some of the money that many people would have had to pay their rent with. I would like to address the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3603	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3608	The working party also has some comments in this case. I am going to go to post 64 Gender Equality Grant, where the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, writes that we assume that this is not a final settlement for compensation to the municipalities in 2020. It's about the corona, i.e. additional expenditure, loss of income, etc. as a result of the virus outbreak. Tuesday evening, the same day that we debated the budgets of municipalities, counties and state here in Stortinget, the municipal government of my own municipality, Marker, met. After all the insurance from the Council of State, it is stated in a report from the meeting in the Smälenes newspaper that Marker Municipality has had expenses of about 12 million. kr for coronary action, and that less than half of it is covered by the State. The municipality has received a signal that they will transfer 3.5 million. kr in the corona support next year, the head of the municipality of Marker explained, and she elaborated further on for the Smälen newspaper that Marker has spent around 12 million. kr to date this year and that that figure will be slightly higher by the end of 2020. The municipality gets 5.1 million. kr in support of the State and must bear the rest of the bill itself. That's what the paper says. That is all reason for concern, because we have been talking about this in Stortinget for quite a few weeks now – yes, months – and I have come to the conclusion that the Council of State has said very clearly that the municipalities should not worry that they will not be covered by corona-related expenses, they should be fully covered. We've heard – at least I've heard – the Council of State say it repeatedly. So when it came now, I thought that now it's time to take it up right away. For what could it be that the mayor of a municipality says what she says to the local government, that they get this information? What's behind that? Is there anything here that Marker Municipality doesn't understand, or is there something that we other people have not understood? So simply, what can the explanation for this be? I hope the Council of State can go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3617	2020 has been a demanding year. The corona pandemic has affected us all and has had great consequences for the Norwegian economy, for industries and for sectors. When the state budget for 2020 was settled before Christmas last year, no one could imagine what extraordinary events we all had in store for. Major redisposals and new measures should be proposed in the ordinary budgetary procedure or in the context of the revision, but the pandemic situation is reflected in the redisposals proposed by KMD in the budget for the current year. I Prop. 1 S for 2020-2021 inform the government that there would be a reassessment of additional costs, loss of income and any need for adjustments in the promises of the local government as a result of the virus outbreak. We may not come back to normal, but we have to set up to meet the new normal. The working group that was cut down in April has produced its interim report which estimates additional and minor income for the third tertiary. Compensation from the state to the municipal sector is well consistent with the estimates, but the consequences for individual municipalities resulting from virus outbreaks are very different. Most of the compensation for municipalities is so widely distributed according to objective criteria, i.e. by number of inhabitants and cost keys. As a result, there is now a greater need to address measures against the municipalities that have had the biggest costs associated with the outbreak of the virus. In the light of recent developments in infectious diseases and insecurity, and in order to estimate that expenditure varies between municipalities and county municipalities, the Ministry considers that additional means of skinning are needed. Right and Christian People's Party supports this. In view of that, it is suggested to increase the number of runs by 700 million. NOK 100 million for the municipalities. kr to counties, and by the end of the year unused funds will return to the treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3628	The Korona crisis has a major impact on the Norwegian economy and affects all industries and sectors throughout the country, including the municipal sector. Throughout the Korona crisis, the government has been very clear that we need to address the municipalities, and we have done so through several action packages. In doing so, we have also made it possible for municipalities to invest in good kindergartens, school knowledge and quality in health and care services, while at the same time managing a demanding pandemic with testing, isolation, infection tracking and quarantine, which we know is costly and resource-intensive. To date, the municipal sector has received more than 18.5 billion in 2020. kr in additional transfers and financial measures resulting from the coronary apathy. This includes proposals for a total of 900 million. kr as Stortinget treats today. This money should be targeted at those municipalities that have had the most expenditure. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the proposal in the Committee's vote. It is important for the government to have close cooperation and good dialogue with the municipalities about the financial situation, and therefore the government, together with KS, established in our working group to identify the economic consequences of the coronary crisis in the municipal sector. The working group will work until August 2021 and provide interim reports along the way. The working group delivered the first interim report on 16 October, and it appears that there is agreement between the KS and the State that the compensation provided by the State is well in line with the additional costs of the municipal sector and the minor income resulting from the corona so far. At the same time, we know that much is uncertain, and that some municipalities have had higher expenditures than others. The 900 million. kr currently allocated to the local government sector must therefore be targeted against the municipalities with the main challenges. We do that by saying that a substantial part of the budget is discretionary means. The same applies to the appropriations for the first half of 2021, as adopted by the Stortinget on 15 December. Of the 900 million. kr currently proposed for the local government sector is 700 million. extra means of discretion for municipalities. The funds shall be allocated by the county councillors to municipalities with the highest costs per capita related to the protection of infection in 2020. 107 million. kr is a strengthening of the municipal framework transfer in 2020, and the money is to go to posts to ensure that the rules on the protection of the infection of events, serving places and the like. be followed. One hundred million. kr are increased means of discretion for county councils to ensure that county councils with a high level of infection are able to carry out good infectious work in secondary schools. With the government's proposal for increased appropriations in the newly aged budget, we enable the municipal sector to continue the important work on infectious diseases. The representative Karin Andersen also raised the housing support system. The housing aid scheme is not perfect, so this week we have set up an expert committee to go through the scheme. It's been a long time since we had a broad, good review of this system. We get that now, and in the cold water of that, we can make the necessary changes. It is also important to say to the representative Lauvås that yes, the municipal sector as such is compensated for the additional expenditure and minor income they have had, based on the calculations made by KS itself. But there's, of course, variations between municipalities, and tomorrow it'll be disbursed closer to 2 billion. kr to be allocated to municipalities that have incurred large additional costs as a result of the corona. In addition, work on evaluating 2020 will run until April, when the working group will present a new report to summarise this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3650	It was not very reassuring to hear the Council of State say that there are variations between municipalities. Municipalities were to cover their expenses and lost income. That is the guarantee we have been given, not a guarantee that there are variations between municipalities. Of course, there are variations between municipalities, because there are different levels of population, and there have been different types of infection prevention measures. It's obvious that there are variations. It is worrying to read the minutes from the local government meeting that you get less than half – you have spent 12 million. NOK 5 million. kr. If this is true, will the Council of State as soon as advice, I had almost said in the morning, make sure to clarify the information given to the district government in Marker that not even half of the corona expenses will be covered? If it were to vote, what would the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3657	It is difficult for me to go into such a concrete example, but I can call the municipality of Marker tomorrow and get an overview of the situation there. I know, for example. not whether the net or gross figure of the representative Lauvås refers to. He says half has been covered, at the same time he says 3.5 million. kr is going to be covered. In that case, it'll be part of the payments that come tomorrow. Then it's no longer half, then it's two thirds. But anyway, I don't know if this is net or gross. The important thing is that the municipal sector is to be compensated for minor income and additional expenditure arising from the corona. We're going to try to hit each municipality as best we can. Therefore, we provide a significant share of the measures targeted at the municipal sector as discretionary means. In addition, when the financial statements come for 2020, we will be able to make an assessment of how well we met and, if necessary, correct on that basis. Therefore, the working group, which is just looking at this, will not conclude for 2020 before April.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3666	To be absolutely honest, I was somewhat more reassured by the Council of State just at the end. The beginning was not so reassuring, but the end was somewhat better. It is very nice that the Council of State takes a phone call to the municipality of Marker. There are several of us that are going to do. It is beauty that comes, and it makes sense. As I said before, I think we have to calculate almost 360 different settlements because the situation has been so different between the municipalities in Norway. There have been municipalities which have not been infected and which have therefore been able to have fewer measures, but which have nevertheless taken measures as a result of national requirements. So all the municipalities have had expenses with this. It's nice for the Council of State to take a phone call to Marker. I hope the Council of State shares this information. But is it so to understand that you also want to take a new round in connection with the revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3678	The report of the Working Party in April 2021 must show whether this is a basis for doing so. But we're going to follow this situation carefully. We are definitely going to live up to our promise to compensate for the additional costs of the municipal sector and for the small income. I'm glad that we have such a close cooperation with the KS, which takes samples, makes samples and, to the best of our ability, tries to get an overall overview of what the actual extra costs and less incomes have been. It is important to contact the municipalities. I often call rapporteurs, and not least workers' party rapporteurs, who have been out in the newspapers with numbers. Then it often turns out that you may not have taken into account the entire picture, like Stavanger, who was out saying they were missing 85 million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. It turned out that they had not taken into account that there was a lower wage and price increase in 2020 and that they were already compensated for a higher wage and price increase. And then the equation looks completely different. – So it is important to have close contact with the municipalities, and I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3687	Many of us have a lot of contact with the municipalities for the time being because they are struggling. They also report that they have difficulties in getting the budgets to jump. Many of the municipalities that have approached me are municipalities that have not had a major outbreak, but have still had a large cost of the infectious work that they must have – both when they were at home school, for the strategy of infection and for cleaning, for example. They report that it is not included in the money to be distributed, because they have to go to the municipalities with the biggest expenses. Then the question is, have I understood this correctly: is it also the government's opinion that the other municipalities should not have any of these discretionary means that are now granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3700	We are now working to ensure that the municipalities that have had particularly high expenditures are covered. However, this does not mean that other municipalities will not also have their expenses covered. That's why it's important for me again to stress that the end line for the Corona 2020 year is not set until April. Only when we get the financial statements for 2020 will we know how well we've made. Our ambition is to hit as best as possible. So it's almost impossible to get exactly heads for heads. And the municipalities have a slightly different practice of how they calculate extra costs and less income as well. Therefore, the role of the State is extremely important in this work, that they have close contact with their municipalities, and that the municipalities ensure that they report to the State the expenditure and assumptions on which their calculations are based. It's important for us to be able to do the best possible job. Our intention is quite clear. Then it is difficult to meet 356 municipalities in the crown, and I am absolutely sure that Andersen's representative understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3707	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3714	It's very important what the Council of State says now, that the state records the needs in the future. Then it's important that the Council of State and the government also follow up what comes from the statesmen, because it's probably a much more detailed overview than what KS has in its systems. At least they tell me they don't have that overview. Then it is important that the promise – the guarantee – that the Storting has given, and that the government has given, to cover both corona-related extra costs and income losses, will also last next year. Now the Council of State says that he will come back again in April. Then it is also important that the municipalities are informed that they can have it to trust, so that they do not have to start withdrawing their budgets early in the year because they still have some unpaid bills. That we all agree on that, I think it's incredibly important now. I am concerned – I get many messages now, also because health professionals and teachers in the municipalities are tired, they really need more colleagues now and not less. We're going to recruit and keep a whole bunch of people like the welfare state, the municipalities and we need, all of them, and then we can't face the crisis we have now, sitting and looking forward to finding some temporary position or half a position we can pick away. We really need more, because the Koronacrisa has shown that it's too little to go on when there's a little bit more demanding situations. And I think that situation unfortunately is going to last at least a little bit out next year. Then we all hope that the vaccines can be both so good and so widespread that they can help normalize the situation, but we don't know yet. So there's a great need to get a really good foundation, and that we stick to that promise for the whole next year, that we're back in a normal situation. So a little bit to this by suggesting additions in aging. So it was done in the previous round, in the previous debate now, in the health debate, and it has also been done in the financial balance that is a compromise between the government parties and the Progress Party. Of course, it is fully possible to use these etiology to correct things that need to be corrected, to act on a completely critical corona situation, but also to pursue policies. It's completely legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3723	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3740	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3747	Prop. 101 LS was handed over from the government to the Stortinget more than six months ago. Consultation has been carried out. Many questions have been asked from the Committee to the Government, and the Constitutional Department of the Stortinget has been actively involved. We are not finishing this case today either. On 10 November, the majority of the Committee decided to apply to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy for a partial vote to deal with questions relating to the use of constitutional provisions in the proposal. The Presidency gave a clear signal on 12 November. The reason why the EU wants a fourth railway package is that the offer to travellers in Europe should be improved. The number of rail passengers has increased sharply in Norway and elsewhere in Europe in recent years. Finally, there is a great deal to be done on the railways. But there's one area that doesn't have the same increment. There are rail offers between countries in Europe. When we travel abroad, we choose flights instead of trains. This will change the fourth railway package. The fourth rail package of the EU makes it easier to drive trains across Europe. The fourth railway package is not a sneak message in the EU, which the opposition fears. It is a sensible cooperation that removes obstacles. We need a common rail system. The railway package is not a red tape either. There are common solutions that contribute to better provision for travellers. From having to apply for a driving licence in each country, there will now be one application — obviously a simplification, not more paper mills. The majority of the Stortinget are afraid that the fourth railway package is unconstitutional because the authority is transferred to the EU Railway Agency. The Department of Justice and Defence has clearly concluded that the transfer of authority is of little intervention and therefore not of a non-constitutional nature. There are several votes which question the assessments made in the proposal, and in particular a statement dated 17 April of this year, by Professor Christoffer Conrad Eriksen, has been drawn up. After the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice in a comprehensive letter on 25 August responded to what the fourth railway package really means for Norwegian railway legislation, I had hoped that we had realised that a small in-depth transfer of authority would lead to modern and safe train operation. Adapting regulations to areas of competence in interconnection and licensing is natural when we have introduced tendering regimes for railway operations in Norway. It will continue to be the Stortinget and the government that will determine Norwegian railway policy. Norwegian authorities shall carry out inspections and inspections. State Railway Surveillance has expressed to the Committee as a whole at a previous meeting that it is good that ERA, the abbreviation of the European Railway Agency, with which they are working closely today, should be given an area of competence in a technically well-regulated area. The ERA is responsible for a detailed and technical regulation with little room for discretion. Paragraph 83 of the Constitution is not used in Norway for a very long time – exactly nine times in 200 years. After the introduction of parliamentaryism, it was used only twice – in 1933 and 1945. There were totally extraordinary situations and questions. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and SV are asking for advice from the Supreme Court. There has never been a tradition in the Norwegian state administration that the Supreme Court makes non-binding considerations. It is my view and that of the Left to assess the scope of the Constitutional Law. Revivaling Section 83 may result in a shift in today's distribution of power. The majority has developed and used little interventional authorities over several decades in a number of cases. Let's say that the Supreme Court has a view of participation in the fourth railway package. What are the consequences of this for the future distribution of power? Is it any longer the Big Thing that decides? I believe that the question that is now sent to the Supreme Court should and should be decided in Stortinget. So it's the rail links from Norway to Europe we're talking about here. That's essentially what Prop. 101 LS is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3770	Let me make it clear first: today's debate is not about the content of the fourth rail package of the European Union. The debate is about the principle issue of Norway, which could form part of the fourth railway package. If Norway does, we will transfer decision-making powers to the ERA European Railway Agency and to the European Court of Justice. It is then possible to discuss whether we also transfer powers to the European Commission. There's a fight between the learned. However, there is at least full agreement that it is a matter of transferring powers to the ERA and the European Court of Justice. Although the transfer of authority can be said to be limited, there is a real transfer of authority and there is a transfer of authority to the EU, of which Norway is not a member. Thus, this is a breach of the so-called topillary structure, where the EU and EFTA have parallel systems and institutions. It's unusual to do it this way. Both in relation to the issue of EU financial supervision and in relation to the third energy market package and the Acer, the two-pillar structure was used, i.e. the transfer of powers to EFTA bodies — bodies in which Norway is a member. The Constitution provides for the possibility for Norway to transfer powers to international bodies. Paragraph 26 of the Constitution regulates how we can conclude agreements of international law by a simple majority in the Stortinget. The Constitution § 115 regulates how we can join, and the possibility of transferring authority to, international bodies in which Norway is a member, by a three-quarters majority. In other EU/EEA cases, we have often had a debate on whether the case should be dealt with under Section 26 or under Section 115. We do not have that debate on the issue of the fourth railway package. Connection to the fourth railway package cannot be treated according to § 115 – only according to § 26 – because it is a matter of transfer of authority to bodies where we are not a member. However, it also means — according to long practice — that if the transfer of authority is ‘more than not intervening’, Norway simply cannot join the fourth railway package. The government argues that the transmission of authority in the fourth railway package is ‘low intervention’. There's a disagreement about that. A significant capacity in the field, jusprofessor Christoffer Conrad Eriksen, concludes with the opposite of the government, namely that the transfer of authority to ERA and the European Court of Justice is ‘more than minor’, among others. because it is a one-sided transfer of authority. In the view of Eriksen, Norway cannot join the fourth railway package, and he is not alone in saying so. At the end of the day, the Grand Duchy has to take the final assessment of whether the transfer of authority is ‘low’ or ‘more than small’, but since the Constitution describes the possibility of obtaining the judgment of the Supreme Court on legal issues, the majority of people want to take advantage of that possibility in this specific case. The interesting thing in this case, and the government should be able to answer, is: why is it not set up to use the two-pillar structure of the EEA Agreement? If similar bodies had been set up in EFTA, where we are a member, we would probably not have been there today. But here one has chosen a system of transfer of authority to EU bodies. Then we cannot – almost on autopilot – just say that the transfer of authority is ‘low intervention’. In Norway, there is a clear distinction between state powers. We do not want a system in which courts judge or control political decisions. The policy assessments on the fourth rail package of the EU are the Stortinget. It is also the Stortinget that will take the final decision on Norway to join, and whether Norway will join the fourth railway package. However, since the case raises so many fundamental and legal questions, it is the view of the majority that we now use the opportunity we have in the Basic Law § 83, and obtain the judgment of the Supreme Court. We look forward to the decision tonight and to the judgment of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3798	The purpose is devoted to the drug, it's called. Four games have come together under this motto, but there are different points of view. The working party will buy out time to avoid any decision in the case of the fourth railway package – not because they are necessarily against the EEA Agreement, but because they are against any change to the railway. For the Workers' Party, consideration of the railway monopoly is more important than the principle of power distribution. In purely American style, the party wants to raise the Supreme Court to a Supreme Judge who is to tell the Storting about where the limit of national parliament's power will go. The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, on their side, are declared EEA opponents and see this as a golden opportunity to weaken the EEA Agreement by putting in place obstacles to proper cooperation. For the Advance Party, it seems more to be for internal use, since they have at least declared that they will take note of the Supreme Court's assessment and vote for Prop. 101 LS for 2019-2020 where the Supreme Court relies on the same interpretation on which the proposition is based. The matter is, after all, arranged by their own state council. But there's a reason to ask what the other three parties think about this. Is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV willing to bow to the Supreme Court's assessment, or is this only part of the Filibuster Act? Do you want to use the time and competence of the Supreme Court to determine something that they will in any case not listen to? If that's what I think, the three parties will in any case not vote for the fourth railway package of the European Union. Then the Supreme Court is actually drawn into a party political game, which itself places the Supreme Court in an impossible position. A legal aspect of the integration of the fourth railway package of the EU is well-lit both in Prop. 101 LS and by the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice. That's what we're dealing with in all the EEA matters, and that's how it has to be. If we can't trust the departments of our own system, who are we to trust? I would like to refer to the note of 27 November 2020 from the Constitutional Department here on the house, where a thorough account is given of the relationship with the Basic Law § 83 in a historical perspective. It is interesting to note that in 2008 the Red-Green Parties, in the context of the treatment of the Law on Landfills, adhered to principles that have been applied in the past and beyond, namely that it is up to the Storting as a legislative authority to decide on the understanding of the Constitution and to consider questions of its composition and jurisdiction. Then the three parties added: ‘It is also important to maintain this practice in the interests of the independence of the Supreme Court if the court is subsequently to rule on matters relating to the relationship with the Constitution.’ [[...]] This case concerns the transfer of powers to an international association to which Norway is not a member and will not join. On some previous occasions, the majority has agreed on the basis of the second paragraph of Section 26 to transfer the small intervention authority to bodies of which Norway is not a member, e.g. European Aviation Safety and Chemicals Agency. Without this possibility of consenting to such transfers of powers, Norway will be prevented from transferring even very limited powers to such international bodies, or will be dependent on negotiating specific solutions that will be constitutionally acceptable to Norway. What makes this matter serious is the scenario of the Constitutional Department in the end: ‘However, it cannot be ignored that an assessment by the Supreme Court which, on a general basis, cast doubt on the fundamental legality of the Grand Duchy’s practice in this field could have an impact on the validity of the previous consent of the Grand Duchy. [[...]] [[...]] However, there is reason to believe that the Supreme Court will be cautious in stating that the long-term practice of the Grand Duchy in this area is unconstitutional, with the consequences it may have.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3823	It's a historic day today, where we actually use § 83 and ask the Supreme Court for consideration. The reason why the Progress Party wants to do this now is that more questions have been asked and have become a discussion about this. I also believe that in the Committee's position, the four parties behind the majority have made it clear and clear about the background to the need for the Supreme Court to carry out this assessment. It's about the transfer of authority to other international bodies we're not members of, and knowing how far and what you define, and at least what the Supreme Court thinks is the renunciation of authority and the transfer of authority to other bodies. That's why the Progress Party is now behind this. And there is no doubt that there are party colleagues of mine who have also been very concerned about this issue and have raised it before, but who have not then received a majority for it, but who are going to get a majority like there are now four parties behind it. I believe that this is important, and I hope that the High Court will deal with the matter quickly after the Storting has transferred the proposition from the government, the committee's suspension and decision, as well as this debate as a background. It would also be correct for the Supreme Court to deal with this matter in plenary and for relevant organisations and legal experts to be invited to make their views known, not only in writing, but it is well for the Supreme Court to assess whether anyone should be invited to make their views known orally. This, of course, is up to the Supreme Court to decide for itself. This use of Section 83 of the Constitution and treatment both in the Grand Duchy and in the Supreme Court could constitute precedent, and therefore this becomes an important historical event.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3836	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee for its cooperation, which has led to this part-session of Prop. 101 LS for 2020-2021, proposing amendments to the rail law, etc., as part of the implementation of the fourth railway package in Norwegian law. The centre party refuses to allow Norwegian railways to be subject to the fourth rail package of the EU. If this package is adopted, we know one thing about the content: The package contains tendering on Norwegian railway, and it is the Senterpartiet absolutely opposed because we believe that the Norwegian landfill must be able to determine how Norwegian rail is to operate. If Stortinget is to operate Norwegian rail without postponing its operation, it must be possible without being tied up by the fourth rail package of the EU. However, the legislation of the market pillar of the fourth railway package requires fragmentation and competitive outsourcing. It becomes mandatory to outsource passenger traffic, regardless of what the Storting believes is reasonable or not. Someone's asking us, which is opposite the fourth railway package, if we're opposed to cross-border train traffic. Of course, it's not the Center Party. The fourth railway package of the EU is not about cross-border driving, in fact, although Gunne’s representative is trying to pull up this false dilemma in his post. For example, the EU country Finland entered into an agreement on cross-border train services with Russia after the adoption of the fourth railway package in the EU. But there are many other things to ask questions about, for example: in the case of pay and working conditions. What does it mean that a statutory right is replaced by a reference to a regulation? Although the proposal does not represent a change in substance, the LO considers that there is a clear deterioration and there is no reason to believe that the LO considers this to be incorrect. The central party believes that the transfer of authority provided by the Ministry of Transport with its bill does not have coverage under the Constitution. The provisions of the Basic Law to waive the sovereignty of § 115 apply when Norway is a member and where jurisdiction is transferred in a limited area, and decisions under § 115 require a majority of three-quarters. Now the government wants to use the second paragraph of Section 26, on the grounds that the transfer of authority to ERA is ‘lowly invasive’. This is a political manoeuvre by the government to get a decision in the Grand Duchy with general majority voting, and this is a point that speaks of asking for the Supreme Court's judgment. The opinion of the Supreme Court will be advisory, but the centre party hopes that this consideration will cause more parties to deal with this matter in a wise manner that does not weaken the authority in this Chamber. The parties do not believe that, in their assessment, the Supreme Court should base its assessment on the long-term practice of the Storting in order to consent to so-called non-interventional transfer of authority under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. The centre party does not wish to lead the Court of Justice’s assessment. If that assessment has a value, they must be absolutely free without being led by the Storing. The centre party clearly believes that the fourth railway package is not a ‘small interventional transmission’. When a deposit gives up the right to choose whether to operate the Norwegian railway by reintroducing direct award without competitive tendering as a general rule, this is a large transfer of authority to a body of which Norway is not a member. A legal point made by Professor Christoffer Conrad Eriksen states that ‘transfer of authority to the European Railway Agency, the Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union will be a breach of the specific decision-making process of the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement’. If the Centre Party had changed the guiding principles of the EEA Agreement, it would have meant more national freedom of action, and not less, as this implies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3855	Today we are not going to discuss the so-called railway reform. I'm not tempted to go into that factually, as the Center Party might have done. What we are now going to discuss is national control, national governance, with important Norwegian infrastructure and where decisions on Norwegian railway policy will be taken in the future. Should they be taken by Norwegian authorities or by EU bodies? SV believes that the disadvantage of giving up national sovereignty will be clearly greater than the benefits of adopting the railway package IV. Coordination and standardisation can, of course, be done quite well independently of some railway packages. I will come back to that in a later article. The bill and consent proposal violates the premise of the EEA Agreement and the typilar system, as the representative Myrli also did. The transfer of authority will take place here directly to EU bodies, i.e. to a body of which Norway is not a member, and not to EFTA/ESA. We must make this clear. Nevertheless, the government will propose this, and they use the legal basis in the second paragraph of the Constitution. But the Storting should be aware that this is not based on the wording of the Constitution itself. It is ‘according to safe constitutional practice’, as the Act Department wrote in the Acer case. The government considers that the transfer of authority in this case is ‘low in intervention’ and can be carried out by a general majority of the Stortinget under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. We now know at least three legal assessments on this issue. One came from the government in the first round through the proposition, the other came after the opposition pressed to get the Law Department to assess the law in this, and the last came from a heavy, external legal environment, with Professor of Public Law, Christoffer Conrad Eriksen, at the head. So what the government meant from day one is pretty clear. What about the Law Department? They have actually benefited from the Ministry's interpretation, saying: 'We have not conducted independent investigations to identify possible cases of transfer of authority, but have based ourselves on the descriptions in Prop. [[2019-2020]] 101 LS The external legal environment, with Professor Eriksen at its head, has clearly concluded that railway package IV involves a transfer of national authority that is more than «small in intervention» and that the second paragraph of the Basic Law cannot therefore be applied – for several reasons. The European Railway Agency is empowered to certify the safety of train companies operating on Norwegian rails. This is also apparent from the assessments of the Legal Service. Norway simply loses the right to reserve itself for new rules, which may still come from Europe, and decides whether to enter into the EEA Agreement. So to a point that has to do with constitutional practice, and then I might especially ask the representative Igstad to listen. Professor Eriksen says in the 2015 Journal of Legal Science: ‘We are therefore facing a situation in which during the last years the Stortinget has taken several decisions which, according to the Supreme Court and other legal experts, are or may be contrary to the Constitution.’ Furthermore, he says that there is a ‘need to strengthen ex ante control of the decisions taken by the Stortinget.’ In a comment on three of the judgments, given in plenary in 2010, the then Supreme Justice Justice Tore Schei has said that there is ‘reason to ask the question of the system and the quality of the ex ante control of draft law in relation to the Constitution is as we should have”. According to Schei, it would be ‘astounding to allow the 2010 plenary rulings to become history without going into an assessment of whether the prior control of draft legislation is the way it should be’. Professor Eriksen adds: ‘This may indicate that the Stortinget, by obtaining observations from the Supreme Court before final decision is taken, will be able to supplement the government’s ex-ante control and contribute to a broader explanation of whether proposed legislation is within the Basic Law’. – This is a little important to bring with you. There are important assessments from former Supreme Justice Justice Schei. Thus, in the 26-year history of the EEA Agreement, there are few examples of similar exceptions to the top pillar structure that governments are now introducing in the railway package. I think we should let the Supreme Court think thoroughly through this. It's going to be exciting to see what the outcome is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3886	Red's vision is clear: the railroad will transport people around the country, not money out of the country. Therefore, Red wants to have a common railway under state control, operating without profit motives. The fragmentation and privatisation with which the government operates, including within the railway field, destroys the good common solutions we have in Norway. Ensuring continued democratic control of your own railway policy is just the first step towards ensuring a good rail offer to people in our country. We believe that privatisation is not the answer to the challenges facing the railways. The government will sell out what should become our time's most important infrastructure, and with the EU's fourth railway package, we lose the ability to fully determine the safety and organisation of the railway. Tenders, privatisation and outsourcing become mandatory for the future, and if the government pushes on us the fourth rail package of the European Union, we cannot take the railway back into state ownership, even if a majority in the Storting would like to do so after future elections. It is fundamentally undemocratic. What we need, rather than remote control from Brussels and the EU, is to upgrade our network, reduce prices, get double tracks from south to north, high-speed trains, more goods on the track, multiple trains, more sleeping cars, more departures. That is what we need, rather than the government's policy of privatisation and liberalisation and fragmentation of our railways. We've seen some of the results of the government's railway policy so far. We've got a lot of new companies with a lot of new directors, all of whom are going to have millions of wages – so it's called more efficient in the world of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party – while the employees on the trains take the bill. Those who clean the trains keep it nice and clean and tidy for us there, get cut in their terms to finance, among other things. The million-dollar salaries of the directors at the top. We think that's the wrong way to go. We also know that despite increased appropriations for infrastructure, there is a large lag in maintenance, which is still increasing and which requires much larger appropriations to be recovered. That's where the key is to strengthen the railway – to resume the aftermath rather than give more power and authority to the Union that most of us don't want to enter. We saw a fine example of the blessings of privatisation when Go-Ahead took over the Sørlandsbanen. Then they got the bonus because they were able to run the trains in time. They got a bonus to do the job that NSB was able to do in the past. That's interesting. Red means that the Stortinget will retain the right to rule over the future railway. We get safer and better train journeys without interference, over-management from the EU, and the decision here today to ask the Supreme Court to assess whether we can transfer authority to the EU and the European Railway Agency, ERA, is just the first step to take the railway back into the Community. Then we also have to have a settlement with the fragmentation, the privatisation, the fragmentation of the railway that the government has implemented. It makes the railway less efficient. The NSB could use all available train equipment 24 hours a day on different lines and distances. There was a economies of scale that are now gone, because Vy can't borrow trains from Go-Ahead, and Go-Ahead can't borrow wagons from e.g. SJ, the Swedish railway etc. It's only in reverse countries that it makes sense to split up the railway to make it more efficient. The logical thing is that we say no to the European Railway Agency, that we gather the company, take advantage of the economies of scale, get a more efficient and seamless railway and spend less money on paying directors for million wages in 14 different companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3907	The Storting treats a partial setting today. The Storting asks the Supreme Court for a question under Section 83 of the Constitution. That's what I'm recording. Saka then lies here in Stortinget. I want to start with the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice saying just about this issue. Of course, the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice is independent, and they say: ‘In our view, the transfer of administrative authority resulting from the possible integration of the fourth rail package of the EU into the EEA Agreement appears, as set out in Prop. [[2019-2020]] 101 LS They also say: ‘restrictively affects important political or social interests.’ [[...]] So it's clear what the Justice Department says about this case. We own and run our own rail system, and we, as the EU's own Member States, will be free to choose our national means of action to bet on the railways according to what is best for Norway. We will also be free to choose our own model for the organisation of the sector. We are free to design the public purchased train service as best suited to Norway and collect the collective service. Our authorities will supervise and control the operation of the railways in Norway and are free to stop operations that are not considered safe enough. The European Railway Agency, ERA, has for several years its central body for railway engineering and safety. Norway has always taken part in its work through the EEA Agreement. Norwegian authorities, in particular the State Railway Authority and the State Emergency Commission, participate in the Agency’s work in the same way as experts from EU countries. It is important to be aware of the scope of the Agency’s new authority task. The Agency shall take decisions to print out licences and certificates of security and, where appropriate, to revoke or limit their validity. In this debate, I would also like to pay particular attention to what the Agency should not do. They shall not grant permission to the infrastructure and shall not supervise and control operations. These tasks are at the disposal of national security authorities and there is a clear division of work between national authorities and the Agency. Norwegian rules shall be reviewed by the State Railway Authority in all cases where the Agency has decision-making powers in matters relating to Norway. Applicants may also choose that the State Railway Authority is the right authority where the use is restricted to Norway. This will apply in many cases. In the course of the debate, there are also questions about a simple top pillar solution where ESA may only have a formal decision-making authority and base its assessments and recommendations on the Agency, for example. has it with the Financial Supervisory Authority. The government decided whether this was taken before I joined the state council, but I agree with the decision that was taken not to move forward on that track. This is because no real added value would be given to the EFTA pillar, for in any case there would be a involvement of the Railway Surveillance Authority in the Agency’s proceedings when applicable to Norwegian rules and in subsequent supervision. It would also give more cumbersome processes when the aim of this package is to reduce the number of authorities involved and create more uniform processes to help the railway. It's also quite natural, I'd say, to follow the path that we've done in aviation. We should now do that for the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3940	The Minister of Transport made a clear statement, but when I listen to the representatives of the government parties in the debate, I realize that they strongly warn against what it now seems to be becoming a majority in the Stortinget. When we dealt with the Stortinget Third Energy Market Package and Acer in 2018, the Christian People's Party promoted – and it would be unnecessary to recall who was party leader in the Christian People's Party in 2018 – a proposal that the Stortinget should ask the Supreme Court in accordance with the Basic Law § 83 to draw up a legal opinion on not just the connection to the third energy market package and Norway's connection to the Acer, but on a general basis Norway's relationship with the EU's supervisory authorities and agencies. If it is irresponsible today to ask the Supreme Court for an assessment, why was it responsible in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3945	In my post, I did not comment on what the Storting might do to the Supreme Court. It'll be a matter for the Storting. I thought it was important to say, when I will now reply to the reply from the representative Myrli, that there is a very clear legal basis. I thought that in what the Ministry of Justice's law department points out here about the large majority of people asking the Supreme Court to assess, there is a clear recommendation, and the Department of Justice's law department is the unit we go to. They're independent, and they say that this authority transfer is limited, and that's what I'm thinking. That's why I think a two-pillar movement, as I said in my post, will give a limited benefit, and so I also think it's wise to follow what's underlying this proposition when the matter is re-treated in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3950	It's okay, but it was not really an answer to my question. The law department also gave its opinion on the issue of the third energy market package and the Acer. I would say that the law department expressed itself to the greatest extent. The Committee has also asked the Minister for Transport where he answers that he considers that it is not appropriate to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court. My question is: Why was it responsible to do so in 2018? That is how one should interpret the proposal of the Christian People's Party in that matter. It was a general assessment of Norway’s relationship with EU supervision and agencies. It was clearly responsible in 2018, but after what I have heard from speakers from the government parties today, it is irresponsible to ask for it in this specific case in 2020. My question is, and I repeat it: why is that not right, and why do government figures believe that it is irresponsible to ask for such an assessment in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3955	I have not said anything about what is responsible or not responsible, but I have said, and I would like to repeat it, that it is not necessary. With the basis of this proposition, the Storting may, on a safe basis, adopt this proposition on the basis of the second paragraph of Grundlova § 26, with universal plurality. There's been such a clear lead from both the government through the proposition and the Ministry of Justice's law department. That's my lead for this. I have had the opportunity to go into this matter thoroughly, both in the dialogue we have had directly with the EU and in the preparatory work here. I am very sure when I give the clear recommendation, and therefore my answer today is that there is no real basis for asking the Supreme Court for an assessment in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3962	I'll make it very simple and clear. The Council of State says that the legal assessments and what have been taken into account are so clear that he is fully convinced that this is no problem. Why, then, do you have so high shoulders to get the case assessed by the Supreme Court, so that we get our highest court to assess this as to what is the extent to which this transfer of authority is actually?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3967	This is a matter of a fairly technical nature. She's about a detailed technical area that, yes, gives a certain degree of authority transfer. I mean it's probably not that kind of question, when the Storting first chooses to ask the Supreme Court for a settlement, I think should have our priority number one, two or three. I'm going to register what the Stortinget is probably going to do tonight, but I'm going to see as far as the assessment of the Supreme Court comes, and it has a rather relaxed relationship with it. I have no reason to believe that questions will be asked about the assessments made by the government in the proposal, or that we have received so clearly from our own department, the Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3974	The Christian People's Party has embraced the EEA Agreement as a compromise on the EU issue, because the party considered Norwegian interests protected by the double-track or the top-pillar system: an EU track and an EFTA track, side by side. This would guarantee that Norway would never transfer authority directly to EU bodies and be forced into single-track, right to Brussels. It is not to be understood that the Council of State of Hareide will now undermine the two-pillar system on which the EEA Agreement is based. Doesn't the Council of State see him going to the front to deviate from and undermine the top pillar system of the EEA Agreement, which the Christian People's Party has voted for?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3979	I'm not in agreement with that assessment, but I agree that the Christian People's Party is very concerned about the EEA Agreement. We see him tending the country very well. We see that the conclusion of the EEA Agreement is stronger than ever after we concluded that agreement. He is, among other things, to give us the vaccine now at the end of this year and out in the first half of 2021. So to the toppillar system, yes, we've done it in some areas, but in other areas, we've chosen not to have it, among other things. in the case of aviation, which is also a technical area. I think for the railway, there are some of the same paths. I believe that choosing a so-called technical top-pillar solution, where ESA does not have that kind of technical competence, is a wise solution to choose, just the same way as for the railway, as we have done for aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3986	NTB today reported that the exemption from the tyrilar structure is being met with scepticism within the EEA Surveillance Authority ESA. I expect the Council of State to know that message today. Externally, the monitoring body is cautious in its opinions, says NTB in the notice, but reference is made to the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in the autumn where ESA President Bente Angell-Hansen issued a rather unusual warning: "We have seen that the agencies have not only come to stay, but are becoming more and more important. We believe it is time to see that the EEA-EFTA pillar is doing well in this development to stick to the top pillar structure that makes the EEA Agreement so unique. The three EEA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein claim that the two institutions under the EFTA pillar are ‘strong and solid’, she maintained.’ Has the State Council understood the principles underlying the EEA Agreement better than the ESA President, to whom he often listens?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e3998	I think there's good reason to listen to the ESA president. What I think is important in understanding the top pillar system in this context is that it would possibly have been a formal decision-making authority, where ESA would also have based its decisions and assessments on recommendations from the Agency, i.e. ERA in this case. We've chosen the two-pillar solution a few times. We have also chosen the opposite solution, including: in the case of aviation. Actually, I think that when we compare rail and aviation, we see a lot in common in this. Here, we need important skills through, for example: The European Agency, and we are dealing with emergency situations if we exercise supervision on our own, and yes, there is also a certain degree of authority transfer, but as I have repeated several times, it is limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4005	The fact that the parties have different views about railway policy is an honest thing. Some parties believe in privatisation, fragmentation, fragmentation, cuts in pay terms for the cleaners, several directors. Other parties may have a slightly more constructive view of what will give a good railway. The fine thing is that in Norway, elections can bring the population back to life, and then the parties that get the majority can implement the policy they have gone to. It is part of the core of a living democracy. We have learned that from school – probably both Hareide and I. The problem here is that by transferring power and authority to an EU body, power and authority over the railways are given away, that one can get a political one-way drive in the Grand Duchy, even if the majority of the Grand Duchy wants something else. How democratic is it really to move power out of this hall and over to the EU over something as important as the railway of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4013	If the Stortinget chooses to say yes to the fourth rail package of the EU, we are free to choose our own model for the organisation of this sector. We are free to design the public purchased train service as best suited to Norway and collect the collective service. That's exactly what I used in my post. There are some leaders here, and there are some adjustments. But there are also absolutely some possibilities for our organisation of this sector. I think that the competition we have seen in this sector is good for the railways. We see that it has given huge billions of revenue to our community, which we can use to invest in the railways. And maybe that was one of the reasons why we could get to, among other things. the great railway effort in the budget we are going to discuss tomorrow, with an increase of, among other things, 6 B.C.E. kr only for railway applications for 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4022	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4029	There is a different view of the concrete consequences for the railways that have led to the decision that we are now discussing in this sub-position. A basic value of the Norwegian People's Government is that decisions under Norwegian citizens are to be taken by Norwegian elected representatives who can be replaced in elections. Over the last few years, we have seen repeated examples of the right-wing parties giving sovereignty to the people elected to the Grand Duchy of the European Union bureaucracy in Brussels. We have seen it in the case of Acer, on the EU financial supervision, where Stortinget gave up Norwegian control and power over energy policy, and that the EU can take binding decisions against Norwegian financial undertakings. The Central Party has taken the fight against these directives from Brussels. Unfortunately, the right-wing parties have made sure that they have a majority. The last in the series of proposals for a waiver of sovereignty from the government is the railway package IV. Railway package IV consists of two parts. It consists of the market part, which opens up the possibility for train companies established in a Member State to offer services in all, which means that all train routes must be tendered. And that's the technical part, which is about rail companies not having to apply for licences and certificates in each country. The ERA of the EU Railway Agency will now issue these for the whole EU area. National rules shall be reduced and eventually deleted without taking into account differences in geographic situation and different assumptions between countries. With the railway package IV, the government will decide that the Stortinget will transfer power and authority over the railways from Norwegian elected representatives to the EU system in Brussels. The Government considers that the rail package IV involves a small in-depth transfer of authority to the EU and that the Stortinge may adopt the case by a general majority. The EU Railway Agency lays down new EU rules for approval in Norway, regardless of whether the Norwegian authorities have taken a decision on whether to include the new EU rules in the EEA Agreement. If the railway package IV is adopted by the Stortinget, a mandatory and irreversible competitive outsourcing of passenger services in Norway is introduced. This means that if, after 2021, the majority of Stortinget wants a state full-time Vy to be in charge of passenger transport, it will not be possible under railway package IV. This therefore weakens the Norwegian Constitution, and we are strongly critical of the practice that has been allowed to establish, that important decisions should be assessed on the basis of whether or not they are of little intervention. It would be right in this case to obtain the judgment of the Supreme Court. It's interesting to see that the right-hand side draws out that it may be necessary to change the Constitution. It is very important to stress that it is the Stortinget who will decide, after we have received the judgment of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4048	First of all, I would like to say from an interest point of view that I find it exciting to use § 83, but now aside my personal interest in constitutional fines. What I think Stortinget should think a little bit about, is that if you now go to Höjesterett, after the Stortinget has developed in practice over many years a teaching that the Stortinget can agree to the transfer of small interventional powers to international bodies, based on the second paragraph of the Basic Law, that is to say, the general majority, you have actually turned back from a practice on which the Stortinget itself has built, on which changing governments have built, and on which the Ministry of Justice's law department is also based in its pre-control and quality control of the laws before they get here. Then it is that one should also make sure that the Supreme Court can act as the important body for post-control of the laws adopted by the Stortinget. So this will be a short cut. One of the reasons that § 83 has been used so rarely is that we have just received other agencies that take care of the preparation of the laws, the Ministry of Justice's law department, but also the developed doctrine that the Storting itself is the foremost interpreter of its own decisions. So this is exploited in the issue and conflicts that later arise before the Supreme Court, and where they have to make a decision. Then I want to ask them who are eager to transfer the power of the Storting to the Supreme Court, it is the same people who warn against transferring technically explicit provisions from a railway office nationally to an EU railway office – like the representative Myrli or the representative Gülsvik, whom I see drawn – whether they will put down the sabre when a notice from the Supreme Court might come that, yes, we support the Storting's view that this is a small-scale decision, since they have put so much emphasis on this. My gut will be that they will not give up the resistance, because you are not really interested in the Supreme Court's assessment of this. This whole game has been played because it is hoped that the Supreme Court may come to a different conclusion from what the Ministry of Justice's law department has conscientiously drawn up, and a different conclusion from what the Storting itself has developed as its own practice in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4061	I refer to Sverre Myrli's excellent introduction to the position of the Workers' Party. It has been interesting to sit and follow this debate, because I have seen – contrary to what the representative Tetzschner said now – that no one asks if the Stortinge can transfer authority when there is little intervention. As far as I understand it, what the Committee has been concerned about is this a little intrusive? Well, that's what the Committee's question is in this case. I am very pleased, and there I think the representative Tetzschner and I agree that both the minority and the majority here are so clear that it is at the end of the seventh, and last, the Storting that must draw the conclusion on the relationship with the Constitution. I just want to remind you that this also applies when Stortinget gets an opinion from the department of law. I hear some people kind of give the impression that when the law department has said something, it is like that, and then the Storting must adopt it. No, the Storting must be responsible for its own assessments and conclusions. But it is good that there is agreement on that principle, as far as I understand. Then it is that we have § 83, where it says that the Stortinget can obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court on legal issues. It's true, as it says in the setting, that it's used rarely. There is in itself no argument against using it. It is also referred in the cancellation to former staging president Hambro, who said in 1939 that someone should be withholding from using that option. It was related to the case where the Storting discussed whether one should go from three to four years of parliamentary term, or said in another way: I don't think Hambro said that with a general idea of Norway's future relationship with the EU, so it might be of little relevance in this context. But what's relevant is that the same Hambro at the end of the same quote said, «and that there is only the legal substance of the individual decisions taken in respect of aggregates which may be brought before the courts in the event.» I understand that's what the setting is all about – that someone wants the legal consideration, which Stortinget will deal with. Well, I guess we could say that paragraph has been used a little bit. We might think in retrospect that this is e.g. could have been wondered if the Stortinge had in its time considered the possibility of asking the courts: how do you assess the legal relationship between EEA law and social security law in Norway? But it is clear that we do not want any progress towards what someone has warned against, and I perceive that both the majority and the minority are clear on that and on the mission of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4077	One of the most serious things we elected people in the nation's national assembly can do is to give sovereignty. Behind me on the wall is a picture of the Constitutional Assembly at Eidsvoll. There's a copy of the Constitutional Act in our storage room. It's to remind us of the basic rules of the game, both in order to safeguard the rights of the minority and also in relation to how we should deal with issues relating to giving power to foreign powers. It is stated in the Basic Law § 115 that Norway cannot give sovereignty to non-member organisations. Fortunately, Norway is not a member of the EU, and giving sovereignty to EU agencies and bodies would not be in line with that paragraph. I record that some parties in this room, especially the Right Party, strongly argue against – that there is almost something problematic about getting a opinion from the Supreme Court. If one goes to the Constitution, it is enshrined in the very Constitution that the Storting can ask for such a consideration from the Supreme Court. So we're completely on a safe footing. Those who, on the other hand, are not on safe grounds are those who believe that implementing the EU railway package is in line with the provisions of the Basic Law, and who, according to the representative, Igstad, are also afraid of what it may have in consequence for the assessment of not only this matter, but also of the ability of the government to give sovereignty to the EU in ever-increasing new areas, as has seen in the current period, where one has given sovereignty in the field of finance and put the Norwegian Financial Supervisory Authority into EU financial supervision in important areas. The same applies to energy policy. One thing like this isn't just about engineering, and I'm very surprised at the council. Back in 2018, the Ministry of Transport said that they were concerned about what harmonisation on this road could have a bearing on railway safety, but now it is obviously only technicalities. I hope and look forward to the investigation that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4088	First and foremost to the representative Andersen: Yes, seafaringly, it is the Stortinget that is the legislator, and it is the Stortinget that determines. It was just supposed to be missing. This I think it's 100 pst. agreement in this room. But government and state councils devalue the transfer of authority in many ways, I think, and talk the most about standardisation, to make it easier to coordinate, to make trains easier to drive across borders etc. Standardisation is positive. I know the representative, Gunnes, also mentioned this. It sounds good, people like it, it's easy to sell it with standardisation. If only it had been, this would have been very good. But some examples: Common certificates can be an advantage for those who operate in several countries, we can admit that. But it is not at all a problem to operate in several countries by searching in several countries, as it is today. In fact, it is even faster in the old fashion than what might be the duration of ERA treatment. In Norway and Sweden this applies to several train companies. That's good. So for common vehicle approval — that's another element. It can certainly be an advantage if the countries had a similar infrastructure, but they do not. We can imagine that they had common track gauges, common power supply, common signal system, tunnel heights, widths, etc. They just don't have it at all, and they won't have it in the foreseeable future either. There will still be different track widths, different power supply and not least different geography and climate conditions. It requires different solutions for the choice of e.g.: train. So to the more technical in terms of authority transfer. Yes, the State Railway Authority can apply temporary safety measures, but that is a maximum of three months. So the so-called stop button only applies to three months. After that, the ERA and the arbitration system may terminate them if they consider them to be disproportionate. That's what it says. The Norwegian authorities cannot stop the company once again for the same reasons. Failure to comply with the ERA binding decisions for Norwegian railway operators can lead to penalties and penalties if we do not do as they please, i.e. if we do not implement decisions by an EU body. So it's pretty clear. So to the Supreme Court: Of course, the Supreme Court can go into an assessment afterwards, it has happened after the Storting has made a decision. There could be more entrances to it. We have a somewhat similar and interesting case in principle from 2010 on the Information Society's fund, where the Supreme Court found in a legal case following the Storting decision that it was contrary to the Constitution. During the 2008 Grand Prix, proposals were just made for a consideration from the Supreme Court in advance to § 83, and that proposal stood Right, the Advance Party and – I believe – the Christian People's Party at the back.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4101	As the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, Paragraph 83 of the Constitution is very rarely used by Stortinget, who opens the door to ask the Supreme Court for an assessment of legal issues. After the introduction of parliamentaryism, this has been done only twice – in 1933 and 1945 – and then in very special situations and issues. There are probably good reasons why the Storting has on later occasions rejected this kind of question on a principle basis. It is primarily the task of the Grand Duchy to assess the scope of the Constitutional provisions. In my opinion, there are no good reasons to challenge this principle of power distribution in this case. I Prop. 101 LS for 2019-2020, concerning railway package IV, transfer of authority to ERA has been considered as a small interventional transmission of authority. In our opinion and in my opinion, that is a correct assessment, and that is well justified in the proposition. I note that the majority believe that the deviation from the top pillar structure of the EEA Agreement in this case is an argument for having the case assessed by the Supreme Court. Does it mean, then, that the Workers' Party, for example, would vote for railway package IV if it had been based on the top pillar structure? I doubt it. What is proposed for rail is largely comparable to the corresponding organisation and transfer of authority in aviation. It is a system that has worked well over several years and where EASA has a function comparable to what ERA wants. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence also assessed this case and gave its opinion, which supports the assessment on which the proposition is based. Thus, a comprehensive legal assessment of these issues has been carried out, which concludes that it is a low level of intervention. So, in our assessment, Prop can be. 101 LS on railway package IV is dealt with and adopted by a general majority in Stortinget. I find it difficult to see that this is a matter that is so special that it justifies sending it over to the Supreme Court for assessment. There is also a long practice in the EEA to assess what can be considered as a low level of interventional transmission. I have no reason to believe that the Supreme Court will come to a different conclusion than that underlying it in Prop. 101 LS. Nor is there any reason to believe that the Supreme Court has a desire to change the distribution of power between the Grand Duchy and the Supreme Court, and that it is also in the continuation of the Grand Duchy's task to assess the scope of the Constitution. I experience that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV here use the opportunity to send the case to the Supreme Court mainly to postpone the treatment of the railway package IV, which they will in any case vote against. Then I have greater confidence that the Progress Party will actually make a concrete assessment of an opinion or an assessment by the Supreme Court, and that the party will also take along the lengthy processing of their own government councils has been involved in laying the foundation for government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4114	It is no secret that representatives from the Right are largely EU-related. But that the representative will take the place so easily to shift power bit by bit out of this room and across to the EU, when the Norwegian people have said no to the EU, I think it is both worrying and not trusting. But it was the minister who made me take the floor, because he said that there was good experience with the railway competition. It made me wonder if the minister has heard what the South Seas users think. They are left with a worse offer because Go-Ahead cancels train departures, changes the routes and centralizes the train stops. Political leaders from Vestfold and Telemark had a meeting with Go-Ahead on Friday, and then Go-Ahead promised better information. A few hours later, the news exploded that several departures with the South train were cancelled over the New Year. In the United Kingdom, the home country of Go-Ahead, rail is now renationalised. This can be done because EU directives have been made slumbery and because the United Kingdom is leaving the EU and EU rail legislation. Does the Minister not see that it is extremely unwise to bring Norway into a situation where it is extremely difficult — or impossible — to go back to direct railway allocations? The proposition clearly states that there must be fragmentation and competitive outsourcing. For me, it is totally incomprehensible that the minister can go ahead to define this as a minor matter and to deal with this matter in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. I really look forward to the Court's consideration of this treatment. In the end, I don't think I got a particularly reliable response in the line change when the minister generally talked about the EEA agreement and went in vaccines, after I asked on a principle basis about undermining the top pillar system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4125	I'm not going to turn this debate into a competitive postponement debate, because now it's actually the railway package IV we're discussing, and the basis we have for adopting it or not adopting it. I agree with the representative Andersen that it is Stortinget who must make his assessment, but the best basis we can come to Stortinget with, I think it is the law department of the Ministry of Justice points out. It's our top experts, who have the best basis for giving their assessments. What made me take the floor was what the representative Gielsvik took up for security, because I thought it was important that these debates did not flow together. I know that No to the EU has conducted a survey of 70 pst. by the people who asked believe the security will be weakened by the railway package, but I believe people have responded on a failing basis. I do not believe that the Member States of the European Union and the elected representatives of the European Parliament could find the idea of adopting a regulatory framework capable of weakening railway safety. Just look at the requirements of the Railway Safety Directive, see what is being done by ERA, see their homepages. And we know that the supervision will lie here, we know that we can have national rules. We also know that we can have emergency paragraphs if we think it is necessary. So saying that security is going to go down, I'm going to strongly reject it. And this is a very detailed, technical code, and as I also said, it's written run permissions and security certificates, and one can possibly call them back or limit their validity. That's why I am aware of what I said earlier, that I see almost only benefit from this because it responds to the many challenges faced by the railway sector, and will bring new initiatives and develop Norwegian railways to the benefit of users. This package has come in response to the ongoing structural problems that have sustained the development of the rail system, and the aim is that by further developing the well-established rail systems, we can strengthen the rail system as a mode of transport. I think that we can do this best by continuing to be part of European railway cooperation and linking us to the fourth railway package, and that is what the whole idea of the EU is.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4137	I also agree with Mr Andersen's assessment that the Stortinget should and should not least decide on the law and the Constitution – on its application and when to come into force. That's exactly why we've used a little bit of an intervention concept. It has been very common in many cases in the last decades to use that very term when it is not very intrusive in terms of both the law and not least the practice. Remember: In this case, ERA is in practice getting something more authority. The ERA is there today. The Railway Authority cooperates with them all the time. They say that they are incredibly good, and when Norway makes recordings, they listen and, of course, take with them the Norwegian experts on this and that competence to further develop the European rail system. It is the whole purpose of the railway packages that the EU has implemented. You want more people to take advantage of this fine form of travel. You have succeeded in many areas, but especially in one area you have not succeeded, and that is when you drive between countries. It may be that one of the challenges is that each country has a sovereignty in this regard. The sovereignty continues, but here you work together to find solutions. If there's anyone who wants to drive trains from Hamburg to Oslo, today you have to search four places, four countries to get it done. Now it becomes one place, and there is a common basis for assessing whether that train company is able to carry out these trips. When it comes to the actual assessment of this, I had hoped that the Storting would actually do what we've really done all along. It has been a tradition that the Stortinget decides how the Constitution should be handled, and it is not in the Norwegian state administration that the Supreme Court issues non-binding concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4148	I do not think I received any response from the representative, Gülsvik, nor was it tried by the representative Nävra, and it could also have been addressed to the representative Myrli: Are you looking for legal information on the occasion of the case? Is it the case that one wants to change one's view on whether there is an intrusive or non-interventional transfer of authority when one receives a opinion from the Supreme Court? For legal guidance, it is necessary to turn to the highest judges of the state, not to get political points. And you can get that in a different way. I personally believe that there is no argument that will be given to Mr. Ambush to change your mind on this. In that case, it had to be a transcendental revelation or some personality changer. That may happen, but I don't think we get it in this case. But it just underlines that there are political points, and so you put the Supreme Court into a political role. Then I think it becomes more paradoxical, because one argues that the Storting should no longer be the foremost interpreter of its own decisions and assess the limit of its own competence, but leave it to the Supreme Court. Supreme Court has an important role as gatekeeper and enforcer of the Constitution, but it is in connection with conflicts that come to justice to resolve conflicts that may arise afterwards. It's their role. I would also like to say, since the representative Geelsvik was so inspired by Oscar Wergeland's image Eidsvold in 1814, that it is painted 70 years later, as an indictment against the Ministry of Law Selmer. The Supreme Court's share there thought that the state councils could do whatever they wanted, they didn't have to meet in the Stortinget, so there was the High Court brake block. If the Supreme Court had made up the majority of the national court – that was the Lamentation that constituted it – we would not have had parliamentarianism. So you should be careful to invite the lawyers in if it's a question of interpreting the law of this congregation. It is – as someone has been at the heart of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4159	I have to say I am a little surprised at the case's rapporteur, who is usually a very tidy colleague. I understand that Gunnes is only talking about the content of railway package IV, and very little about what we are discussing today, namely how to deal with the matter, and whether Norway can join. So when Gunnes in his first post used the term «reviving § 83», I find it a strange way to treat the provision of the Basic Law. That provision has been in the Constitution since 1814. In fact, it has got another number, another paragraph, by some constitutional audit – but it has been there all along. I must also say that I thought it was very strange to hear the article to Igstad. He used the term ‘philisterial tactics’, and he also said that it was about drawing the Supreme Court into a political game. Have you heard that, President? I think on behalf of the Supreme Court will complain about such a language. I am absolutely sure that the Supreme Court will deal with this in a thorough and serious way, in line with what is the thinking behind § 83 of our Constitution. And to Tetzschner: No, it's not about transferring the power of the Storting to the Supreme Court, as he said. But it is a matter of obtaining the opinion of the Supreme Court purely legally, as the Constitution § 83 opens, and I have never seen Tetzschner or Right or anyone else as an opponent of § 83. A conclusion to some of the speeches we have heard here today is that it should be removed from the Constitution, the Stortinget should not have the opportunity to obtain the views of the Supreme Court. So I would say, we're not going to ask the Supreme Court for a consideration of the political content of the fourth railway package – someone's been talking like it's what it seems to be a majority for today. No, we're going to ask the Supreme Court to make a statement on the issue of Norway can join the fourth railway package. Therefore, I must also tell the representative Tetzschner that this case cannot be dealt with under the Constitution § 115, because § 115 regulates the membership of bodies in which Norway is a member. I think everyone agrees whether one is too packed or against a pack, whether one is a lawyer there or there, or no matter which party you belong to. We cannot join the fourth railway package of the EU with § 115. So it is only § 26 that is relevant for the connection to the fourth railway package, but then the content of the package must be «smallly intrusive». [[The President clubs.]] That is what we now have to assess to the seventh and last, and is the more than ‘small intervention’, Norway cannot join the fourth railway package.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4170	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4175	Of course, the Storting is making independent choices. Neither the Law Department nor the Supreme Court can dictate the Stortinget. They can give advice, and that's really what we're about to ask: to get further advice. The size has even the possibility to amend the Constitution if necessary. It can actually also the Storting do if there's no clarity in these matters in the future. This case concerns the issuing of powers, whether it can be taken by a general majority or not. That is in a way the consequence of the decisions taken. The centre party fully respects different views on how the railway can be organised, but we have little understanding that the Stortinget should give power to the EU to decide how the railway should be organised in the future. The centre party is at all very skeptical of the creeping practice that has evolved over time in assessing whether something is ‘low’ or not. This thing is very principleal, but it's also very concrete. When more people in this room say that it is ‘a little intrusive’ to make sure that authority is given so that in the future this hall cannot decide how to organise the railway – one cannot say that we are no longer interested in, perhaps with a new majority, that everything should be offered, we want another organisation – and devalue it in the way it is done here, and say that it is technicalities, I think it is very worrying. It's as concrete as it's possible to get it, and that's why the majority have actually assessed this as a matter of principle and have taken the step of asking the Supreme Court for a advice. I think you must have full respect for that, and I am convinced that the Supreme Court also has.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4184	I get some associations that some two hands when you do this! I think it's important to say that this is not to give up power on a general basis. What we give power to is a technical basis. We don't decide how to connect the planes even if they land on the Gardermo. We don't decide how the cars are designed. We have our own safety department in the State Railway Authority, which is in charge of these matters. They were at the hearing of the committee, and they had five points: The fourth railway package will not impair the safety of the railway. Norwegian rail will continue to have one of the highest safety levels in Europe. Regardless of whether the package is adopted, companies in Norway have to deal with ERA if they want to drive to Sweden. Sweden is covered by the fourth railway package and cannot conclude agreements outside the pan-European system. The application for renewal of existing certificates for cross-border traffic must be made in cooperation with ERA. Authorisation for cross-border rolling stock must be granted in cooperation with ERA. The material requirements are the same as those on the basis of which decisions are taken by the State Railway Authority. Norwegian companies operating only in Norway can still deal with the State Railway Authority. In reality, there are very few changes from such a process today. This is the State Railway Authority saying. It's on that basis, with these technical things, that you think this is a relatively modest renunciation of sovereignty. Secondly, for those of us who are busy with the railways, we want to drive high-speed trains, to have trains to Europe – is it not enormously beneficial if Europe appears to be one unit that can run on each other’s railways, that we can drive from Barcelona to Oslo with one company? Should we switch sleeping cars on Lake Corn when we're going to Europe? Is this not really a huge step forward for European railways, for European cohesion, for the climate issue? If we're ever going to be able to get passengers from planes to trains, the train has to go seamlessly in Europe. That's the big thing about this case. Norway can, of course, sit on its high horse and would not be included. That's okay -- the rest of Europe does it because they see the benefit of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4211	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4216	Think if it had been as simple as the representative Igstad said. We had not had this debate here today. It had not been a disagreement, it would have been as simple as the representative said. It's not like that, and we've tried to explain why. Had I had many more posts, I should have explained it even more in detail. But is it not natural that the government parties ask themselves the question: Why is a compact railway environment, all professionals, all trade unions, the Locomotive Association, the Railway Federation – all these train lovers here in the country – against the railway package IV? Isn't it a natural question to ask yourself? The Council of State referred to the Sentio study in No to the EU opinion poll. There it is 58 pst. by people in Norway who say no to railway package IV. There must be a reason for that. Sit down and think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4223	The representative Siv Mossleth has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4228	The representative Tetzschner asked if the Central Party really wanted legal guidance from the Supreme Court. Yes, the Central Party wants this legal consideration. I told you in my main post. The centre party does not want this legal consideration to change the view of the representative, Gülsvik, but to get more parties and representatives, including the representative Tetzschner, to deal with the matter wisely and correctly, which does not weaken the authority in this room, which we will do if the railway organisation is defined as ‘a little intervening’. It is clear that the introduction of tendering procedures on the Norwegian railway is to give up power.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4233	We in the Workers' Party are against railway package IV, but that's not what's going on here today. What is the topic here today is the interpretation, whether the transfer of power – which has also been confirmed by the Council of State – is ‘a little intrusive’ or more than ‘a little intrusive’, for which Myrli did well. Therefore, Section 115 is not an alternative, we must relate to Section 26. And then I can assure the House that if there are things we agree with, and the Storting agrees that this transfer of power is a little bit intrusive, as it has been in some other cases before, we still stand by the assessments that lie behind us. But here the committee wants to be so neat that they'll be sure they don't say it's 'low intervention', if there's uncertainty about it. And it is important to state that we are in favour of the use that has been made of Section 26. But then it's the possibility under section 83, which is not, as was said from the pulpit here in the village, that we ask for advice, but we ask for a remark, a legal statement that Hambro said it was an opportunity to do. It is our whole intention to do this: to be absolutely sure that such a decision is taken, we must be sure that we do not change the practice of the Stortinget – that we have been able to transfer power if it is “a little intervening”. That is the assurance requested by the Committee. As I said, and as others have been involved, insofar as one believes that § 83 is not available for use, I think it would be natural if someone had suggested it deleted. But no one has suggested it to be lifted, and so we see that this is an opportunity where it's natural to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4241	Luckily, the majority in this room now seems to join, is to give a specific order to the Supreme Court to make a statement on whether one can use the second paragraph of Section 26 to agree to participate in the fourth railway package for Norway. There should be interesting knowledge also for those batches that argue against having the resulting assessments, whether the Supreme Court would conclude with no or yes, if yes, but that changes must then be made to the current decision-making basis. It's still up to Stortinget in the end to evaluate what's coming. It's the Storting that makes a decision, it's the Storing that sits with power. The fact that a person asks for a statement to get information from the Supreme Court in that case is not to convince me of what the representative Gülsvik is going to think about the fourth railway package. I will promise the representative, Tetzschner, that I have a quite genuine and clear position on this. That's not what this is all about. It's about how, as elected representatives of the nation's national parliament, we're going to deal with issues related to the renunciation of sovereignty. All parties recognize that it is a renunciation of sovereignty. If the Supreme Court were to give such a consideration, of course, the Supreme Court could also deal with questions in retrospect, just as it does for example. The EFTA Court. They may provide — in their case — advisory opinions relating to cases, but nevertheless the EFTA Court may take decisions on matters which are on their table. To the Council of State: The reason I referred to security was that the Ministry of Transport, on behalf of Norway, in the process has just expressed concerns about what will happen to security in countries with a high level of security, such as Norway, when coordinating legislation. Unfortunately, I see that the Ministry of Transport has changed the reasoning and no longer expresses a concern about security, as one did in the past. However, it is precisely that when coordination between different countries and giving up authority, security is also at stake in countries such as Norway, which has a high level of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4250	It seems that in the course of the evening there will be a majority, when we're going to vote, to get a statement from the Supreme Court. I hope that when the Supreme Court has given its opinion, the parties who have asked for this – whether it is called advice, assessment or consideration – will really consider whether this is ‘small in intervention’ or not. I hope that it is taken seriously, even though I hear that both the Workers' Party and the Center Party say that they are opposed to the fourth railway package. However, if it is to be common practice in Storting, I hope that it will also be followed. Otherwise it might have some consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4255	At least the debate has been marked by the fact that we have been far inside that proposition, and that we are going to discuss later, when we have received the opinion of the Supreme Court. The Advance Party and I believe that it makes sense to make such a reference to the Supreme Court. Then you'll see what that notion ends with, with respect to those who say that this is very small and not a big problem, versus those who think this is very intrusive and therefore want to have it evaluated. I believe this isn't about leaving it to the Supreme Court, because it's the Storting that's going to make the final decision, but it's actually about seeing that you repeatedly use the term "little intervening" when you transfer power. So now there's a majority who want to try this out, get a statement from the Supreme Court, and that's what the majority is now going to do. So I think we're going to get back to the debate on the outsourcing of competition and all the other things that some people have done in today's debate. It comes when we're going to deal with the proposition, and when we've got the opinion from the Supreme Court. It's going to be exciting to see what the Supreme Court thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4266	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4271	To the representative, Gunnes, what we are discussing today is not, therefore, about what one might think of the fourth railway package, where the centre party is a clear opponent. It's about what kind of rules you're going to use. When the EEA Agreement was adopted in its time, one agreed in Stortinget – a majority for it – that one would use Section 93 of the Constitution at the time. One was to use the rules that applied, that one had to have a majority of three-quarters, because a decisive sovereignty in that matter – as well as later, linked to EU financial supervision. It is therefore essential in such a fundamental issue, when it comes to giving sovereignty, that a person also obtains a view from the Supreme Court. So, it's the Storting and the country's elected people who, to the seventh and last, are going to make decisions and make assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4278	The representative Sverre Myrli has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4283	I just have to say to Mr Igstad as a spokesman for the largest government party in the debate today: yes, this is about the transfer of authority. Saying something else is simply misleading. The government believes that there is a transfer of authority. The Department of Justice believes that this is a transfer of authority. Everyone's serious. There is a transfer of authority to the European Railway Agency and to the European Court of Justice, perhaps also to the European Commission – there is some disagreement, but at least there is a clear transfer of authority to ERA and to the European Court of Justice. But how much is the transfer of authority? That's the question. Is the ‘small intervention’ or more than ‘small intervention’? Now we're going to get the Supreme Court's opinion on this, and then we're going back to track widths, tunnel profiles and sleeping cars in other debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4290	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4295	Some of the contributions are marked by the fact that we have not reflected in the agreements we conclude, the conventions we are part of, and the international agreements we have, for example. participates through the UN system, giving sovereignty. The reason why we do this is that, under the Treaty law of the 1969 Vienna Convention on the interpretation of the Treaties, we have applied and accepted the principle of dynamic interpretation. What does that mean? Well, that means that the enforcement agencies, for example, The UN is developing justice and the Convention in addition to the text that has been agreed upon. As participants in the international community, we have already given much greater sovereignty to dynamic processes that the Storting cannot handle. So you could say you can stand out, but that's the reality. If you then see the intense commitment around a technical connection to the railway package, you should at least be interested in the transfer of authority we are part of by Treaty law.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4300	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4317	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4324	About it so that it's case no. 11 which is being debated now, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee for good cooperation in this matter! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4329	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4347	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4354	There's already a rumor that the previous post is one of the better ones I've kept in Stortinget. [[Muntering in the Chamber.]] In this respect, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. So I want to link some comments to her from the Center Party's page. In a sense, what we get here is the policy fascination and crisis management of the government. And there's some I think needs to be pointed out. This applies to the need that the government has for the constant press conferences and the constant markings. But what happens after the flood light is out? Let me take an example: expenditure on statutory maintenance. Here it was going to be a quarter of a billion dollars for business. Working and others were out cheering. Now it turns out that one has set up the scheme so that one has been able to use $18 million. kr. Eighteen million. kr is what business has been allowed to benefit from – not because the need was not there, but because the scheme was so tight that there was no room for any more use. The same was true of package travel: it would bring half a billion dollars to the package travel companies. It was a joy! Looks were out and cheering, and others were out and cheering. Now it turns out that the government wants to withdraw 365 million. kr. In fact, the bulk of the population is content with withdrawing only 305 million. kr. It's not because there's no need out there, but because the government has said that it's enough to cover 60 pst. - They're not getting any more. What I mean is bad crisis management. Then we have sued that a quarter of a billion dollars were introduced in fees for fishing. There was going to be a compensation scheme. Twenty-five million was allowed. kr. The CO 2 tax has been paid from 1 January, but how much has one been compensated for now? Zero! 254 million. NOK withdrawn. One million. Use kr to organize a scheme that gives fishermen zero dollars in compensation. Yeah, maybe one in May next year will get some money. So one is very busy when one is going to charge taxes, and then has a very good time when one is going to pay the compensation. One last point I want to make is that I got 2 billion. kr more in the auctions linked to aquaculture. It was very good, but there the government party and the Progress Party had changed the rules so that one instead of getting 80 pst. Of the two billion coastal municipalities, zero ends up. Everything goes into the state register. Therefore, we are forced to take the word and have a discussion associated with this matter. This is probably partly due to the comments, but the central part goes against I and V in the recommendation, similar to SV and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4380	The Coronapandemic characterises the economic situation both in Norway and in the rest of the world, and over the year the government has put forward a series of measures to get people back to work, to increase activity in Norwegian business and to contribute to long-term value creation in the private sector. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries’ 2020 change programme, which is being discussed today, contains essentially only proposals to adapt appropriations to actual payments this year. The major down adjustments relate to the compensation scheme for the costs of statutory maintenance in seasonal businesses and the schemes of grants and loans to package tour operators, and I have noticed the comments from the committee in the cancellation. The framework for the statutory maintenance support schemes under the Tivoli Act and the Tauban Act was low. The reason for this is that the statutory maintenance costs of the tivoli and cable car companies turned out to be much lower than initially assumed and that many applicants lost a smaller proportion of their seasonal turnover than initially assumed. There was also considerable uncertainty about the need for setting the framework. In the subsidy scheme for package tour operators, there is an upper limit on grants of EUR 800000. This is due to the fact that the scheme was included in the EU’s interim guidelines in order to get the scheme up and running rapidly. Four actors reached this limit after the first round of grants and three additional actors are expected to reach the limit when grants are to be distributed in round two. These companies have been able to apply for loans under the scheme. Those who have reached the grant limit so far are major actors such as Ving, Apollo and TUI. Some of them are part of international giants, and we have to be able to assume that the owners of such businesses take a greater share of the bill than in small and medium-sized enterprises established around the Norwegian community. The total amount of reimbursement applied for is about one third of the estimated amount. The government is working on adapting schemes in 2021 for those parts of the business that are struggling, and I look forward to the debate on these when the Stortinget is going to deal with the state budget for 2021 in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4398	There is a number of package travel companies who have it very, very tough. The Korona situation has hit them hard, and the government has said 40 pst. Coverage is maintained. My question is really whether the Council of State can say something about what's underlying when one thinks that 40 pst. is enough. I also register that, after negotiations in Stortinget, it ends up at 60 pst. support, and the centre party wants to go up to 80 pst. Then my question is, what's a fear going to happen if one goes up to 80 pst? coverage in this system? And think one will save all the workplaces by 40 or 60 pst. Coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4405	This was one of the arrangements that came into place early in ours. So that's the situation, we didn't have the full overview. We had to rely on the estimates we received from market players, from the social partners, and the estimate was set much higher than the amount of the applications turned out to be. Then we made an assessment where we paid 20 pst in the first round, because we had to make sure that everyone got it. It turned out, as I said, that the amounts requested were much smaller than we had first assumed, and then we thought it was natural to take a new round of 40 pst, but we have agreed with Stortinget that the second round should go up to 60 pst. the amount of the grant. That's why there was such an adjustment there. You can always ask yourself if you should do more or less. This is an additional arrangement for these, but they can also make use of other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4412	I noticed that when the scheme was presented, there was a very busy talking. At that time, the loan arrangement was $1.5 billion. kr. Now there's something like 1.3 billion. kr of the money that comes and gets back. It was about half a billion dollars in the support scheme, and then come on in and get back 350 million. That's it. The finance minister often talks about this not like putting a suitcase of money on the street and asking people to come and pick up, but I feel here that the government actually put a safe of money on the street and keeps the code hidden. When companies come to get the money they think they're entitled to, yes, it's largely closed. And when you go on with the statutory maintenance, the amount of the application is 128 million. kr. Then the question is, does the Minister of Industry mean that these companies applied for money they didn't need?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4419	With regard to the scheme relating to the statutory maintenance costs for companies that fall under this Tifoli Act and the cable car law, I think we have to admit that there has probably been an understanding of how to cover other types of expenses than the one provided for by the scheme. The reason why it has been used relatively little is that the operators have not had as large a turnover as they were initially thought to have. Secondly, not all the maintenance costs of these actors are to be covered by this scheme. Other actors are also not covered by their maintenance costs, but because they have a statutory maintenance obligation, we should help to cover the statutory maintenance according to the model of the compensation scheme and the seasonal factor there.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4424	Only to follow up on the maintenance costs-related scheme: the operators have, in the case of alpine installations, amusement parks and travelling amusement parks, statutory maintenance costs other than those imposed by the Tifoli Act and the cable car law. And in terms of the documented costs they relate to those laws, they have still only been paid a small proportion. Until one has had a smaller decrease in turnover: the problem is that one has only laid the foundations of March, April and May for example. travelling amusement parks and amusement parks. There hasn't been a success song in the summer and autumn, on the contrary. If one had calculated a whole season, one would have seen that there was a great need to cover a much larger share. Why has one not been willing to adjust the scheme, despite repeated recordings from both those who are hard hit, and from the Senterpartiet i Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4434	Well, we've also taken the recordings we've got from these actors. It's right, as it was said, that it was delimited in a period of time. This may have made it easier for some actors than for others to use it, for example. tivoli, which has an active season also out in the summer. I've had several meetings with the Tyroleans and the Tyroleans, and one of the things we're doing now is that we're opening up so that they can apply to this event scheme, which we're now working on getting through to ESA and adopted here in the Stortinget. Then, of course, it will be Innovation Norway, which will manage the scheme, which will have to assess each individual application — whether they are qualified and, if so, how much they can get. But it's an example that we're adapting the arrangements to hit a group that's fallen a little bit, better. They had an active season when they should have done that maintenance, and it made it difficult for them to make use of that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4439	I thank you for your answer. It is good that you look at new solutions related to that public open event scheme, but then I hope that the Council of State is of the clear opinion that these are actors who are hard hit by the crisis and who need more help. It does not help simply to refer them to a new scheme if it results in the same result as the maintenance scheme, where they had a large amount of legal costs and were only covered by a small proportion. Can they now expect real help to get through the crisis of this new system?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4446	One of the challenges for both Alpine centres and not least the Tyroleans is that, in terms of the costs they have related to maintenance, only a small part of them were covered by this scheme, because it was directed against the Tifoli law and the cable car law. So that arrangement was snowy; it was supposed to be a snowy arrangement. One of the reasons for this was that other companies – many businesses – have high maintenance costs related to their operations without getting money for it. But because this was so special because of the legal requirement, and because there were seasonal businesses at the beginning of this pandemic, they got a separate arrangement, which was always meant to last only a little while. Now we've expanded the compensation mechanism. It will apply to both the Tyroles and the Alpine centres. But in addition, we are now trying to adapt it so that they can also apply for the event plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4458	The corona pandemic characterises the economic situation in Norway and the rest of the world. The fishing industry is relatively small and its profitability is good in all parts of the fishing fleet. The industry stands out as a bright spot in a year with setbacks on many fields. The pandemic and infectious diseases measures have changed commodity flows, created uncertainty in the value chain and weakened purchasing power in several of the countries to which we export fish. The government's 20-billion-dollar bet on GIEK. kr has contributed to ensuring important exports. The overall objective of the Resource Manager is to facilitate a sound fisheries policy, which is long-term, profitable and sustainable. It is also necessary to reduce the climate impact of the fishing industry. It is therefore necessary to invest in climate-friendly and environmentally friendly capture and marine technology. The fishing fleet has had a low rate of CO 2 tax for many years. In addition, the fleet has had a reimbursement scheme which effectively counteracts the incentives for the fee. In the State budget for 2020, Stortinget decided to abolish the low rate and terminate the reimbursement scheme. At the same time, funds were allocated to a temporary compensation scheme to facilitate transition to the industry. The government has proposed a gradual reduction over five years and the compensation is paid in arrears, so that the compensation for 2020 is paid in 2021. Illegal fishing and marketing threaten the blue future. We need better control, and the government is now working with a targeted and long-term reform of resource control. The government believes it is natural that the industry itself contributes to the financing of control — just as most other business supervision in the country. It is also the case that the public already has significant costs related to resource control. The marine industry is an important industry for the future on which the government invests. In 2017, we launched the traffic lighting system, which provides a framework for environmental and sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry. At the same time, the basic interest tax on the industry has been reduced. Instead, a production charge is introduced to give local ring-effects to the aquaculture communities – a very important clarification for the industry. The Maritime Fund allocates the income of the municipal sector from the aquaculture industry. In 2020 and 2021, municipalities will receive a record reward for their efforts to facilitate the industry. In addition, from 2022 onwards, the new production levy will be introduced, where the country’s aquaculture communities can look forward to a time of significant and more predictable revenue from the aquaculture industry. The industry has grown rapidly and is among the main industries of the future for Norway. The government will build up under an industry that is established and operated in an environmentally sound manner, and we are working to ensure predictability and competitive conditions so that growth can continue in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4487	This is a budget agreed by the government party, supported by the Progress Party, so it's quite natural that a lot of attention is focused on fees. When this state budget was approved, it was said that one introduces one quarter of a billion CO 2 tax, but that we should relax, because one should compensate it. One can install the CO 2 fee from 1 January 2021. There is a hard work to do, but the compensation scheme has not yet changed the rotation. Now, one also subtracts 254 million. NOK one has only one million left. kr to administer. Then my questions are: When it comes to pursuing a prudent and proper industrial policy, should one not then ensure that one has the compensation system in place before introducing the levy? What was the reason for the urgency of introducing a CO 2 tax for fisheries? According to my view and that of the Center Party, fish are climate-friendly and good food that was not required to charge fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4503	I can then assure the representative that it is today announced that we have put in place the new compensation scheme, so that the reimbursement can start during the spring. The fishing fleet, which is largely on diesel, has a climate impact, and the CO 2 tax is supposed to be an incentive to invest in new and more climate-friendly technology, also for the fishing fleet. The arrangements for the new compensation scheme have been changed in connection with discussions with industry through the Climate Change Committee. It has been set up, not with regard to the consumption of raw materials, but through distribution based on vessel groups, which we believe will provide opportunities to benefit the industry if you invest in climate-friendly technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4513	Then we learn that the compensation schemes will be put in place between 12 and 18 months after the fee was introduced, so one must have had the trouble to introduce a quarter of a billion dollars in fees on climate-friendly food in the form of wild fish. But a little bit more fundamental to new, future things: does the Council of State later see that one should have worked with this compensation scheme so that the two things could have come in parallel, and that it would have created more acceptance and understanding in the industry than one does now, so when one first takes a billion dollars in extra charges and then lets it go between 12 and 18 months before one comes with a compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4520	I will give the representative the right in: this arrangement should have been in place earlier, but this year has also been quite special. There has been a lot of effort in dealing with the pandemic situation we are in. Ideally, however, the scheme should have been in place earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4525	Another theme here is that the farming industry is doing well, so that the breeding companies paid around 2 billion in the last auction. kr more than it was budgeted for. Of these money, the municipalities of agriculture got zero and the state got everything. Previously, before the government, with the support of the Progress Party, changed this, the municipalities would have got 80 pst. Of this, and the state would have got 20 pst. Then my question is: When it came to 2 billion. kr more than one had expected, and the distribution between municipalities and the state in 2020 and 2021 was based on the original amount, should not have received part of the 2 billion at that time. the crowns that came as a bonus of the auction?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4533	Under this government, measures have been put in place that have a significant ring-effect on aquaculture communities. Before 2018, nothing was paid in reimbursement to the municipalities, if we say it very simply. What the municipalities now receive is also more than they received between 2018 and 2019. For the period 2020-2021, there is a further increase in payment. In addition, a production tax has been introduced that provides lasting, stable revenues. So to some of those people who think this is too small, I would say, the big community should also be balanced. It has been very important to have a strong financial state. The whole of our welfare community is balanced by the fact that this has ring-fenced local effects and that the big community should have some income.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4538	I would like to follow up on this, because now the Council of State talked about what has happened in recent years related to breeding. Here it's entered 2 billion. kr more than expected. I remember that once upon a time it was a fisheries minister who became known because he would not give a single fish to the European Union. Here it is a fisheries minister who will not give a single extra crown to the aquaculture communities. It's local value creation happening. When it comes in 2 billion. kr more than expected, why does one not want to give any of it back to the marine communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4543	Municipalities receive a significant gain and reward for the efforts they have made to facilitate. Under this government, measures have been put in place that have significant local ring-effects, which you had not before. I think there is reason to say that when the representative says that you do not give anything extra to the municipalities, it is quite wrong. A record amount has been paid, and this is also due to the fact that during this government, land-interest taxes have been clarified and depreciated, which in that case would have resulted in less revenues from the auction revenues. The combination with a distribution from the Maritime Fund and a stable, stable production charge to the municipalities will produce very good local ring effects in the future, and it has been very important for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4548	First, the government parties and their supporting party changed the sharing key in the Maritime Fund so that a much smaller share of the 5 billion was obtained. kr which was initially due to arrive. And there's more money coming in. Then one from the government and the state says that all that money keeps you, and then one says to community around the country, that helps these values can be created in collaboration with the industry itself, that they won't get another penny. Why does the government feel that it makes sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4553	When the distribution key was adopted in the context of the revised national budget, it was not known what the auction proceeds were going to bring. So to come afterwards and say that it should have been different – okay, I can understand that you want more resources for your municipality. It's an honest thing, but it'll be a bit like hearing a lottomillionaire say you've won too little. The reality is that there have been significant ring-effects for the municipalities of what this government has done. I think it's very important to facilitate future, new value creation. At that time, incentives are provided through the production charge to facilitate the aquaculture industry. I think that's great.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4558	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4563	A matter that concerns billions of dollars, I think it's worth spending some time on. I register that the Progress Party should be passive in this matter. This is about adding one billion dollars in fees to the fishing industry. A compensation scheme was promised. It's deferred from 12 to 18 months. It was a promise of 1.5 billion. kr to a loan scheme for the package travel company. Bn. 1,3 Check the amount of money withdrawn. It was promised half a billion dollars in support of the package tour operators. About 300 million. kr of them will be withdrawn. It was a promise of 250 million. SEK to the statutory cost of fun kicks, ski lifts, etc., 230 of the millions are withdrawn. The party's reaction to it is to say no, nothing. I thought that at least there was some speed in the Advance Party when they put them in government, but in opposition it seems that the air has gone out completely of the lot. That's the same thing when you're planning on getting one in two years around 5 billion. kr in income from the aquaculture industry, and of the 5 billion. kr takes it as a mine is a fair distribution between the municipality and the state. I think one is too state-friendly already there. But then it turns out it's going to be 2 billion. kr more than what one had budgeted for, and then the state and the finance minister say: we take everything into the treasury, all the two billion. It's not about 80-20 distribution, which the Storting has joined in the past. No, it's 100 pst. to state register, 0 pst. to the aquaculture communities. I think the Progress Party should have taken the time to explain why they are involved in such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4570	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4583	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4595	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-18, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 21 and 22, from Kari Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 23-35, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27, 28 and 33, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The State asks the Government in its work on amendments to Circular T-02/2007 or in the practice of this circular to assume that extensions and new constructions of agricultural buildings on common farms always constitute ‘special reason’ for the State to cover the costs of archaeological excavations.’ [[Compensation of expenditure on archaeological works in the case of small private activities]] Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks for the follow-up to decision No. 707 consider changes to the Property Tax Act that exempt all owners of buildings that are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act from municipal property tax.» [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government of the revised national budget for 2021 to propose a stepping-up plan for the Norwegian cultural memory fund at Røros, which aims to build up the fund to a maximum of 300 million. cents for annual distribution.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4637	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for the follow-up to decision No. 707 assess tax incentives devices that rate the incentives of the private owners in line with their value for protection. [[2019-2020]] The aim is to give the owners who manage the most valuable cultural memories and environments the strongest incentives.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4654	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 30 and 32, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government asks for the follow-up to decision No. 707 assess the exemption or lower rate of VAT for the maintenance of protected cultural memories and environments or a compensation scheme with equivalent devices.’;» [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget for 2021 to explain how Norway, when our country is no longer a member of the World Heritage Committee, will resume efforts to bring Norwegian cultural memories and cultural environments from Viking times into the world heritage list. In particular, it is requested that the government explain how Norway can interact in this context with other countries in the North Atlantic and the Baltic.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4678	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24, 34 and 35, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to develop its own church cultural memory fund linked to increased state efforts in the maintenance of cultural-historical valuable church buildings. The aim should be for the State and the municipalities both to take joint responsibility, thereby triggering a greater overall protection effort.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks that the Culture Memory Fund test project, with subsidies to rolling cultural memories, be extended to the same extent in 2022’.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget for 2021 to propose a permanent subsidy scheme for rolling cultural memories, either on the budget of the Ministry of Transport or by other appropriate means.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4708	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget in 2021 with a plan for the introduction of health monitoring of children in the protection of children throughout the country.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4725	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to lay down a plan for all counties to have at least one separate building protection centre in charge of local museums and/or voluntary cultural memory organisations, and to come back with proposals for state operating support. Where it is natural, two or more counties may cooperate on building protection centres, but in such a way as to ensure that the offer reaches all parts of the counties concerned.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4742	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Twenty-five and thirty-one from the Center Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The Government is asked to pay particular attention to the need for craftsmen with special competence in the field of limestone and stone buildings and to assess how the projects carried out can build up skills and knowledge while recruiting new craftsmen with special knowledge of older Norwegian stone churches.» [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget for 2021 with proposals on how the State can contribute to the realisation of the new world heritage centre at the Urne stave church.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4766	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider allocating the lump-sum benefit to several payments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4781	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests the Government to submit legislative proposals to wind up the cash support scheme from 1 August 2021. Cash support/anticipation may be provided until kindergarten is offered.» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4798	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to convert the incentive scheme for international film and television productions into a system governed by rules and to submit it to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for adequate and relevant control of the establishments by reducing the number of registered religious communities or by other means and for the Stortinge to be brought before it at the latest in the revised national budget for 2021.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e4823	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–18, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the basis for coverage by the Travel Guarantee Fund also includes cancellations due to the corona pandemic that are not refunded or delivered as a result of insolvency.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure funding for volunteer centres through its own entry on the cultural budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for full VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to make the VAT compensation scheme for the construction of sports facilities in the future regulated.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop the reorganisation of the Council of Culture and transfers from 78 entries in the Ministry of Culture’s budget, to ensure that the process is re-examined, with thorough impact assessments and consultation rounds at the relevant bodies, and to return to the Storting with any proposals for approval, as appropriate.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a new application-based scheme for operation and long-term support to the established stage art and dance companies under the Norwegian Cultural Council, outside the Norwegian Cultural Fund, and to return to Stortinget with the facility for such a scheme at the latest in the context of the revised state budget in spring 2021.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian Arts Abroad organisations receive grants under the Ministry of Culture and are not transferred to the cultural council’s portfolio.’ Proposal No 8 reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reintroduce, at the latest, in the revised national budget for 2021, a decision on ‘Definition of key allocations for certain grants’, the wording of which is the same as in previous years.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to follow up the 2009 decision of the Storting to make Arctic Philharmonic a national orchestra and to provide equivalent funding to the other regional orchestras.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of the cultural incentive system so that funds can be converted into compensation if the disease protection situation requires local or national restrictions imposing scaledown or cancellation of events.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate incentives that also meet organisers and suppliers who do not primarily draw their income from public open events.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a roll-out report on film dissemination.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case on the cultural part of the funds and to propose a clean-up, in order to strengthen the broad freedom of culture and to fund other-purpose actors and organisations under the heading of the State budget.’ Proposal No 14 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a quick presentation of a matter on how the state of a spice layer with the municipalities concerned can contribute to the restoration and maintenance of particularly important post-reformer churches in the coming years.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adequately explain whether the large transfer of tasks from the Riksantikvar to the municipalities of the cultural environment has led to an increase in the state appropriations of the county municipalities in a way that is proportionate to the new tasks.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals in the context of the revised national budget for 2021 to ensure that the transfer of tasks from the Riksantikvar to the counties is fully financed.’ Proposal No 17 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an opportunity study for a more permanent model for the dissemination of the cultural environment in Gällestad and the archaeological excavations taking place on site, so that the potential associated with the historical findings and the favourable location of the site is triggered. This work must trigger synergies with the bet on the Viking Age that will take the form of a new Viking Ship House on Bygdøy in Oslo.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose how through Nordic and European cooperation Norway can contribute to raising research and dissemination related to pre-Christian religion and cult practices in what is today the Nordic region and neighbouring areas, including how knowledge environments and dissemination measures can be developed and strengthened.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e9276	Behind the recommendation are the government parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e9290	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e9306	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e11315	A total of 53 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposals Nos.1–36, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party; the proposals No 37-46, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 47 to 51, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 52, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Party of Left and Christian Peoples Proposal No. 53, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 52, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Left and Christian Peoples' Party, replaces the party of rejection. There is a vote on proposal No. 53, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Health Library is a Community solution that ensures good access to the necessary knowledge resources for health professionals and returns, if necessary, to the Stortingen in the revised national budget.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e11352	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47-51, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate access for women in countries where abortion is illegal, to safe and safe abortions in Norway, both by ensuring that health businesses are aware of abortion as an emergency health care and are to be provided free of charge, and by taking the initiative of European cooperation to ensure safe abortion offers for women in countries where abortion is illegal.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan for phase-in of zero-emission calls in the specialist health service.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the bureaucratic system of input-driven financing and return to the Stortinget with proposals for a new funding scheme for hospitals.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and come back to the Storting with proposals to ensure that we have more donors, with the aim of increasing the number of donors, and to assess a system where organ donation is the norm and there is an active need to reserve itself against organ transplantation.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to establish a permanent pay scheme for permanent workers, midwives, logo-peders and orthoptists with full and permanent posts, respectively.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e11392	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37–46, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of removing the obligation on pharmacies to carry homeopathic medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to follow the Health Directorate’s investigation into the introduction of early ultrasound and NIPT in public health and to ensure that the offer is made available to women over 35 years of age and then to continuously extend it to other pregnant women.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that a comprehensive and interdisciplinary treatment offer is built for women with vulvodynia.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop and implement a plan to increase the competence of health professionals in headaches and migraines.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure support for a web portal on women’s health and gender differences in health.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that also diagnosed patients are included in the package course for muscle and skeletal disorders.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that manual therapists are included in line with the chiropractors in establishing a five-year master’s training.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to treat manual therapists in a non-discriminatory manner with the osteopates and naprapaths on the issue of setting up an own authorisation system for these professions.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: «The government asks the Government to propose a public transport subsidy scheme for the elderly in connection with the State budget for 2022.» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that research efforts are prioritised in the primary health service, in global health crises and in antibiotic resistance.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e11457	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–36, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a new action plan on antibiotic resistance and to return to Stortinget before April 2021.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new action plan against antibiotic resistance to propose tools to improve the protection of infectious diseases when they come from abroad.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a notification on the supply of drinking water in Norway.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a selection to be set up as soon as possible to propose a separate sectoral law for water and sewerage services.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review current patient rights and report appropriately to the Stortinget. The review will have to assess the extent to which the rights are used in practice and not merely exist on paper, the possibilities for simplification and coordination of rights, and the number and groups of patients who do not receive the offers they are entitled to.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the next national health and hospital plan must also be an investment plan.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting during the first half of 2021 with an explanation as to whether the regional health businesses have been able to re-enter health cows and after-shaves that have arisen in connection with the coronary apathy.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to be informed and to promote the necessary proposals to ensure that the right to follow-up in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment is legislated.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce several user-guided beds into mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reinstate the notification scheme in the specialist health service, which was terminated in the spring of 2019.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work on antibiotic resistant bacteria to review today’s diagnostic system and propose improvements, aiming at better control of the use of broad spectrum antibiotics in hospitals.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking that all health businesses systematically identify the need for health professionals in the coming years and draw up strategic plans for maintaining and recruiting employees.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the letter of assignment to instruct health professionals to increase the number of apprenticeships for vocational education and training places.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that health businesses offer several training positions to nurses.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that health businesses offer more education positions for midwives.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government of the State budget for 2022 is asked to protect the regional health companies for the ABE reform.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an arrangement whereby a certain number of LIS1 positions in hospitals are linked to ALIS positions in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to liquidate free treatment choices and return to free hospital choice, as well as the use of agreements with non-profit and commercial actors.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The government is asked to establish concrete and measurable requirements for a higher proportion of full-time jobs in health establishments.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that all health enterprises have schemes with their own temporary work pool/employee with permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that hospitals generally employ people in permanent positions in order to ensure their competence and security.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking regional health companies to draw up binding plans for the increased recruitment of apprentices for the health profession.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «By 1 March 2021, the Government asks the Government to raise a case for improvements to the patient travel system.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take action against the Health Vest RHF to ensure that Health Bergen immediately establishes a patient driving agreement that provides safe and reliable transport for patients who need it, in all municipalities of Health Bergen have responsibility for it.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked in its proposals for the State budget for 2022 to end the use of input-driven funding in mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to provide framework funding for maternity care, so that quality is premiered and that adequate staffing is ensured as an emergency offer.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Swedish Government to create the Norwegian Headache Center according to a pattern from the Danish Headache Center.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to terminate the system of neutral VAT in health establishments and to promote it in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken to increase the proportion of patients who receive recommended post-control and follow-up after stroke, in line with the ‘National Professional Guideline on Treatment and Rehabilitation of Brain Stroke’.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a framework to be set up as soon as possible for the compensation of non-profit actors who have provided services on behalf of municipalities and county councils and provide it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that up-to-date guidelines for the treatment of osteoporosis are developed as soon as possible, and that these are incorporated into the services, so that the patient group receives good and adequate treatment.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for increased staffing and more full-time jobs in the care of the elderly.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with employees’ organisations, asked the government to address the overall need for competence in municipal health services.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget in 2021 with a plan for the introduction of health monitoring of children in the protection of children throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking in the context of the implementation of the new action plan on suicide, where it is announced that each individual suicide should be monitored, to ensure that any links between economic challenges, including cuts or rejections of public benefits, and suicide, are also identified.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the reversal of the preaching position profile and post-exposure profile for HIV to blue prescription, with emphasis on availability and minimum bureaucracy.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e11658	There is a vote on proposal No. 52, from the right, the party of progress, the left, and the Christian party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The State budget for 2021 is authorised under: 700 Ministry of Health 1 Operational expenditure 240 716 000 701 E-health, health records etc. 21 Special operational expenditure, may be carried over... 767 228 000 70 Norsk Healthnet SF... 153 733 000 71 Medical quality records... 38 685 000 72 National e-health solutions... 504 884 000 702 Emergency 21 Special operational expenditure, may be carried over, may be used under heading 70... 27 714 000 22 Emergency storage of medicinal products and infectious agents... 1 981 000 000 70 Grants, may be transferred, may be used under item 21... 4 130 000 703 International cooperation 21 Special operational expenditure, may be carried over... 5 929 000 71 International organisations... 60 317 000 72 World Health Organisation Grants [[WHO]]
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e11677	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e12001	Behind the setting are the governmental parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e12015	Furthermore, the President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health and Care of the Storting meeting on 13 October 2020 on the status of the work on the coronary apathy be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e12027	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 732 Regional health establishments 70 Specific grants, may be carried over, may be used under items 21, 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by: 2,941 312,000 ‘... The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e12113	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e12118	And then we'll do it again, so we're sure that we don't end up in a situation where something can change.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e14035	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e14705	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 571 Framework grants to municipalities 60 Builder’s allowance, increased by: 207,000,000 from NOK 143 225 846 000 to NOK 143 432 846 000 ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 571 Framework grants to municipalities 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 572, entry 64, is increased by 1,450,000,000 from NOK 2 484000000 to NOK 3 934000000 ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2020 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 64 Discretionary participation, can be used under a hood. 571, entry 64, is increased by 200000000 from NOK 3382000000 to NOK 3582000000 ‘... The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e16450	I and III will be voted on. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for I.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e16462	It is then added over II. The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e16492	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19709	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19750	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19767	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19779	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19789	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19814	This matter is proposed in the Annex to the minutes. The representative, Ole André Myhrvold, has asked for the floor. Could it apply to predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19821	It can. It's approaching Christmas, so it's the same procedure. [[Laughter]] We need to attach a few words to the letter sent by the Council of State to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, where he tries to interpret the Storting's decision and at the same time explains why it is not followed up. The case is therefore that on 7 December the Stortinget took a decision that any extension of the wolf zone, including the temporary extension of that zone, would have been lifted as of 15 December. Then we record that the Council of State in the letter is taking moments from the big debate into account for its course of action so that it does not remove the temporary zone from that date. Let me stress that in the Storting the decision is the one that applies, not a Council of State interpretation of what and who has said what in the big debate prior to the decision. In the United Kingdom, the decision covers both what is referred to in the debate and any comments. There are decisions that apply – nothing else – even if he has sent a letter to the Presidentship of the Stortinge. The Central Party takes note that the Presidentship of Storting chooses to attach the letter to the protocol, even though we had seen that the letter had been dealt with. But we are now notifying that we are going to present a proposal on the occasion of the matter in connection with the budget debate on Saturday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19834	Then the representative Myhrvold has made the position of the Centre Party clear. No. 1 shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19841	Further references were made: 2nd@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Torstein Tvedt Solberg, Nina Sandberg, Jorodd Asphjell, Marit Arnstad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and Mona Fagerås on the leverage against teaching shortages in school (Document 8:85 S [[196]] [[2020-2021]] Onest. : Sent to the Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2020-12-17.ana.ud227e19850	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
